Thank you very much. Later this evening, we expect the House to pass the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. I’m grateful that Congress is answering my call to deliver these additional $320 billion in relief for the American worker and for small businesses.

At a time when many Americans are enduring significant economic challenges, this bill will help small businesses to keep millions of workers on the payroll. You see states are starting to open up now, and it’s very exciting to see. I think it’s very awe-inspiring. We’re coming out of it, and we’re coming out of it well.

And we’re—really, I’m very happy the governors have been—the governors, really, have been doing a really good job working with us, and it’s—it’s, really, pretty impressive to see. I’ve spoken to numerous leaders of countries over the last 48 hours, and they are saying we’re leading the way. We’re really leading the way in so many different ways.

I’m also very pleased that Harvard—as you know, it’s Harvard and Stanford and Princeton and numerous other universities and colleges, and also large businesses have sent funds back to us. And in some cases, I stopped funds that I looked at. And we are pleased to report that the funds have either not gone out or it’s about $350 million, and they’ve either not gone out or we’ve renegotiated it and they’re not getting them.

So—and it’s—in a couple of cases, they’re sending them back and sending them back immediately. So I think it was very nice. I want to thank Harvard in particular. They acted very quickly and decisively. And they agreed, when they heard the facts, that they should not be getting it. So we appreciate it very much from Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, and other institutions.

The bill also includes $30 billion to support small lending institutions serving distressed communities, helping countless African American and Hispanic American small businesses.

As we continue our battle against the virus, the data and facts on the ground suggest that we’re making great progress. In 23 states, new cases have declined in the peak—week. Forty percent of American counties have also seen a rapid decline in new cases. Forty-six states reported drop in patients showing coronavirus-like symptoms. That’s a big number.

To keep America gaining momentum, every citizen needs to maintain the vigilance. And we all understand that very well; we’ve gone over it many, many times. This includes practicing good hygiene, maintaining social distance, and the voluntary use of face covering.

A safe and phased reopening of our economy—it’s very exciting, but it does not mean that we are letting down our guard at all, in any way. On the contrary, continued diligence is an essential part of our strategy to get our country back to work, to take our country back. We’re winning this, and we’re going to win it, and we’re going to keep watching. We’re going to watch very closely for the invisible enemy.

With each passing day, we’re learning more and more about this enemy. The scientists at DHS have released a report offering a number of insights about how the virus reacts to different temperatures, climates, and surfaces. The findings confirm that the virus survives better in cold or in drier environments and does less well in warmer and more humid environments.

I have to say that, very excitingly, we’re going to have somebody up; Bill will be up in just a little while. It was a great report you gave. And he’s going to be talking about how the virus reacts in sunlight. Wait until you hear the numbers. You won’t even believe them.

U.S. trials of the COVID-19 have been going on and have been approved in the United States, Germany, UK, and China. That’s big news. And we’re—a lot of trials are going on. We have a lot of great, brilliant minds working on this, both from the standpoint of a vaccine and therapeutics.

We must be careful in all conditions, but we will—we will get this done. We’re very close to a vaccine. Unfortunately, we’re not very close to testing because when the testing starts, it takes a period of time. But we’ll get it done.

And I want to thank the head of DHS Science and Technology, Bill Bryan, for what he’s going to be doing and what he’s going to be saying and the report that he’s about to give. I think it’s going to be something that nobody has ever heard. It’ll be brand-new information and very important information.

My administration continues to leverage the Defense Production Act to dramatically increase the manufacture and delivery of critical medical supplies. We finalized three contracts to produce 39 million more N95 masks in 90 days. And as you know, we’re also using a sterilization process. Some great equipment that will sterilize the masks up to 20 times per mask. So that’s like ordering 20 times more masks. And it’s working very well.

We just want the hospitals and the institutions, where it is, to use it. A lot of people don’t use it. They’re so used to getting a new mask, they don’t want to use it. They want to go and immediately get a new one. We’re asking them to use the sterilization process. Every bit as good—up to 20 times. Think of that.

In addition to ramping up our domestic assembly lines, we also have airlifted nearly 750 million pieces of personal protective equipment into the United States through our Project Airbridge, which has been an incredible thing to watch. It’s really a military operation.

The Vice President is now providing each governor with an exhaustive count[y]-by-county breakdown of the privately distributed personal protection. And this is equipment and things that are incredible. It’s personal protective equipment. It’s incredible, and it’s all brand new and at the highest level. We’re getting only the highest level. And also, we’re looking at essential gear within their states, and it’s being delivered to different states quickly and as we speak.

This way, the governor should know exactly what’s being delivered through a private-sector supply chain within their states, as well as through the Project Airbridge. We’re trying to get it immediately from the plane to the state. When we can’t do that, we bring it into our facilities and get it to the governors. And we’re getting them fast, and we’re notifying them very strongly so they know it’s there. Governors can use this information to quickly ensure that they get materials where and when they are needed.

Today, I also want to extend my special thanks to our nation’s incredible county emergency management teams who have been working relentlessly for weeks around the clock, end on end, to serve their communities, help distribute critical supplies, and save countless American lives. We salute these heroic officials on the frontlines.

As we continue to develop potential therapies, the FDA has recently begun a national effort to expand access to convalescent plasma donated from the blood of those who have recovered from the virus. The blood of these donors contains antibodies that can potentially reduce the severity of the illness in those who are sick—and frankly, those that are very sick. Nearly 3,000 patients are now enrolled in the Expanded Access Program, receiving transfusions nationwide.

And I want to thank all of the people that recovered, for what they’ve done. They—as I said yesterday, they raise their hand when they barely can walk, and they’re saying, “I want to donate blood. I want to donate whatever it is that you want, because we want to help people.” It’s really quite incredible.

Convalescent plasma will also be used to manufacture a concentrated antibody treatment that does not have to be matched with a particular blood type. This concentrated antibody treatment could be used as a preventative measure to keep healthcare workers and other high-risk populations from contracting the virus in the first place. A very big deal.

Clinical trials of these products are slated to begin within weeks, and we can maybe have a fairly quick solution. I urge Americans to get in there and keep doing what you’re doing, because again, we want those people recovering or recovered from coronavirus to contact their local blood and plasma donation center to learn how they can help. And they’ve been so great, and I just appreciate it.

My administration has also partnered with leading—and we have really been establishing some great partnerships with leading technology companies and scientific journals to create a database of 52,000 scholarly articles on the virus that can be analyzed by artificial intelligence.

Top AI experts are now using this wealth of data to gain insights into potential therapies. And we’re collaborating with tech firms, universities, and our national labs to harness American supercomputers in the search for treatments and vaccines. That search is going on, and it’s being—I think you’ll see in the future—you’ll see it’s very successful. Ultimately, it’ll be a tremendous success. Great progress is being made at a rapid pace—a pace like no other.

We have every hope that with the full might and resources of American science and technology, and with the courage and devotion of the American people who have been so incredible, we will end this plague, and together we will restore the full measure of American strength and power and prosperity.

Our country is going to do fantastically well. You see what’s going on. There is a pent-up demand in our country to get it back right where it was and maybe even better, and that’s what’s going to happen.

So with that, I’d like to ask Mike Pence to come up—Vice President. Say a few words please, Mike.
