"Thank you, Lester. Our jobs are fleeing the country. They're going to Mexico. They're going to many other countries. You look at what China is doing to our country in terms of making our product. They're devaluing their currency, and there's nobody in our government to fight them. And we have a very good fight. And we have a winning fight. Because they're using our country as a piggy bank to rebuild China, and many other countries are doing the same thing. So we're losing our good jobs, so many of them. When you look at what's happening in Mexico, a friend of mine who builds plants said it's the eighth wonder of the world. They're building some of the biggest plants anywhere in the world, some of the most sophisticated, some of the best plants. With the United States, as he said, not so much. So Ford is leaving. You see that, their small car division leaving. Thousands of jobs leaving Michigan, leaving Ohio. They're all leaving. And we can't allow it to happen anymore. As far as child care is concerned and so many other things, I think Hillary and I agree on that. We probably disagree a little bit as to numbers and amounts and what we're going to do, but perhaps we'll be talking about that later. But we have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our companies from leaving the United States and, with it, firing all of their people. All you have to do is take a look at Carrier air conditioning in Indianapolis. They left -- fired 1,400 people. They're going to Mexico. So many hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this. We cannot let it happen. Under my plan, I'll be reducing taxes tremendously, from 35 percent to 15 percent for companies, small and big businesses. That's going to be a job creator like we haven't seen since Ronald Reagan. It's going to be a beautiful thing to watch. Companies will come. They will build. They will expand. New companies will start. And I look very, very much forward to doing it. We have to renegotiate our trade deals, and we have to stop these countries from stealing our companies and our jobs. Well, for one thing -- and before we start on that -- my father gave me a very small loan in 1975, and I built it into a company that's worth many, many billions of dollars, with some of the greatest assets in the world, and I say that only because that's the kind of thinking that our country needs. Our country's in deep trouble. We don't know what we're doing when it comes to devaluations and all of these countries all over the world, especially China. They're the best, the best ever at it. What they're doing to us is a very, very sad thing. So we have to do that. We have to renegotiate our trade deals. And, Lester, they're taking our jobs, they're giving incentives, they're doing things that, frankly, we don't do. Let me give you the example of Mexico. They have a VAT tax. We're on a different system. When we sell into Mexico, there's a tax. When they sell in -- automatic, 16 percent, approximately. When they sell into us, there's no tax. It's a defective agreement. It's been defective for a long time, many years, but the politicians haven't done anything about it. Now, in all fairness to Secretary Clinton -- yes, is that OK? Good. I want you to be very happy. It's very important to me. But in all fairness to Secretary Clinton, when she started talking about this, it was really very recently. She's been doing this for 30 years. And why hasn't she made the agreements better? The NAFTA agreement is defective. Just because of the tax and many other reasons, but just because of the fact... Secretary Clinton and others, politicians, should have been doing this for years, not right now, because of the fact that we've created a movement. They should have been doing this for years. What's happened to our jobs and our country and our economy generally is -- look, we owe $20 trillion. We cannot do it any longer, Lester. Well, the first thing you do is don't let the jobs leave. The companies are leaving. I could name, I mean, there are thousands of them. They're leaving, and they're leaving in bigger numbers than ever. And what you do is you say, fine, you want to go to Mexico or some other country, good luck. We wish you a lot of luck. But if you think you're going to make your air conditioners or your cars or your cookies or whatever you make and bring them into our country without a tax, you're wrong. And once you say you're going to have to tax them coming in, and our politicians never do this, because they have special interests and the special interests want those companies to leave, because in many cases, they own the companies. So what I'm saying is, we can stop them from leaving. We have to stop them from leaving. And that's a big, big factor. That's called business, by the way. I did not. I did not. I do not say that. I do not say that. She talks about solar panels. We invested in a solar company, our country. That was a disaster. They lost plenty of money on that one. Now, look, I'm a great believer in all forms of energy, but we're putting a lot of people out of work. Our energy policies are a disaster. Our country is losing so much in terms of energy, in terms of paying off our debt. You can't do what you're looking to do with $20 trillion in debt. The Obama administration, from the time they've come in, is over 230 years' worth of debt, and he's topped it. He's doubled it in a course of almost eight years, seven-and-a-half years, to be semi- exact. So I will tell you this. We have to do a much better job at keeping our jobs. And we have to do a much better job at giving companies incentives to build new companies or to expand, because they're not doing it. And all you have to do is look at Michigan and look at Ohio and look at all of these places where so many of their jobs and their companies are just leaving, they're gone. And, Hillary, I'd just ask you this. You've been doing this for 30 years. Why are you just thinking about these solutions right now? For 30 years, you've been doing it, and now you're just starting to think of solutions. I will bring -- excuse me. I will bring back jobs. You can't bring back jobs. Yeah, for 30 years. Well, he approved NAFTA... He approved NAFTA, which is the single worst trade deal ever approved in this country. But you haven't done it in 30 years or 26 years or any number you want to... You haven't done it. You haven't done it. Excuse me. Your husband signed NAFTA, which was one of the worst things that ever happened to the manufacturing industry. You go to New England, you go to Ohio, Pennsylvania, you go anywhere you want, Secretary Clinton, and you will see devastation where manufacture is down 30, 40, sometimes 50 percent. NAFTA is the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere, but certainly ever signed in this country. And now you want to approve Trans-Pacific Partnership. You were totally in favor of it. Then you heard what I was saying, how bad it is, and you said, I can't win that debate. But you know that if you did win, you would approve that, and that will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing will ever top NAFTA. You called it the gold standard. You called it the gold standard of trade deals. You said it's the finest deal you've ever seen. And then you heard what I said about it, and all of a sudden you were against it. Not. So is it President Obama's fault? Is it President Obama's fault? Secretary, is it President Obama's fault? Because he's pushing it. But you have no plan. Secretary, you have no plan. That's about all you've... You are going to approve one of the biggest tax cuts in history. You are going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. You are going to drive business out. Your regulations are a disaster, and you're going to increase regulations all over the place. And by the way, my tax cut is the biggest since Ronald Reagan. I'm very proud of it. It will create tremendous numbers of new jobs. But regulations, you are going to regulate these businesses out of existence. When I go around -- Lester, I tell you this, I've been all over. And when I go around, despite the tax cut, the thing -- the things that business as in people like the most is the fact that I'm cutting regulation. You have regulations on top of regulations, and new companies cannot form and old companies are going out of business. And you want to increase the regulations and make them even worse. I'm going to cut regulations. I'm going to cut taxes big league, and you're going to raise taxes big league, end of story. Facts. And take a look at mine, also, and you'll see. Well, could I just finish -- I think I... I think I should -- you go to her website, and you take a look at her website. She's going to raise taxes $1.3 trillion. And look at her website. You know what? It's no difference than this. She's telling us how to fight ISIS. Just go to her website. She tells you how to fight ISIS on her website. I don't think General Douglas MacArthur would like that too much. No, no, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do. See, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do. No wonder you've been fighting -- no wonder you've been fighting ISIS your entire adult life. Well, I'm really calling for major jobs, because the wealthy are going create tremendous jobs. They're going to expand their companies. They're going to do a tremendous job. I'm getting rid of the carried interest provision. And if you really look, it's not a tax -- it's really not a great thing for the wealthy. It's a great thing for the middle class. It's a great thing for companies to expand. And when these people are going to put billions and billions of dollars into companies, and when they're going to bring $2.5 trillion back from overseas, where they can't bring the money back, because politicians like Secretary Clinton won't allow them to bring the money back, because the taxes are so onerous, and the bureaucratic red tape, so what -- is so bad. So what they're doing is they're leaving our country, and they're, believe it or not, leaving because taxes are too high and because some of them have lots of money outside of our country. And instead of bringing it back and putting the money to work, because they can't work out a deal to -- and everybody agrees it should be brought back. Instead of that, they're leaving our country to get their money, because they can't bring their money back into our country, because of bureaucratic red tape, because they can't get together. Because we have -- we have a president that can't sit them around a table and get them to approve something. And here's the thing. Republicans and Democrats agree that this should be done, $2.5 trillion. I happen to think it's double that. It's probably $5 trillion that we can't bring into our country, Lester. And with a little leadership, you'd get it in here very quickly, and it could be put to use on the inner cities and lots of other things, and it would be beautiful. But we have no leadership. And honestly, that starts with Secretary Clinton. Why not? There's nothing crazy about not letting our companies bring their money back into their country. Yes. Then you didn't read it. Who gave it that name? The first I've -- who gave it that name? How much? How much for my family? Lester, how much? Typical politician. All talk, no action. Sounds good, doesn't work. Never going to happen. Our country is suffering because people like Secretary Clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what's going on. Now, look, we have the worst revival of an economy since the Great Depression. And believe me: We're in a bubble right now. And the only thing that looks good is the stock market, but if you raise interest rates even a little bit, that's going to come crashing down. We are in a big, fat, ugly bubble. And we better be awfully careful. And we have a Fed that's doing political things. This Janet Yellen of the Fed. The Fed is doing political -- by keeping the interest rates at this level. And believe me: The day Obama goes off, and he leaves, and goes out to the golf course for the rest of his life to play golf, when they raise interest rates, you're going to see some very bad things happen, because the Fed is not doing their job. The Fed is being more political than Secretary Clinton. I don't mind releasing -- I'm under a routine audit. And it'll be released. And -- as soon as the audit's finished, it will be released. But you will learn more about Donald Trump by going down to the federal elections, where I filed a 104-page essentially financial statement of sorts, the forms that they have. It shows income -- in fact, the income -- I just looked today -- the income is filed at $694 million for this past year, $694 million. If you would have told me I was going to make that 15 or 20 years ago, I would have been very surprised. But that's the kind of thinking that our country needs. When we have a country that's doing so badly, that's being ripped off by every single country in the world, it's the kind of thinking that our country needs, because everybody -- Lester, we have a trade deficit with all of the countries that we do business with, of almost $800 billion a year. You know what that is? That means, who's negotiating these trade deals? We have people that are political hacks negotiating our trade deals. Excuse me. Well, I told you, I will release them as soon as the audit. Look, I've been under audit almost for 15 years. I know a lot of wealthy people that have never been audited. I said, do you get audited? I get audited almost every year. And in a way, I should be complaining. I'm not even complaining. I don't mind it. It's almost become a way of life. I get audited by the IRS. But other people don't. I will say this. We have a situation in this country that has to be taken care of. I will release my tax returns -- against my lawyer's wishes -- when she releases her 33,000 e-mails that have been deleted. As soon as she releases them, I will release. I will release my tax returns. And that's against -- my lawyers, they say, ""Don't do it."" I will tell you this. No -- in fact, watching shows, they're reading the papers. Almost every lawyer says, you don't release your returns until the audit's complete. When the audit's complete, I'll do it. But I would go against them if she releases her e-mails. It's not negotiable, no. Let her release the e-mails. Why did she delete 33,000... That makes me smart. That was more than a mistake. That was done purposely. OK? That was not a mistake. That was done purposely. When you have your staff taking the Fifth Amendment, taking the Fifth so they're not prosecuted, when you have the man that set up the illegal server taking the Fifth, I think it's disgraceful. And believe me, this country thinks it's -- really thinks it's disgraceful, also. As far as my tax returns, you don't learn that much from tax returns. That I can tell you. You learn a lot from financial disclosure. And you should go down and take a look at that. The other thing, I'm extremely underleveraged. The report that said $650 -- which, by the way, a lot of friends of mine that know my business say, boy, that's really not a lot of money. It's not a lot of money relative to what I had. The buildings that were in question, they said in the same report, which was -- actually, it wasn't even a bad story, to be honest with you, but the buildings are worth $3.9 billion. And the $650 isn't even on that. But it's not $650. It's much less than that. But I could give you a list of banks, I would -- if that would help you, I would give you a list of banks. These are very fine institutions, very fine banks. I could do that very quickly. I am very underleveraged. I have a great company. I have a tremendous income. And the reason I say that is not in a braggadocios way. It's because it's about time that this country had somebody running it that has an idea about money. When we have $20 trillion in debt, and our country's a mess, you know, it's one thing to have $20 trillion in debt and our roads are good and our bridges are good and everything's in great shape, our airports. Our airports are like from a third world country. You land at LaGuardia, you land at Kennedy, you land at LAX, you land at Newark, and you come in from Dubai and Qatar and you see these incredible -- you come in from China, you see these incredible airports, and you land -- we've become a third world country. So the worst of all things has happened. We owe $20 trillion, and we're a mess. We haven't even started. And we've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, according to a report that I just saw. Whether it's 6 or 5, but it looks like it's 6, $6 trillion in the Middle East, we could have rebuilt our country twice. And it's really a shame. And it's politicians like Secretary Clinton that have caused this problem. Our country has tremendous problems. We're a debtor nation. We're a serious debtor nation. And we have a country that needs new roads, new tunnels, new bridges, new airports, new schools, new hospitals. And we don't have the money, because it's been squandered on so many of your ideas. It would be squandered, too, believe me. Maybe he didn't do a good job and I was unsatisfied with his work... Which our country should do, too. Wrong. Wrong. So, yeah, I think -- I do think it's time. Look, it's all words, it's all sound bites. I built an unbelievable company. Some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world, real estate assets anywhere in the world, beyond the United States, in Europe, lots of different places. It's an unbelievable company. But on occasion, four times, we used certain laws that are there. And when Secretary Clinton talks about people that didn't get paid, first of all, they did get paid a lot, but taken advantage of the laws of the nation. Now, if you want to change the laws, you've been there a long time, change the laws. But I take advantage of the laws of the nation because I'm running a company. My obligation right now is to do well for myself, my family, my employees, for my companies. And that's what I do. But what she doesn't say is that tens of thousands of people that are unbelievably happy and that love me. I'll give you an example. We're just opening up on Pennsylvania Avenue right next to the White House, so if I don't get there one way, I'm going to get to Pennsylvania Avenue another. But we're opening the Old Post Office. Under budget, ahead of schedule, saved tremendous money. I'm a year ahead of schedule. And that's what this country should be doing. We build roads and they cost two and three and four times what they're supposed to cost. We buy products for our military and they come in at costs that are so far above what they were supposed to be, because we don't have people that know what they're doing. When we look at the budget, the budget is bad to a large extent because we have people that have no idea as to what to do and how to buy. The Trump International is way under budget and way ahead of schedule. And we should be able to do that for our country. Well, first of all, Secretary Clinton doesn't want to use a couple of words, and that's law and order. And we need law and order. If we don't have it, we're not going to have a country. And when I look at what's going on in Charlotte, a city I love, a city where I have investments, when I look at what's going on throughout various parts of our country, whether it's -- I mean, I can just keep naming them all day long -- we need law and order in our country. I just got today the, as you know, the endorsement of the Fraternal Order of Police, we just -- just came in. We have endorsements from, I think, almost every police group, very -- I mean, a large percentage of them in the United States. We have a situation where we have our inner cities, African- Americans, Hispanics are living in he'll because it's so dangerous. You walk down the street, you get shot. In Chicago, they've had thousands of shootings, thousands since January 1st. Thousands of shootings. And I'm saying, where is this? Is this a war-torn country? What are we doing? And we have to stop the violence. We have to bring back law and order. In a place like Chicago, where thousands of people have been killed, thousands over the last number of years, in fact, almost 4,000 have been killed since Barack Obama became president, over -- almost 4,000 people in Chicago have been killed. We have to bring back law and order. Now, whether or not in a place like Chicago you do stop and frisk, which worked very well, Mayor Giuliani is here, worked very well in New York. It brought the crime rate way down. But you take the gun away from criminals that shouldn't be having it. We have gangs roaming the street. And in many cases, they're illegally here, illegal immigrants. And they have guns. And they shoot people. And we have to be very strong. And we have to be very vigilant. We have to be -- we have to know what we're doing. Right now, our police, in many cases, are afraid to do anything. We have to protect our inner cities, because African-American communities are being decimated by crime, decimated. No, you're wrong. It went before a judge, who was a very against-police judge. It was taken away from her. And our mayor, our new mayor, refused to go forward with the case. They would have won an appeal. If you look at it, throughout the country, there are many places where it's allowed. No, the argument is that we have to take the guns away from these people that have them and they are bad people that shouldn't have them. These are felons. These are people that are bad people that shouldn't be -- when you have 3,000 shootings in Chicago from January 1st, when you have 4,000 people killed in Chicago by guns, from the beginning of the presidency of Barack Obama, his hometown, you have to have stop-and-frisk. You need more police. You need a better community, you know, relation. You don't have good community relations in Chicago. It's terrible. I have property there. It's terrible what's going on in Chicago. But when you look -- and Chicago's not the only -- you go to Ferguson, you go to so many different places. You need better relationships. I agree with Secretary Clinton on this. You need better relationships between the communities and the police, because in some cases, it's not good. But you look at Dallas, where the relationships were really studied, the relationships were really a beautiful thing, and then five police officers were killed one night very violently. So there's some bad things going on. Some really bad things. But we need -- Lester, we need law and order. And we need law and order in the inner cities, because the people that are most affected by what's happening are African-American and Hispanic people. And it's very unfair to them what our politicians are allowing to happen. Ugh. I'd like to respond to that. First of all, I agree, and a lot of people even within my own party want to give certain rights to people on watch lists and no- fly lists. I agree with you. When a person is on a watch list or a no-fly list, and I have the endorsement of the NRA, which I'm very proud of. These are very, very good people, and they're protecting the Second Amendment. But I think we have to look very strongly at no-fly lists and watch lists. And when people are on there, even if they shouldn't be on there, we'll help them, we'll help them legally, we'll help them get off. But I tend to agree with that quite strongly. I do want to bring up the fact that you were the one that brought up the words super-predator about young black youth. And that's a term that I think was a -- it's -- it's been horribly met, as you know. I think you've apologized for it. But I think it was a terrible thing to say. And when it comes to stop-and-frisk, you know, you're talking about takes guns away. Well, I'm talking about taking guns away from gangs and people that use them. And I don't think -- I really don't think you disagree with me on this, if you want to know the truth. I think maybe there's a political reason why you can't say it, but I really don't believe -- in New York City, stop-and-frisk, we had 2,200 murders, and stop-and-frisk brought it down to 500 murders. Five hundred murders is a lot of murders. It's hard to believe, 500 is like supposed to be good? But we went from 2,200 to 500. And it was continued on by Mayor Bloomberg. And it was terminated by current mayor. But stop-and- frisk had a tremendous impact on the safety of New York City. Tremendous beyond belief. So when you say it has no impact, it really did. It had a very, very big impact. No, you're wrong. You're wrong. Murders are up. All right. You check it. I'd like to just respond, if I might. I'd just like to respond. I will. Look, the African-American community has been let down by our politicians. They talk good around election time, like right now, and after the election, they said, see ya later, I'll see you in four years. The African-American community -- because -- look, the community within the inner cities has been so badly treated. They've been abused and used in order to get votes by Democrat politicians, because that's what it is. They've controlled these communities for up to 100 years. And I will tell you, you look at the inner cities -- and I just left Detroit, and I just left Philadelphia, and I just -- you know, you've seen me, I've been all over the place. You decided to stay home, and that's OK. But I will tell you, I've been all over. And I've met some of the greatest people I'll ever meet within these communities. And they are very, very upset with what their politicians have told them and what their politicians have done. I'll tell you very -- well, just very simple to say. Sidney Blumenthal works for the campaign and close -- very close friend of Secretary Clinton. And her campaign manager, Patti Doyle, went to -- during the campaign, her campaign against President Obama, fought very hard. And you can go look it up, and you can check it out. And if you look at CNN this past week, Patti Solis Doyle was on Wolf Blitzer saying that this happened. Blumenthal sent McClatchy, highly respected reporter at McClatchy, to Kenya to find out about it. They were pressing it very hard. She failed to get the birth certificate. When I got involved, I didn't fail. I got him to give the birth certificate. So I'm satisfied with it. And I'll tell you why I'm satisfied with it. Because I want to get on to defeating ISIS, because I want to get on to creating jobs, because I want to get on to having a strong border, because I want to get on to things that are very important to me and that are very important to the country. Yeah. Well, nobody was pressing it, nobody was caring much about it. I figured you'd ask the question tonight, of course. But nobody was caring much about it. But I was the one that got him to produce the birth certificate. And I think I did a good job. Secretary Clinton also fought it. I mean, you know -- now, everybody in mainstream is going to say, oh, that's not true. Look, it's true. Sidney Blumenthal sent a reporter -- you just have to take a look at CNN, the last week, the interview with your former campaign manager. And she was involved. But just like she can't bring back jobs, she can't produce. Well, it was very -- I say nothing. I say nothing, because I was able to get him to produce it. He should have produced it a long time before. I say nothing. But let me just tell you. When you talk about healing, I think that I've developed very, very good relationships over the last little while with the African-American community. I think you can see that. And I feel that they really wanted me to come to that conclusion. And I think I did a great job and a great service not only for the country, but even for the president, in getting him to produce his birth certificate. I would love to respond. First of all, I got to watch in preparing for this some of your debates against Barack Obama. You treated him with terrible disrespect. And I watched the way you talk now about how lovely everything is and how wonderful you are. It doesn't work that way. You were after him, you were trying to -- you even sent out or your campaign sent out pictures of him in a certain garb, very famous pictures. I don't think you can deny that. But just last week, your campaign manager said it was true. So when you tried to act holier than thou, it really doesn't work. It really doesn't. Now, as far as the lawsuit, yes, when I was very young, I went into my father's company, had a real estate company in Brooklyn and Queens, and we, along with many, many other companies throughout the country -- it was a federal lawsuit -- were sued. We settled the suit with zero -- with no admission of guilt. It was very easy to do. I notice you bring that up a lot. And, you know, I also notice the very nasty commercials that you do on me in so many different ways, which I don't do on you. Maybe I'm trying to save the money. But, frankly, I look -- I look at that, and I say, isn't that amazing? Because I settled that lawsuit with no admission of guilt, but that was a lawsuit brought against many real estate firms, and it's just one of those things. I'll go one step further. In Palm Beach, Florida, tough community, a brilliant community, a wealthy community, probably the wealthiest community there is in the world, I opened a club, and really got great credit for it. No discrimination against African- Americans, against Muslims, against anybody. And it's a tremendously successful club. And I'm so glad I did it. And I have been given great credit for what I did. And I'm very, very proud of it. And that's the way I feel. That is the true way I feel. I do want to say that I was just endorsed -- and more are coming next week -- it will be over 200 admirals, many of them here -- admirals and generals endorsed me to lead this country. That just happened, and many more are coming. And I'm very proud of it. In addition, I was just endorsed by ICE. They've never endorsed anybody before on immigration. I was just endorsed by ICE. I was just recently endorsed -- 16,500 Border Patrol agents. So when Secretary Clinton talks about this, I mean, I'll take the admirals and I'll take the generals any day over the political hacks that I see that have led our country so brilliantly over the last 10 years with their knowledge. OK? Because look at the mess that we're in. Look at the mess that we're in. As far as the cyber, I agree to parts of what Secretary Clinton said. We should be better than anybody else, and perhaps we're not. I don't think anybody knows it was Russia that broke into the DNC. She's saying Russia, Russia, Russia, but I don't -- maybe it was. I mean, it could be Russia, but it could also be China. It could also be lots of other people. It also could be somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds, OK? You don't know who broke in to DNC. But what did we learn with DNC? We learned that Bernie Sanders was taken advantage of by your people, by Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Look what happened to her. But Bernie Sanders was taken advantage of. That's what we learned. Now, whether that was Russia, whether that was China, whether it was another country, we don't know, because the truth is, under President Obama we've lost control of things that we used to have control over. We came in with the Internet, we came up with the Internet, and I think Secretary Clinton and myself would agree very much, when you look at what ISIS is doing with the Internet, they're beating us at our own game. ISIS. So we have to get very, very tough on cyber and cyber warfare. It is -- it is a huge problem. I have a son. He's 10 years old. He has computers. He is so good with these computers, it's unbelievable. The security aspect of cyber is very, very tough. And maybe it's hardly doable. But I will say, we are not doing the job we should be doing. But that's true throughout our whole governmental society. We have so many things that we have to do better, Lester, and certainly cyber is one of them. Well, first I have to say one thing, very important. Secretary Clinton is talking about taking out ISIS. ""We will take out ISIS."" Well, President Obama and Secretary Clinton created a vacuum the way they got out of Iraq, because they got out -- what, they shouldn't have been in, but once they got in, the way they got out was a disaster. And ISIS was formed. So she talks about taking them out. She's been doing it a long time. She's been trying to take them out for a long time. But they wouldn't have even been formed if they left some troops behind, like 10,000 or maybe something more than that. And then you wouldn't have had them. Or, as I've been saying for a long time, and I think you'll agree, because I said it to you once, had we taken the oil -- and we should have taken the oil -- ISIS would not have been able to form either, because the oil was their primary source of income. And now they have the oil all over the place, including the oil -- a lot of the oil in Libya, which was another one of her disasters. Wrong. Wrong. Wrong. Well, I have to respond. The secretary said very strongly about working with -- we've been working with them for many years, and we have the greatest mess anyone's ever seen. You look at the Middle East, it's a total mess. Under your direction, to a large extent. But you look at the Middle East, you started the Iran deal, that's another beauty where you have a country that was ready to fall, I mean, they were doing so badly. They were choking on the sanctions. And now they're going to be actually probably a major power at some point pretty soon, the way they're going. But when you look at NATO, I was asked on a major show, what do you think of NATO? And you have to understand, I'm a businessperson. I did really well. But I have common sense. And I said, well, I'll tell you. I haven't given lots of thought to NATO. But two things. Number one, the 28 countries of NATO, many of them aren't paying their fair share. Number two -- and that bothers me, because we should be asking -- we're defending them, and they should at least be paying us what they're supposed to be paying by treaty and contract. And, number two, I said, and very strongly, NATO could be obsolete, because -- and I was very strong on this, and it was actually covered very accurately in the New York Times, which is unusual for the New York Times, to be honest -- but I said, they do not focus on terror. And I was very strong. And I said it numerous times. And about four months ago, I read on the front page of the Wall Street Journal that NATO is opening up a major terror division. And I think that's great. And I think we should get -- because we pay approximately 73 percent of the cost of NATO. It's a lot of money to protect other people. But I'm all for NATO. But I said they have to focus on terror, also. And they're going to do that. And that was -- believe me -- I'm sure I'm not going to get credit for it -- but that was largely because of what I was saying and my criticism of NATO. I think we have to get NATO to go into the Middle East with us, in addition to surrounding nations, and we have to knock the hell out of ISIS, and we have to do it fast, when ISIS formed in this vacuum created by Barack Obama and Secretary Clinton. And believe me, you were the ones that took out the troops. Not only that, you named the day. They couldn't believe it. They sat back probably and said, I can't believe it. They said... No, wait a minute. When they formed, when they formed, this is something that never should have happened. It should have never happened. Now, you're talking about taking out ISIS. But you were there, and you were secretary of state when it was a little infant. Now it's in over 30 countries. And you're going to stop them? I don't think so. I did not support the war in Iraq. That is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her, because she -- frankly, I think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media. Just -- would you like to hear... Wait a minute. I was against the war in Iraq. Just so you put it out. The record does not show that. The record shows that I'm right. When I did an interview with Howard Stern, very lightly, first time anyone's asked me that, I said, very lightly, I don't know, maybe, who knows? Essentially. I then did an interview with Neil Cavuto. We talked about the economy is more important. I then spoke to Sean Hannity, which everybody refuses to call Sean Hannity. I had numerous conversations with Sean Hannity at Fox. And Sean Hannity said -- and he called me the other day -- and I spoke to him about it -- he said you were totally against the war, because he was for the war. And when he -- excuse me. And that was before the war started. Sean Hannity said very strongly to me and other people -- he's willing to say it, but nobody wants to call him. I was against the war. He said, you used to have fights with me, because Sean was in favor of the war. And I understand that side, also, not very much, because we should have never been there. But nobody called Sean Hannity. And then they did an article in a major magazine, shortly after the war started. I think in '04. But they did an article which had me totally against the war in Iraq. And one of your compatriots said, you know, whether it was before or right after, Trump was definitely -- because if you read this article, there's no doubt. But if somebody -- and I'll ask the press -- if somebody would call up Sean Hannity, this was before the war started. He and I used to have arguments about the war. I said, it's a terrible and a stupid thing. It's going to destabilize the Middle East. And that's exactly what it's done. It's been a disaster. No, no. You didn't hear what I said. Well, I have much better judgment than she does. There's no question about that. I also have a much better temperament than she has, you know? I have a much better -- she spent -- let me tell you -- she spent hundreds of millions of dollars on an advertising -- you know, they get Madison Avenue into a room, they put names -- oh, temperament, let's go after -- I think my strongest asset, maybe by far, is my temperament. I have a winning temperament. I know how to win. She does not have a... Wait. The AFL-CIO the other day, behind the blue screen, I don't know who you were talking to, Secretary Clinton, but you were totally out of control. I said, there's a person with a temperament that's got a problem. That would not start a war. No, they were taunting us. Wrong. It's lies. That line's getting a little bit old, I must say. I would like to... It's not an accurate one at all. It's not an accurate one. So I just want to give a lot of things -- and just to respond. I agree with her on one thing. The single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament, nuclear weapons, not global warming, like you think and your -- your president thinks. Nuclear is the single greatest threat. Just to go down the list, we defend Japan, we defend Germany, we defend South Korea, we defend Saudi Arabia, we defend countries. They do not pay us. But they should be paying us, because we are providing tremendous service and we're losing a fortune. That's why we're losing -- we're losing -- we lose on everything. I say, who makes these -- we lose on everything. All I said, that it's very possible that if they don't pay a fair share, because this isn't 40 years ago where we could do what we're doing. We can't defend Japan, a behemoth, selling us cars by the million... Well, wait, but it's very important. All I said was, they may have to defend themselves or they have to help us out. We're a country that owes $20 trillion. They have to help us out. As far as the nuclear is concerned, I agree. It is the single greatest threat that this country has. Well, I have to say that, you know, for what Secretary Clinton was saying about nuclear with Russia, she's very cavalier in the way she talks about various countries. But Russia has been expanding their -- they have a much newer capability than we do. We have not been updating from the new standpoint. I looked the other night. I was seeing B-52s, they're old enough that your father, your grandfather could be flying them. We are not -- we are not keeping up with other countries. I would like everybody to end it, just get rid of it. But I would certainly not do first strike. I think that once the nuclear alternative happens, it's over. At the same time, we have to be prepared. I can't take anything off the table. Because you look at some of these countries, you look at North Korea, we're doing nothing there. China should solve that problem for us. China should go into North Korea. China is totally powerful as it relates to North Korea. And by the way, another one powerful is the worst deal I think I've ever seen negotiated that you started is the Iran deal. Iran is one of their biggest trading partners. Iran has power over North Korea. And when they made that horrible deal with Iran, they should have included the fact that they do something with respect to North Korea. And they should have done something with respect to Yemen and all these other places. And when asked to Secretary Kerry, why didn't you do that? Why didn't you add other things into the deal? One of the great giveaways of all time, of all time, including $400 million in cash. Nobody's ever seen that before. That turned out to be wrong. It was actually $1.7 billion in cash, obviously, I guess for the hostages. It certainly looks that way. So you say to yourself, why didn't they make the right deal? This is one of the worst deals ever made by any country in history. The deal with Iran will lead to nuclear problems. All they have to do is sit back 10 years, and they don't have to do much. And they're going to end up getting nuclear. I met with Bibi Netanyahu the other day. Believe me, he's not a happy camper. Lester, one thing I'd like to say. I will go very quickly. But I will tell you that Hillary will tell you to go to her website and read all about how to defeat ISIS, which she could have defeated by never having it, you know, get going in the first place. Right now, it's getting tougher and tougher to defeat them, because they're in more and more places, more and more states, more and more nations. And it's a big problem. And as far as Japan is concerned, I want to help all of our allies, but we are losing billions and billions of dollars. We cannot be the policemen of the world. We cannot protect countries all over the world... ... where they're not paying us what we need. And she doesn't say that, because she's got no business ability. We need heart. We need a lot of things. But you have to have some basic ability. And sadly, she doesn't have that. All of the things that she's talking about could have been taken care of during the last 10 years, let's say, while she had great power. But they weren't taken care of. And if she ever wins this race, they won't be taken care of. She doesn't have the look. She doesn't have the stamina. I said she doesn't have the stamina. And I don't believe she does have the stamina. To be president of this country, you need tremendous stamina. You have -- wait a minute. Wait a minute, Lester. You asked me a question. Did you ask me a question? You have to be able to negotiate our trade deals. You have to be able to negotiate, that's right, with Japan, with Saudi Arabia. I mean, can you imagine, we're defending Saudi Arabia? And with all of the money they have, we're defending them, and they're not paying? All you have to do is speak to them. Wait. You have so many different things you have to be able to do, and I don't believe that Hillary has the stamina. The world -- let me tell you. Let me tell you. Hillary has experience, but it's bad experience. We have made so many bad deals during the last -- so she's got experience, that I agree. But it's bad, bad experience. Whether it's the Iran deal that you're so in love with, where we gave them $150 billion back, whether it's the Iran deal, whether it's anything you can -- name -- you almost can't name a good deal. I agree. She's got experience, but it's bad experience. And this country can't afford to have another four years of that kind of experience. I never said that. I didn't say that. Where did you find this? Where did you find this? Where did you find this? Oh, really? OK, good. Let me just tell you... You know, Hillary is hitting me with tremendous commercials. Some of it's said in entertainment. Some of it's said -- somebody who's been very vicious to me, Rosie O'Donnell, I said very tough things to her, and I think everybody would agree that she deserves it and nobody feels sorry for her. But you want to know the truth? I was going to say something... ... extremely rough to Hillary, to her family, and I said to myself, ""I can't do it. I just can't do it. It's inappropriate. It's not nice."" But she spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads on me, many of which are absolutely untrue. They're untrue. And they're misrepresentations. And I will tell you this, Lester: It's not nice. And I don't deserve that. But it's certainly not a nice thing that she's done. It's hundreds of millions of ads. And the only gratifying thing is, I saw the polls come in today, and with all of that money... ... $200 million is spent, and I'm either winning or tied, and I've spent practically nothing. The other day, we were deporting 800 people. And perhaps they passed the wrong button, they pressed the wrong button, or perhaps worse than that, it was corruption, but these people that we were going to deport for good reason ended up becoming citizens. Ended up becoming citizens. And it was 800. And now it turns out it might be 1,800, and they don't even know. Look, here's the story. I want to make America great again. I'm going to be able to do it. I don't believe Hillary will. The answer is, if she wins, I will absolutely support her."
"Well, I actually agree with that. I agree with everything she said. I began this campaign because I was so tired of seeing such foolish things happen to our country. This is a great country. This is a great land. I've gotten to know the people of the country over the last year-and-a-half that I've been doing this as a politician. I cannot believe I'm saying that about myself, but I guess I have been a politician. And my whole concept was to make America great again. When I watch the deals being made, when I watch what's happening with some horrible things like Obamacare, where your health insurance and health care is going up by numbers that are astronomical, 68 percent, 59 percent, 71 percent, when I look at the Iran deal and how bad a deal it is for us, it's a one-sided transaction where we're giving back $150 billion to a terrorist state, really, the number one terror state, we've made them a strong country from really a very weak country just three years ago. When I look at all of the things that I see and all of the potential that our country has, we have such tremendous potential, whether it's in business and trade, where we're doing so badly. Last year, we had almost $800 billion trade deficit. In other words, trading with other countries. We had an $800 billion deficit. It's hard to believe. Inconceivable. You say who's making these deals? We're going the make great deals. We're going to have a strong border. We're going to bring back law and order. Just today, policemen was shot, two killed. And this is happening on a weekly basis. We have to bring back respect to law enforcement. At the same time, we have to take care of people on all sides. We need justice. But I want to do things that haven't been done, including fixing and making our inner cities better for the African-American citizens that are so great, and for the Latinos, Hispanics, and I look forward to doing it. It's called make America great again. No, I didn't say that at all. I don't think you understood what was -- this was locker room talk. I'm not proud of it. I apologize to my family. I apologize to the American people. Certainly I'm not proud of it. But this is locker room talk. You know, when we have a world where you have ISIS chopping off heads, where you have -- and, frankly, drowning people in steel cages, where you have wars and horrible, horrible sights all over, where you have so many bad things happening, this is like medieval times. We haven't seen anything like this, the carnage all over the world. And they look and they see. Can you imagine the people that are, frankly, doing so well against us with ISIS? And they look at our country and they see what's going on. Yes, I'm very embarrassed by it. I hate it. But it's locker room talk, and it's one of those things. I will knock the hell out of ISIS. We're going to defeat ISIS. ISIS happened a number of years ago in a vacuum that was left because of bad judgment. And I will tell you, I will take care of ISIS. And we should get on to much more important things and much bigger things. I have great respect for women. Nobody has more respect for women than I do. I've said things that, frankly, you hear these things I said. And I was embarrassed by it. But I have tremendous respect for women. And women have respect for me. And I will tell you: No, I have not. And I will tell you that I'm going to make our country safe. We're going to have borders in our country, which we don't have now. People are pouring into our country, and they're coming in from the Middle East and other places. We're going to make America safe again. We're going to make America great again, but we're going to make America safe again. And we're going to make America wealthy again, because if you don't do that, it just -- it sounds harsh to say, but we have to build up the wealth of our nation. Right now, other nations are taking our jobs and they're taking our wealth. And that's what I want to talk about. Am I allowed to respond to that? I assume I am. It's just words, folks. It's just words. Those words, I've been hearing them for many years. I heard them when they were running for the Senate in New York, where Hillary was going to bring back jobs to upstate New York and she failed. I've heard them where Hillary is constantly talking about the inner cities of our country, which are a disaster education-wise, jobwise, safety-wise, in every way possible. I'm going to help the African-Americans. I'm going to help the Latinos, Hispanics. I am going to help the inner cities. She's done a terrible job for the African-Americans. She wants their vote, and she does nothing, and then she comes back four years later. We saw that firsthand when she was United States senator. She campaigned where the primary part of her campaign... So, she's allowed to do that, but I'm not allowed to respond? Sounds fair. It was locker room talk, as I told you. That was locker room talk. I'm not proud of it. I am a person who has great respect for people, for my family, for the people of this country. And certainly, I'm not proud of it. But that was something that happened. If you look at Bill Clinton, far worse. Mine are words, and his was action. His was what he's done to women. There's never been anybody in the history politics in this nation that's been so abusive to women. So you can say any way you want to say it, but Bill Clinton was abusive to women. Hillary Clinton attacked those same women and attacked them viciously. Four of them here tonight. One of the women, who is a wonderful woman, at 12 years old, was raped at 12. Her client she represented got him off, and she's seen laughing on two separate occasions, laughing at the girl who was raped. Kathy Shelton, that young woman is here with us tonight. So don't tell me about words. I am absolutely -- I apologize for those words. But it is things that people say. But what President Clinton did, he was impeached, he lost his license to practice law. He had to pay an $850,000 fine to one of the women. Paula Jones, who's also here tonight. And I will tell you that when Hillary brings up a point like that and she talks about words that I said 11 years ago, I think it's disgraceful, and I think she should be ashamed of herself, if you want to know the truth. Well, you owe the president an apology, because as you know very well, your campaign, Sidney Blumenthal -- he's another real winner that you have -- and he's the one that got this started, along with your campaign manager, and they were on television just two weeks ago, she was, saying exactly that. So you really owe him an apology. You're the one that sent the pictures around your campaign, sent the pictures around with President Obama in a certain garb. That was long before I was ever involved, so you actually owe an apology. Number two, Michelle Obama. I've gotten to see the commercials that they did on you. And I've gotten to see some of the most vicious commercials I've ever seen of Michelle Obama talking about you, Hillary. So, you talk about friend? Go back and take a look at those commercials, a race where you lost fair and square, unlike the Bernie Sanders race, where you won, but not fair and square, in my opinion. And all you have to do is take a look at WikiLeaks and just see what they say about Bernie Sanders and see what Deborah Wasserman Schultz had in mind, because Bernie Sanders, between super-delegates and Deborah Wasserman Schultz, he never had a chance. And I was so surprised to see him sign on with the devil. But when you talk about apology, I think the one that you should really be apologizing for and the thing that you should be apologizing for are the 33,000 e-mails that you deleted, and that you acid washed, and then the two boxes of e-mails and other things last week that were taken from an office and are now missing. And I'll tell you what. I didn't think I'd say this, but I'm going to say it, and I hate to say it. But if I win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation, because there has never been so many lies, so much deception. There has never been anything like it, and we're going to have a special prosecutor. When I speak, I go out and speak, the people of this country are furious. In my opinion, the people that have been long-term workers at the FBI are furious. There has never been anything like this, where e-mails -- and you get a subpoena, you get a subpoena, and after getting the subpoena, you delete 33,000 e-mails, and then you acid wash them or bleach them, as you would say, very expensive process. So we're going to get a special prosecutor, and we're going to look into it, because you know what? People have been -- their lives have been destroyed for doing one-fifth of what you've done. And it's a disgrace. And honestly, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Oh, really? Because you'd be in jail. And yet she didn't know the word -- the letter C on a document. Right? She didn't even know what that word -- what that letter meant. You know, it's amazing. I'm watching Hillary go over facts. And she's going after fact after fact, and she's lying again, because she said she -- you know, what she did with the e-mail was fine. You think it was fine to delete 33,000 e-mails? I don't think so. She said the 33,000 e-mails had to do with her daughter's wedding, number one, and a yoga class. Well, maybe we'll give three or three or four or five or something. 33,000 e-mails deleted, and now she's saying there wasn't anything wrong. And more importantly, that was after getting a subpoena. That wasn't before. That was after. She got it from the United States Congress. And I'll be honest, I am so disappointed in congressmen, including Republicans, for allowing this to happen. Our Justice Department, where our husband goes on to the back of a airplane for 39 minutes, talks to the attorney general days before a ruling is going to be made on her case. But for you to say that there was nothing wrong with you deleting 39,000 e-mails, again, you should be ashamed of yourself. What you did -- and this is after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress. You did that. Wait a minute. One second. If you did that in the private sector, you'd be put in jail, let alone after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress. Oh, you didn't delete them? Oh, 33,000? Yeah. Oh, yeah. What about the other 15,000? Because you have nothing to say. Get off this question. Let's see what happens I'd like to know, Anderson, why aren't you bringing up the e-mails? I'd like to know. Why aren't you bringing... No, it hasn't. It hasn't. And it hasn't been finished at all. It's nice to -- one on three. No, I'm a gentlemen, Hillary. Go ahead. It is such a great question and it's maybe the question I get almost more than anything else, outside of defense. Obamacare is a disaster. You know it. We all know it. It's going up at numbers that nobody's ever seen worldwide. Nobody's ever seen numbers like this for health care. It's only getting worse. In '17, it implodes by itself. Their method of fixing it is to go back and ask Congress for more money, more and more money. We have right now almost $20 trillion in debt. Obamacare will never work. It's very bad, very bad health insurance. Far too expensive. And not only expensive for the person that has it, unbelievably expensive for our country. It's going to be one of the biggest line items very shortly. We have to repeal it and replace it with something absolutely much less expensive and something that works, where your plan can actually be tailored. We have to get rid of the lines around the state, artificial lines, where we stop insurance companies from coming in and competing, because they want -- and President Obama and whoever was working on it -- they want to leave those lines, because that gives the insurance companies essentially monopolies. We want competition. You will have the finest health care plan there is. She wants to go to a single-payer plan, which would be a disaster, somewhat similar to Canada. And if you haven't noticed the Canadians, when they need a big operation, when something happens, they come into the United States in many cases because their system is so slow. It's catastrophic in certain ways. But she wants to go to single payer, which means the government basically rules everything. Hillary Clinton has been after this for years. Obamacare was the first step. Obamacare is a total disaster. And not only are your rates going up by numbers that nobody's ever believed, but your deductibles are going up, so that unless you get hit by a truck, you're never going to be able to use it. It is a disastrous plan, and it has to be repealed and replaced. Well, I just want -- just one thing. First of all, Hillary, everything's broken about it. Everything. Number two, Bernie Sanders said that Hillary Clinton has very bad judgment. This is a perfect example of it, trying to save Obamacare, which is a disaster. By the way... We're going to be able to. You're going to have plans... Well, I'll tell you what it means. You're going to have plans that are so good, because we're going to have so much competition in the insurance industry. Once we break out -- once we break out the lines and allow the competition to come... President Obama -- Anderson, excuse me. President Obama, by keeping those lines, the boundary lines around each state, it was almost gone until just very toward the end of the passage of Obamacare, which, by the way, was a fraud. You know that, because Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare, was said -- he said it was a great lie, it was a big lie. President Obama said you keep your doctor, you keep your plan. The whole thing was a fraud, and it doesn't work. But when we get rid of those lines, you will have competition, and we will be able to keep pre-existing, we'll also be able to help people that can't get -- don't have money because we are going to have people protected. And Republicans feel this way, believe it or not, and strongly this way. We're going to block grant into the states. We're going to block grant into Medicaid into the states... ... so that we will be able to take care of people without the necessary funds to take care of themselves. Well, you're right about Islamophobia, and that's a shame. But one thing we have to do is we have to make sure that -- because there is a problem. I mean, whether we like it or not, and we could be very politically correct, but whether we like it or not, there is a problem. And we have to be sure that Muslims come in and report when they see something going on. When they see hatred going on, they have to report it. As an example, in San Bernardino, many people saw the bombs all over the apartment of the two people that killed 14 and wounded many, many people. Horribly wounded. They'll never be the same. Muslims have to report the problems when they see them. And, you know, there's always a reason for everything. If they don't do that, it's a very difficult situation for our country, because you look at Orlando and you look at San Bernardino and you look at the World Trade Center. Go outside. Look at Paris. Look at that horrible -- these are radical Islamic terrorists. And she won't even mention the word and nor will President Obama. He won't use the term ""radical Islamic terrorism."" Now, to solve a problem, you have to be able to state what the problem is or at least say the name. She won't say the name and President Obama won't say the name. But the name is there. It's radical Islamic terror. And before you solve it, you have to say the name. First of all, Captain Khan is an American hero, and if I were president at that time, he would be alive today, because unlike her, who voted for the war without knowing what she was doing, I would not have had our people in Iraq. Iraq was disaster. So he would have been alive today. The Muslim ban is something that in some form has morphed into a extreme vetting from certain areas of the world. Hillary Clinton wants to allow hundreds of thousands -- excuse me. Excuse me.. Why don't you interrupt her? You interrupt me all the time. Why don't you interrupt her? It's called extreme vetting. We are going to areas like Syria where they're coming in by the tens of thousands because of Barack Obama. And Hillary Clinton wants to allow a 550 percent increase over Obama. People are coming into our country like we have no idea who they are, where they are from, what their feelings about our country is, and she wants 550 percent more. This is going to be the great Trojan horse of all time. We have enough problems in this country. I believe in building safe zones. I believe in having other people pay for them, as an example, the Gulf states, who are not carrying their weight, but they have nothing but money, and take care of people. But I don't want to have, with all the problems this country has and all of the problems that you see going on, hundreds of thousands of people coming in from Syria when we know nothing about them. We know nothing about their values and we know nothing about their love for our country. That's not been debunked. That has not been debunked. I was against -- I was against the war in Iraq. Has not been debunked. And you voted for it. And you shouldn't have. Well, I just want to say... Excuse me. She just went about 25 seconds over her time. Could I just respond to this, please? Hillary Clinton, in terms of having people come into our country, we have many criminal illegal aliens. When we want to send them back to their country, their country says we don't want them. In some cases, they're murderers, drug lords, drug problems. And they don't want them. And Hillary Clinton, when she was secretary of state, said that's OK, we can't force it into their country. Let me tell you, I'm going to force them right back into their country. They're murderers and some very bad people. And I will tell you very strongly, when Bernie Sanders said she had bad judgment, she has really bad judgment, because we are letting people into this country that are going to cause problems and crime like you've never seen. We're also letting drugs pour through our southern border at a record clip. At a record clip. And it shouldn't be allowed to happen. ICE just endorsed me. They've never endorsed a presidential candidate. The Border Patrol agents, 16,500, just recently endorsed me, and they endorsed me because I understand the border. She doesn't. She wants amnesty for everybody. Come right in. Come right over. It's a horrible thing she's doing. She's got bad judgment, and honestly, so bad that she should never be president of the United States. That I can tell you. Well, I think I should respond, because -- so ridiculous. Look, now she's blaming -- she got caught in a total lie. Her papers went out to all her friends at the banks, Goldman Sachs and everybody else, and she said things -- WikiLeaks that just came out. And she lied. Now she's blaming the lie on the late, great Abraham Lincoln. That's one that I haven't... OK, Honest Abe, Honest Abe never lied. That's the good thing. That's the big difference between Abraham Lincoln and you. That's a big, big difference. We're talking about some difference. But as far as other elements of what she was saying, I don't know Putin. I think it would be great if we got along with Russia because we could fight ISIS together, as an example. But I don't know Putin. But I notice, anytime anything wrong happens, they like to say the Russians are -- she doesn't know if it's the Russians doing the hacking. Maybe there is no hacking. But they always blame Russia. And the reason they blame Russia because they think they're trying to tarnish me with Russia. I know nothing about Russia. I know -- I know about Russia, but I know nothing about the inner workings of Russia. I don't deal there. I have no businesses there. I have no loans from Russia. I have a very, very great balance sheet, so great that when I did the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue, the United States government, because of my balance sheet, which they actually know very well, chose me to do the Old Post Office, between the White House and Congress, chose me to do the Old Post Office. One of the primary area things, in fact, perhaps the primary thing was balance sheet. But I have no loans with Russia. You could go to the United States government, and they would probably tell you that, because they know my sheet very well in order to get that development I had to have. Now, the taxes are a very simple thing. As soon as I have -- first of all, I pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. Many of her friends took bigger deductions. Warren Buffett took a massive deduction. Soros, who's a friend of hers, took a massive deduction. Many of the people that are giving her all this money that she can do many more commercials than me gave her -- took massive deductions. I pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. But -- but as soon as my routine audit is finished, I'll release my returns. I'll be very proud to. They're actually quite great. Well, one thing I'd do is get rid of carried interest. One of the greatest provisions for people like me, to be honest with you, I give up a lot when I run, because I knock out the tax code. And she could have done this years ago, by the way. She's a United States -- she was a United States senator. She complains that Donald Trump took advantage of the tax code. Well, why didn't she change it? Why didn't you change it when you were a senator? The reason you didn't is that all your friends take the same advantage that I do. And I do. You have provisions in the tax code that, frankly, we could change. But you wouldn't change it, because all of these people gave you the money so you can take negative ads on Donald Trump. But -- and I say that about a lot of things. You know, I've heard Hillary complaining about so many different things over the years. ""I wish you would have done this."" But she's been there for 30 years she's been doing this stuff. She never changed. And she never will change. She never will change. We're getting rid of carried interest provisions. I'm lowering taxes actually, because I think it's so important for corporations, because we have corporations leaving -- massive corporations and little ones, little ones can't form. We're getting rid of regulations which goes hand in hand with the lowering of the taxes. But we're bringing the tax rate down from 35 percent to 15 percent. We're cutting taxes for the middle class. And I will tell you, we are cutting them big league for the middle class. And I will tell you, Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes, folks. You can look at me. She's raising your taxes really high. And what that's going to do is a disaster for the country. But she is raising your taxes and I'm lowering your taxes. That in itself is a big difference. We are going to be thriving again. We have no growth in this country. There's no growth. If China has a GDP of 7 percent, it's like a national catastrophe. We're down at 1 percent. And that's, like, no growth. And we're going lower, in my opinion. And a lot of it has to do with the fact that our taxes are so high, just about the highest in the world. And I'm bringing them down to one of the lower in the world. And I think it's so important -- one of the most important things we can do. But she is raising everybody's taxes massively. Of course I do. Of course I do. And so do all of her donors, or most of her donors. I know many of her donors. Her donors took massive tax write-offs. A lot of my -- excuse me, Anderson -- a lot of my write- off was depreciation and other things that Hillary as a senator allowed. And she'll always allow it, because the people that give her all this money, they want it. That's why. See, I understand the tax code better than anybody that's ever run for president. Hillary Clinton -- and it's extremely complex -- Hillary Clinton has friends that want all of these provisions, including they want the carried interest provision, which is very important to Wall Street people. But they really want the carried interest provision, which I believe Hillary's leaving. Very interesting why she's leaving carried interest. But I will tell you that, number one, I pay tremendous numbers of taxes. I absolutely used it. And so did Warren Buffett and so did George Soros and so did many of the other people that Hillary is getting money from. Now, I won't mention their names, because they're rich, but they're not famous. So we won't make them famous. No, but I pay tax, and I pay federal tax, too. But I have a write-off, a lot of it's depreciation, which is a wonderful charge. I love depreciation. You know, she's given it to us. Hey, if she had a problem -- for 30 years she's been doing this, Anderson. I say it all the time. She talks about health care. Why didn't she do something about it? She talks about taxes. Why didn't she do something about it? She doesn't do anything about anything other than talk. With her, it's all talk and no action. And, again, Bernie Sanders, it's really bad judgment. She has made bad judgment not only on taxes. She's made bad judgments on Libya, on Syria, on Iraq. I mean, her and Obama, whether you like it or not, the way they got out of Iraq, the vacuum they've left, that's why ISIS formed in the first place. They started from that little area, and now they're in 32 different nations, Hillary. Congratulations. Great job. Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you do it? Oh, really? You could have done it, if you were an effective -- if you were an effective senator, you could have done it. If you were an effective senator, you could have done it. But you were not an effective senator. She said a lot of things that were false. I mean, I think we should be allowed to maybe... Excuse me. Because she has been a disaster as a senator. A disaster. First of all, she was there as secretary of state with the so-called line in the sand, which... OK. But you were in contact -- excuse me. You were... You were in total contact with the White House, and perhaps, sadly, Obama probably still listened to you. I don't think he would be listening to you very much anymore. Obama draws the line in the sand. It was laughed at all over the world what happened. Now, with that being said, she talks tough against Russia. But our nuclear program has fallen way behind, and they've gone wild with their nuclear program. Not good. Our government shouldn't have allowed that to happen. Russia is new in terms of nuclear. We are old. We're tired. We're exhausted in terms of nuclear. A very bad thing. Now, she talks tough, she talks really tough against Putin and against Assad. She talks in favor of the rebels. She doesn't even know who the rebels are. You know, every time we take rebels, whether it's in Iraq or anywhere else, we're arming people. And you know what happens? They end up being worse than the people. Look at what she did in Libya with Gadhafi. Gadhafi's out. It's a mess. And, by the way, ISIS has a good chunk of their oil. I'm sure you probably have heard that. It was a disaster. Because the fact is, almost everything she's done in foreign policy has been a mistake and it's been a disaster. But if you look at Russia, just take a look at Russia, and look at what they did this week, where I agree, she wasn't there, but possibly she's consulted. We sign a peace treaty. Everyone's all excited. Well, what Russia did with Assad and, by the way, with Iran, who you made very powerful with the dumbest deal perhaps I've ever seen in the history of deal-making, the Iran deal, with the $150 billion, with the $1.7 billion in cash, which is enough to fill up this room. But look at that deal. Iran now and Russia are now against us. So she wants to fight. She wants to fight for rebels. There's only one problem. You don't even know who the rebels are. So what's the purpose? And one thing I have to say. I don't like Assad at all, but Assad is killing ISIS. Russia is killing ISIS. And Iran is killing ISIS. And those three have now lined up because of our weak foreign policy. OK. He and I haven't spoken, and I disagree. I disagree. I think you have to knock out ISIS. Right now, Syria is fighting ISIS. We have people that want to fight both at the same time. But Syria is no longer Syria. Syria is Russia and it's Iran, who she made strong and Kerry and Obama made into a very powerful nation and a very rich nation, very, very quickly, very, very quickly. I believe we have to get ISIS. We have to worry about ISIS before we can get too much more involved. She had a chance to do something with Syria. They had a chance. And that was the line. And she didn't. I think Aleppo is a disaster, humanitarian-wise. I think that it basically has fallen. OK? It basically has fallen. Let me tell you something. You take a look at Mosul. The biggest problem I have with the stupidity of our foreign policy, we have Mosul. They think a lot of the ISIS leaders are in Mosul. So we have announcements coming out of Washington and coming out of Iraq, we will be attacking Mosul in three weeks or four weeks. Well, all of these bad leaders from ISIS are leaving Mosul. Why can't they do it quietly? Why can't they do the attack, make it a sneak attack, and after the attack is made, inform the American public that we've knocked out the leaders, we've had a tremendous success? People leave. Why do they have to say we're going to be attacking Mosul within the next four to six weeks, which is what they're saying? How stupid is our country? I can't think of any. I can't think of any. And I'm pretty good at it. And we have General Flynn. And we have -- look, I have 200 generals and admirals who endorsed me. I have 21 Congressional Medal of Honor recipients who endorsed me. We talk about it all the time. They understand, why can't they do something secretively, where they go in and they knock out the leadership? How -- why would these people stay there? I've been reading now... ... for weeks -- I've been reading now for weeks about Mosul, that it's the harbor of where -- you know, between Raqqa and Mosul, this is where they think the ISIS leaders are. Why would they be saying -- they're not staying there anymore. They're gone. Because everybody's talking about how Iraq, which is us with our leadership, goes in to fight Mosul. Now, with these 200 admirals and generals, they can't believe it. All I say is this. General George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur are spinning in their grave at the stupidity of what we're doing in the Middle East. Everything. You know what's funny? She went over a minute over, and you don't stop her. When I go one second over, it's like a big deal. It's really -- it's really very interesting. Absolutely. I mean, she calls our people deplorable, a large group, and irredeemable. I will be a president for all of our people. And I'll be a president that will turn our inner cities around and will give strength to people and will give economics to people and will bring jobs back. Because NAFTA, signed by her husband, is perhaps the greatest disaster trade deal in the history of the world. Not in this country. It stripped us of manufacturing jobs. We lost our jobs. We lost our money. We lost our plants. It is a disaster. And now she wants to sign TPP, even though she says now she's for it. She called it the gold standard. And by the way, at the last debate, she lied, because it turned out that she did say the gold standard and she said she didn't say it. They actually said that she lied. OK? And she lied. But she's lied about a lot of things. I would be a president for all of the people, African- Americans, the inner cities. Devastating what's happening to our inner cities. She's been talking about it for years. As usual, she talks about it, nothing happens. She doesn't get it done. Same with the Latino Americans, the Hispanic Americans. The same exact thing. They talk, they don't get it done. You go into the inner cities and -- you see it's 45 percent poverty. African- Americans now 45 percent poverty in the inner cities. The education is a disaster. Jobs are essentially nonexistent. I mean, it's -- you know, and I've been saying at big speeches where I have 20,000 and 30,000 people, what do you have to lose? It can't get any worse. And she's been talking about the inner cities for 25 years. Nothing's going to ever happen. Let me tell you, if she's president of the United States, nothing's going to happen. It's just going to be talk. And all of her friends, the taxes we were talking about, and I would just get it by osmosis. She's not doing any me favors. But by doing all the others' favors, she's doing me favors. But I will tell you, she's all talk. It doesn't get done. All you have to do is take a look at her Senate run. Take a look at upstate New York. It turned out to be a disaster. ... but we believed that we could make the country better. And I was proud of that. We have a divided nation. We have a very divided nation. You look at Charlotte. You look at Baltimore. You look at the violence that's taking place in the inner cities, Chicago, you take a look at Washington, D.C. We have an increase in murder within our cities, the biggest in 45 years. We have a divided nation, because people like her -- and believe me, she has tremendous hate in her heart. And when she said deplorables, she meant it. And when she said irredeemable, they're irredeemable, you didn't mention that, but when she said they're irredeemable, to me that might have been even worse. She's got tremendous -- she's got tremendous hatred. And this country cannot take another four years of Barack Obama, and that's what you're getting with her. No, there wasn't check out a sex tape. It was just take a look at the person that she built up to be this wonderful Girl Scout who was no Girl Scout. By the way, just so you understand, when she said 3 o'clock in the morning, take a look at Benghazi. She said who is going to answer the call at 3 o'clock in the morning? Guess what? She didn't answer it, because when Ambassador Stevens... ... 600 -- wait a minute, Anderson, 600 times. Well, she said she was awake at 3 o'clock in the morning, and she also sent a tweet out at 3 o'clock in the morning, but I won't even mention that. But she said she'll be awake. Who's going -- the famous thing, we're going to answer our call at 3 o'clock in the morning. Guess what happened? Ambassador Stevens -- Ambassador Stevens sent 600 requests for help. And the only one she talked to was Sidney Blumenthal, who's her friend and not a good guy, by the way. So, you know, she shouldn't be talking about that. Now, tweeting happens to be a modern day form of communication. I mean, you can like it or not like it. I have, between Facebook and Twitter, I have almost 25 million people. It's a very effective way of communication. So you can put it down, but it is a very effective form of communication. I'm not un-proud of it, to be honest with you. I'm shocked to hear that. We have the slowest growth since 1929. It is -- our country has the slowest growth and jobs are a disaster. Justice Scalia, great judge, died recently. And we have a vacancy. I am looking to appoint judges very much in the mold of Justice Scalia. I'm looking for judges -- and I've actually picked 20 of them so that people would see, highly respected, highly thought of, and actually very beautifully reviewed by just about everybody. But people that will respect the Constitution of the United States. And I think that this is so important. Also, the Second Amendment, which is totally under siege by people like Hillary Clinton. They'll respect the Second Amendment and what it stands for, what it represents. So important to me. Now, Hillary mentioned something about contributions just so you understand. So I will have in my race more than $100 million put in -- of my money, meaning I'm not taking all of this big money from all of these different corporations like she's doing. What I ask is this. So I'm putting in more than -- by the time it's finished, I'll have more than $100 million invested. Pretty much self-funding money. We're raising money for the Republican Party, and we're doing tremendously on the small donations, $61 average or so. I ask Hillary, why doesn't -- she made $250 million by being in office. She used the power of her office to make a lot of money. Why isn't she funding, not for $100 million, but why don't you put $10 million or $20 million or $25 million or $30 million into your own campaign? It's $30 million less for special interests that will tell you exactly what to do and it would really, I think, be a nice sign to the American public. Why aren't you putting some money in? You have a lot of it. You've made a lot of it because of the fact that you've been in office. Made a lot of it while you were secretary of state, actually. So why aren't you putting money into your own campaign? I'm just curious. Absolutely. I think it's such a great question, because energy is under siege by the Obama administration. Under absolutely siege. The EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, is killing these energy companies. And foreign companies are now coming in buying our -- buying so many of our different plants and then re-jiggering the plant so that they can take care of their oil. We are killing -- absolutely killing our energy business in this country. Now, I'm all for alternative forms of energy, including wind, including solar, et cetera. But we need much more than wind and solar. And you look at our miners. Hillary Clinton wants to put all the miners out of business. There is a thing called clean coal. Coal will last for 1,000 years in this country. Now we have natural gas and so many other things because of technology. We have unbelievable -- we have found over the last seven years, we have found tremendous wealth right under our feet. So good. Especially when you have $20 trillion in debt. I will bring our energy companies back. They'll be able to compete. They'll make money. They'll pay off our national debt. They'll pay off our tremendous budget deficits, which are tremendous. But we are putting our energy companies out of business. We have to bring back our workers. You take a look at what's happening to steel and the cost of steel and China dumping vast amounts of steel all over the United States, which essentially is killing our steelworkers and our steel companies. We have to guard our energy companies. We have to make it possible. The EPA is so restrictive that they are putting our energy companies out of business. And all you have to do is go to a great place like West Virginia or places like Ohio, which is phenomenal, or places like Pennsylvania and you see what they're doing to the people, miners and others in the energy business. It's a disgrace. It's an absolute disgrace. Well, I consider her statement about my children to be a very nice compliment. I don't know if it was meant to be a compliment, but it is a great -- I'm very proud of my children. And they've done a wonderful job, and they've been wonderful, wonderful kids. So I consider that a compliment. I will say this about Hillary. She doesn't quit. She doesn't give up. I respect that. I tell it like it is. She's a fighter. I disagree with much of what she's fighting for. I do disagree with her judgment in many cases. But she does fight hard, and she doesn't quit, and she doesn't give up. And I consider that to be a very good trait."
"Well, first of all, it's great to be with you, and thank you, everybody. The Supreme Court: It's what it's all about. Our country is so, so -- it's just so imperative that we have the right justices. Something happened recently where Justice Ginsburg made some very, very inappropriate statements toward me and toward a tremendous number of people, many, many millions of people that I represent. And she was forced to apologize. And apologize she did. But these were statements that should never, ever have been made. We need a Supreme Court that in my opinion is going to uphold the Second Amendment, and all amendments, but the Second Amendment, which is under absolute siege. I believe if my opponent should win this race, which I truly don't think will happen, we will have a Second Amendment which will be a very, very small replica of what it is right now. But I feel that it's absolutely important that we uphold, because of the fact that it is under such trauma. I feel that the justices that I am going to appoint -- and I've named 20 of them -- the justices that I'm going to appoint will be pro-life. They will have a conservative bent. They will be protecting the Second Amendment. They are great scholars in all cases, and they're people of tremendous respect. They will interpret the Constitution the way the founders wanted it interpreted. And I believe that's very, very important. I don't think we should have justices appointed that decide what they want to hear. It's all about the Constitution of -- of -- and so important, the Constitution the way it was meant to be. And those are the people that I will appoint. Well, the D.C. vs. Heller decision was very strongly -- and she was extremely angry about it. I watched. I mean, she was very, very angry when upheld. And Justice Scalia was so involved. And it was a well-crafted decision. But Hillary was extremely upset, extremely angry. And people that believe in the Second Amendment and believe in it very strongly were very upset with what she had to say. Well, let me just tell you before we go any further. In Chicago, which has the toughest gun laws in the United States, probably you could say by far, they have more gun violence than any other city. So we have the toughest laws, and you have tremendous gun violence. I am a very strong supporter of the Second Amendment. And I am -- I don't know if Hillary was saying it in a sarcastic manner, but I'm very proud to have the endorsement of the NRA. And it's the earliest endorsement they've ever given to anybody who ran for president. So I'm very honored by all of that. We are going to appoint justices -- this is the best way to help the Second Amendment. We are going to appoint justices that will feel very strongly about the Second Amendment, that will not do damage to the Second Amendment. Right. Well, if that would happen, because I am pro-life, and I will be appointing pro-life judges, I would think that that will go back to the individual states. If they overturned it, it will go back to the states. Well, if we put another two or perhaps three justice on, that's really what's going to be -- that will happen. And that'll happen automatically, in my opinion, because I am putting pro-life justices on the court. I will say this: It will go back to the states, and the states will then make a determination. Well, I think it's terrible. If you go with what Hillary is saying, in the ninth month, you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb of the mother just prior to the birth of the baby. Now, you can say that that's OK and Hillary can say that that's OK. But it's not OK with me, because based on what she's saying, and based on where she's going, and where she's been, you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month on the final day. And that's not acceptable. And, honestly, nobody has business doing what I just said, doing that, as late as one or two or three or four days prior to birth. Nobody has that. Well, first of all, she wants to give amnesty, which is a disaster and very unfair to all of the people that are waiting on line for many, many years. We need strong borders. In the audience tonight, we have four mothers of -- I mean, these are unbelievable people that I've gotten to know over a period of years whose children have been killed, brutally killed by people that came into the country illegally. You have thousands of mothers and fathers and relatives all over the country. They're coming in illegally. Drugs are pouring in through the border. We have no country if we have no border. Hillary wants to give amnesty. She wants to have open borders. The border -- as you know, the Border Patrol agents, 16,500-plus ICE last week, endorsed me. First time they've ever endorsed a candidate. It means their job is tougher. But they know what's going on. They know it better than anybody. They want strong borders. They feel we have to have strong borders. I was up in New Hampshire the other day. The biggest complaint they have -- it's with all of the problems going on in the world, many of the problems caused by Hillary Clinton and by Barack Obama. All of the problems -- the single biggest problem is heroin that pours across our southern border. It's just pouring and destroying their youth. It's poisoning the blood of their youth and plenty of other people. We have to have strong borders. We have to keep the drugs out of our country. We are -- right now, we're getting the drugs, they're getting the cash. We need strong borders. We need absolute -- we cannot give amnesty. Now, I want to build the wall. We need the wall. And the Border Patrol, ICE, they all want the wall. We stop the drugs. We shore up the border. One of my first acts will be to get all of the drug lords, all of the bad ones -- we have some bad, bad people in this country that have to go out. We're going to get them out; we're going to secure the border. And once the border is secured, at a later date, we'll make a determination as to the rest. But we have some bad hombres here, and we're going to get them out. Chris, I think it's... I think I should respond to that. First of all, I had a very good meeting with the president of Mexico. Very nice man. We will be doing very much better with Mexico on trade deals. Believe me. The NAFTA deal signed by her husband is one of the worst deals ever made of any kind, signed by anybody. It's a disaster. Hillary Clinton wanted the wall. Hillary Clinton fought for the wall in 2006 or thereabouts. Now, she never gets anything done, so naturally the wall wasn't built. But Hillary Clinton wanted the wall. We are a country of laws. We either have -- and by the way... Well -- well, but she said one thing. And the wall. President Obama has moved millions of people out. Nobody knows about it, nobody talks about it. But under Obama, millions of people have been moved out of this country. They've been deported. She doesn't want to say that, but that's what's happened, and that's what happened big league. As far as moving these people out and moving -- we either have a country or we don't. We're a country of laws. We either have a border or we don't. Now, you can come back in and you can become a citizen. But it's very unfair. We have millions of people that did it the right way. They're on line. They're waiting. We're going to speed up the process, big league, because it's very inefficient. But they're on line and they're waiting to become citizens. Very unfair that somebody runs across the border, becomes a citizen, under her plan, you have open borders. You would have a disaster on trade, and you will have a disaster with your open borders. But what she doesn't say is that President Obama has deported millions and millions of people just the way it is. Thank you. That was a great pivot off the fact that she wants open borders, OK? How did we get on to Putin? So just to finish on the borders... She wants open borders. People are going to pour into our country. People are going to come in from Syria. She wants 550 percent more people than Barack Obama, and he has thousands and thousands of people. They have no idea where they come from. And you see, we are going to stop radical Islamic terrorism in this country. She won't even mention the words, and neither will President Obama. So I just want to tell you, she wants open borders. Now we can talk about Putin. I don't know Putin. He said nice things about me. If we got along well, that would be good. If Russia and the United States got along well and went after ISIS, that would be good. He has no respect for her. He has no respect for our president. And I'll tell you what: We're in very serious trouble, because we have a country with tremendous numbers of nuclear warheads -- 1,800, by the way -- where they expanded and we didn't, 1,800 nuclear warheads. And she's playing chicken. Look, Putin... ... from everything I see, has no respect for this person. No puppet. No puppet. You're the puppet! No, you're the puppet. She has no idea whether it's Russia, China, or anybody else. She has no idea. Hillary, you have no idea. And our country has no idea. Yeah, I doubt it. I doubt it. She doesn't like Putin because Putin has outsmarted her at every step of the way. Excuse me. Putin has outsmarted her in Syria. He's outsmarted her every step of the way. Yes, that's fine. By Russia or anybody else. Of course I condemn. Of course I -- I don't know Putin. I have no idea. I never met Putin. This is not my best friend. But if the United States got along with Russia, wouldn't be so bad. Let me tell you, Putin has outsmarted her and Obama at every single step of the way. Whether it's Syria, you name it. Missiles. Take a look at the ""start up"" that they signed. The Russians have said, according to many, many reports, I can't believe they allowed us to do this. They create warheads, and we can't. The Russians can't believe it. She has been outsmarted by Putin. And all you have to do is look at the Middle East. They've taken over. We've spent $6 trillion. They've taken over the Middle East. She has been outsmarted and outplayed worse than anybody I've ever seen in any government whatsoever. And she always will be. Wrong. I have 200 generals... ... and admirals, 21 endorsing me, 21 congressional Medal of Honor recipients. As far as Japan and other countries, we are being ripped off by everybody in the -- we're defending other countries. We are spending a fortune doing it. They have the bargain of the century. All I said is, we have to renegotiate these agreements, because our country cannot afford to defend Saudi Arabia, Japan, Germany, South Korea, and many other places. We cannot continue to afford -- she took that as saying nuclear weapons. Look, she's been proven to be a liar on so many different ways. This is just another lie. There's no quote. You're not going to find a quote from me. And defend yourselves. And defend yourselves. I didn't say nuclear. And defend yourself. Yes. Well, first of all, before I start on my plan, her plan is going to raise taxes and even double your taxes. Her tax plan is a disaster. And she can say all she wants about college tuition. And I'm a big proponent. We're going to do a lot of things for college tuition. But the rest of the public's going to be paying for it. We will have a massive, massive tax increase under Hillary Clinton's plan. But I'd like to start off where we left, because when I said Japan and Germany, and I'm -- not to single them out, but South Korea, these are very rich, powerful countries. Saudi Arabia, nothing but money. We protect Saudi Arabia. Why aren't they paying? She immediately -- when she heard this, I questioned it, and I questioned NATO. Why aren't the NATO questioned -- why aren't they paying? Because they weren't paying. Since I did this -- this was a year ago -- all of a sudden, they're paying. And I've been given a lot -- a lot of credit for it. All of a sudden, they're starting to pay up. They have to pay up. We're protecting people, they have to pay up. And I'm a big fan of NATO. But they have to pay up. She comes out and said, we love our allies, we think our allies are great. Well, it's awfully hard to get them to pay up when you have somebody saying we think how great they are. We have to tell Japan in a very nice way, we have to tell Germany, all of these countries, South Korea, we have to say, you have to help us out. We have, during his regime, during President Obama's regime, we've doubled our national debt. We're up to $20 trillion. So my plan -- we're going to renegotiate trade deals. We're going to have a lot of free trade. We're going to have free trade, more free trade than we have right now. But we have horrible deals. Our jobs are being taken out by the deal that her husband signed, NAFTA, one of the worst deals ever. Our jobs are being sucked out of our economy. You look at all of the places that I just left, you go to Pennsylvania, you go to Ohio, you go to Florida, you go to any of them. You go upstate New York. Our jobs have fled to Mexico and other places. We're bringing our jobs back. I am going to renegotiate NAFTA. And if I can't make a great deal -- then we're going to terminate NAFTA and we're going to create new deals. We're going to have trade, but we're going -- we're going to terminate it, we're going to make a great trade deal. And if we can't, we're going to do it -- we're going to go a separate way, because it has been a disaster. We are going to cut taxes massively. We're going to cut business taxes massively. They're going to start hiring people. We're going to bring the $2.5 trillion... ... that's offshore back into the country. We are going to start the engine rolling again, because... ... right now, our country is dying at 1 percent GDP. You can't. Correct. Over a 10-year period. So I just left some high representatives of India. They're growing at 8 percent. China is growing at 7 percent. And that for them is a catastrophically low number. We are growing -- our last report came out -- and it's right around the 1 percent level. And I think it's going down. Last week, as you know, the end of last week, they came out with an anemic jobs report. A terrible jobs report. In fact I said, is that the last jobs report before the election? Because if it is, I should win easily, it was so bad. The report was so bad. Look, our country is stagnant. We've lost our jobs. We've lost our businesses. We're not making things anymore, relatively speaking. Our product is pouring in from China, pouring in from Vietnam, pouring in from all over the world. I've visited so many communities. This has been such an incredible education for me, Chris. I've gotten to know so many -- I've developed so many friends over the last year. And they cry when they see what's happened. I pass factories that were thriving 20, 25 years ago, and because of the bill that her husband signed and she blessed 100 percent, it is just horrible what's happened to these people in these communities. Now, she can say that her husband did well, but, boy, did they suffer as NAFTA kicked in, because it didn't really kick in very much, but it kicked in after they left. Boy, did they suffer. That was one of the worst things that's ever been signed by our country. Now she wants to sign Trans-Pacific Partnership. And she wants it. She lied when she said she didn't call it the gold standard in one of the debates. She totally lied. She did call it the gold standard. And they actually fact checked, and they said I was right. I was so honored. And that will be as bad as NAFTA. Well, let me just say -- let me just say. Let me ask a simple question. She's been doing this for 30 years. Why the hell didn't you do it over the last 15, 20 years? You were very much involved -- excuse me. My turn. You were very much involved in every aspect of this country. Very much. And you do have experience. I say the one thing you have over me is experience, but it's bad experience, because what you've done has turned out badly. For 30 years, you've been in a position to help, and if you say that I use steel or I use something else, I -- make it impossible for me to do that. I wouldn't mind. The problem is, you talk, but you don't get anything done, Hillary. You don't. Just like when you ran the State Department, $6 billion was missing. How do you miss $6 billion? You ran the State Department, $6 billion was either stolen. They don't know. It's gone, $6 billion. If you become president, this country is going to be in some mess. Believe me. Give me a break. Well, I think I did a much better job. I built a massive company, a great company, some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world, worth many, many billions of dollars. I started with a $1 million loan. I agree with that. It's a $1 million loan. But I built a phenomenal company. And if we could run our country the way I've run my company, we would have a country that you would be so proud of. You would even be proud of it. And frankly, when you look at her real record, take a look at Syria. Take a look at the migration. Take a look at Libya. Take a look at Iraq. She gave us ISIS, because her and Obama created this huge vacuum, and a small group came out of that huge vacuum because when -- we should never have been in Iraq, but once we were there, we should have never got out the way they wanted to get out. She gave us ISIS as sure as you are sitting there. And what happened is now ISIS is in 32 countries. And now I listen how she's going to get rid of ISIS. She's going to get rid of nobody. Well, first of all, those stories have been largely debunked. Those people -- I don't know those people. I have a feeling how they came. I believe it was her campaign that did it. Just like if you look at what came out today on the clips where I was wondering what happened with my rally in Chicago and other rallies where we had such violence? She's the one and Obama that caused the violence. They hired people -- they paid them $1,500, and they're on tape saying be violent, cause fights, do bad things. I would say the only way -- because those stories are all totally false, I have to say that. And I didn't even apologize to my wife, who's sitting right here, because I didn't do anything. I didn't know any of these -- I didn't see these women. These women -- the woman on the plane, the -- I think they want either fame or her campaign did it. And I think it's her campaign. Because what I saw what they did, which is a criminal act, by the way, where they're telling people to go out and start fist-fights and start violence. And I'll tell you what, in particular in Chicago, people were hurt and people could have been killed in that riot. And that was now all on tape, started by her. I believe, Chris, that she got these people to step forward. If it wasn't, they get their 10 minutes of fame. But they were all totally -- it was all fiction. It was lies, and it was fiction. I did not say that. I did not say that. I did not say that. Nobody has more respect for women than I do. Nobody. Nobody has more respect... And frankly, those stories have been largely debunked. And I really want to just talk about something slightly different. She mentions this, which is all fiction, all fictionalized, probably or possibly started by her and her very sleazy campaign. But I will tell you what isn't fictionalized are her e-mails, where she destroyed 33,000 e-mails criminally, criminally, after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress. What happened to the FBI, I don't know. We have a great general, four-star general, today you read it in all of the papers, going to potentially serve five years in jail for lying to the FBI. One lie. She's lied hundreds of times to the people, to Congress, and to the FBI. He's going to probably go to jail. This is a four-star general. And she gets away with it, and she can run for the presidency of the United States? That's really what you should be talking about, not fiction, where somebody wants fame or where they come out of her crooked campaign. Wrong. So sad when she talks about violence at my rallies, and she caused the violence. It's on tape. The other things are false, but honestly, I'd love to talk about getting rid of ISIS, and I'd love to talk about other things... ... but those other charges, as she knows, are false. I think that it's been very well... It's been very well studied. ... and it's a criminal enterprise, and so many people know it. It's a criminal enterprise. Saudi Arabia giving $25 million, Qatar, all of these countries. You talk about women and women's rights? So these are people that push gays off business -- off buildings. These are people that kill women and treat women horribly. And yet you take their money. So I'd like to ask you right now, why don't you give back the money that you've taken from certain countries that treat certain groups of people so horribly? Why don't you give back the money? I think it would be a great gesture. Because she takes a tremendous amount of money. And you take a look at the people of Haiti. I was at a little Haiti the other day in Florida. And I want to tell you, they hate the Clintons, because what's happened in Haiti with the Clinton Foundation is a disgrace. And you know it, and they know it, and everybody knows it. They don't want you to help them anymore. I'd like to mention one thing. Trump Foundation, small foundation. People contribute, I contribute. The money goes 100 percent -- 100 percent goes to different charities, including a lot of military. I don't get anything. I don't buy boats. I don't buy planes. What happens -- the money goes to them. No, it was -- we put up the American flag. And that's it. They put up the American flag. We fought for the right in Palm Beach to put up the American flag. There was. There was. And, by the way... ... the money -- the money went to Fisher House, where they build houses -- the money that you're talking about went to Fisher House, where they build houses for veterans and disabled vets. So let me just tell you very quickly, we're entitled because of the laws that people like her passed to take massive amounts of depreciation on other charges, and we do it. And all of her donors -- just about all of them -- I know Buffett took hundreds of millions of dollars, Soros, George Soros, took hundreds of millions of dollars... Let me just explain. Most of her donors have done the same thing as I do. You know what she should have done? And you know, Hillary, what you should have done, you should have changed the law when you were a United States senator... ... because your donors and your special interests are doing the same thing as I do, except even more so. You should have changed the law. But you won't change the law, because you take in so much money. I mean, I sat in my apartment today on a very beautiful hotel down the street known as Trump... But I will tell you, I sat there ... I sat there watching ad after ad after ad, false ad. All paid for by your friends on Wall Street that gave so much money because they know you're going to protect them. And, frankly, you should have changed the laws. If you don't like what I did, you should have changed the laws. I will look at it at the time. I'm not looking at anything now. I'll look at it at the time. What I've seen -- what I've seen is so bad. First of all, the media is so dishonest and so corrupt, and the pile-on is so amazing. The New York Times actually wrote an article about it, but they don't even care. It's so dishonest. And they've poisoned the mind of the voters. But unfortunately for them, I think the voters are seeing through it. I think they're going to see through it. We'll find out on November 8th. But I think they're going to see through it. If you look -- excuse me, Chris -- if you look at your voter rolls, you will see millions of people that are registered to vote -- millions, this isn't coming from me -- this is coming from Pew Report and other places -- millions of people that are registered to vote that shouldn't be registered to vote. So let me just give you one other thing. So I talk about the corrupt media. I talk about the millions of people -- tell you one other thing. She shouldn't be allowed to run. It's crooked -- she's -- she's guilty of a very, very serious crime. She should not be allowed to run. And just in that respect, I say it's rigged, because she should never... Chris, she should never have been allowed to run for the presidency based on what she did with e-mails and so many other things. What I'm saying is that I will tell you at the time. I'll keep you in suspense. OK? Should have gotten it. I think what the FBI did and what the Department of Justice did, including meeting with her husband, the attorney general, in the back of an airplane on the tarmac in Arizona, I think it's disgraceful. I think it's a disgrace. I think we've never had a situation so bad in this country. Let me tell you, Mosul is so sad. We had Mosul. But when she left, when she took everybody out, we lost Mosul. Now we're fighting again to get Mosul. The problem with Mosul and what they wanted to do is they wanted to get the leaders of ISIS who they felt were in Mosul. About three months ago, I started reading that they want to get the leaders and they're going to attack Mosul. Whatever happened to the element of surprise, OK? We announce we're going after Mosul. I have been reading about going after Mosul now for about -- how long is it, Hillary, three months? These people have all left. They've all left. The element of surprise. Douglas MacArthur, George Patton spinning in their graves when they see the stupidity of our country. So we're now fighting for Mosul, that we had. All she had to do was stay there, and now we're going in to get it. But you know who the big winner in Mosul is going to be after we eventually get it? And the only reason they did it is because she's running for the office of president and they want to look tough. They want to look good. He violated the red line in the sand, and he made so many mistakes, made all the mistakes. That's why we have the great migration. But she wanted to look good for the election. So they're going in. But who's going to get Mosul, really? We'll take Mosul eventually. But the way -- if you look at what's happening, much tougher than they thought. Much, much tougher. Much more dangerous. Going to be more deaths that they thought. But the leaders that we wanted to get are all gone because they're smart. They say, what do we need this for? So Mosul is going to be a wonderful thing. And Iran should write us a letter of thank you, just like the really stupid -- the stupidest deal of all time, a deal that's going to give Iran absolutely nuclear weapons. Iran should write us yet another letter saying thank you very much, because Iran, as I said many years ago, Iran is taking over Iraq, something they've wanted to do forever, but we've made it so easy for them. So we're now going to take Mosul. And do you know who's going to be the beneficiary? Iran. Oh, yeah, they're making -- I mean, they are outsmarting -- look, you're not there, you might be involved in that decision. But you were there when you took everybody out of Mosul and out of Iraq. You shouldn't have been in Iraq, but you did vote for it. You shouldn't have been in Iraq, but once you were in Iraq, you should have never left the way. The point is, the big winner is going to be Iran. Wrong. Wrong. Wrong. Chris, we don't gain anything. Iran is taking over Iraq. Iran is taking over Iraq. We don't gain anything. If they did it by surprise We could have gained if they did it by surprise. No, you are the one that's unfit. You know, WikiLeaks just actually came out -- John Podesta said some horrible things about you, and, boy, was he right. He said some beauties. And you know, Bernie Sanders, he said you have bad judgment. You do. And if you think that going into Mosul after we let the world know we're going in, and all of the people that we really wanted -- the leaders -- they're all gone. If you think that was good, then you do. Now, John Podesta said you have terrible instincts. Bernie Sanders said you have bad judgment. I agree with both. Which is a big mistake. It's a catastrophe. I mean... ... it's a mess. Have you seen it? Have you seen it? Have you seen what's happening to Aleppo? OK, so it hasn't fallen. Take a look at it. That's right. And they are being s ed... ... because of bad decisions. Well, Aleppo is a disaster. It's a humanitarian nightmare. But it has fallen from the -- from any standpoint. I mean, what do you need, a signed document? Take a look at Aleppo. It is so sad when you see what's happened. And a lot of this is because of Hillary Clinton, because what's happened is, by fighting Assad, who turned out to be a lot tougher than she thought, and now she's going to say, oh, he loves Assad, she's -- he's just much tougher and much smarter than her and Obama. And everyone thought he was gone two years ago, three years ago. He -- he aligned with Russia. He now also aligned with Iran, who we made very powerful. We gave them $150 billion back. We give them $1.7 billion in cash. I mean, cash. Bundles of cash as big as this stage. We gave them $1.7 billion. Now they have -- he has aligned with Russia and with Iran. They don't want ISIS, but they have other things, because we're backing -- we're backing rebels. We don't know who the rebels are. We're giving them lots of money, lots of everything. We don't know who the rebels are. And when and if -- and it's not going to happen, because you have Russia and you have Iran now. But if they ever did overthrow Assad, you might end up with -- as bad as Assad is, and he's a bad guy, but you may very well end up with worse than Assad. If she did nothing, we'd be in much better shape. And this is what's caused the great migration, where she's taking in tens of thousands of Syrian refugees, who probably in many cases -- not probably, who are definitely... ... in many cases, ISIS-aligned, and we now have them in our country, and wait until you see -- this is going to be the great Trojan horse. And wait until you see what happens in the coming years. Lots of luck, Hillary. Thanks a lot for doing a great job. But I just have to... It's so ridiculous what she -- she will defeat ISIS. We should have never let ISIS happen in the first place. And right now, they're in 32 countries. We should have -- wait one second. They had a cease-fire three weeks ago. A cease-fire, the United States, Russia, and Syria. And during the cease-fire, Russia took over vast swatches of land, and then they said we don't want the cease-fire anymore. We are so outplayed on missiles, on cease-fires. They are outplayed. Now, she wasn't there. I assume she had nothing to do with it. But our country is so outplayed by Putin and Assad, and by the way -- and by Iran. Nobody can believe how stupid our leadership is. Well, I say they're wrong, because I'm going to create tremendous jobs. And we're bringing GDP from, really, 1 percent, which is what it is now, and if she got in, it will be less than zero. But we're bringing it from 1 percent up to 4 percent. And I actually think we can go higher than 4 percent. I think you can go to 5 percent or 6 percent. And if we do, you don't have to bother asking your question, because we have a tremendous machine. We will have created a tremendous economic machine once again. To do that, we're taking back jobs. We're not going to let our companies be raided by other countries where we lose all our jobs, we don't make our product anymore. It's very sad. But I'm going to create a -- the kind of a country that we were from the standpoint of industry. We used to be there. We've given it up. We've become very, very sloppy. We've had people that are political hacks making the biggest deals in the world, bigger than companies. You take these big companies, these trade deals are far bigger than these companies, and yet we don't use our great leaders, many of whom back me and many of whom back Hillary, I must say. But we don't use those people. Those are the people -- these are the greatest negotiators in the world. We have the greatest businesspeople in the world. We have to use them to negotiate our trade deals. We use political hacks. We use people that get the position because they gave -- they made a campaign contribution and they're dealing with China and people that are very much smarter than they are. So we have to use our great people. But that being said, we will create an economic machine the likes of which we haven't seen in many decades. And people, Chris, will again go back to work and they'll make a lot of money. And we'll have companies that will grow and expand and start from new. Yeah, yeah, we've heard -- we've heard this before, Hillary. We've heard this before. Thank you, Hillary. Could I just respond? Because I did disagree with Ronald Reagan very strongly on trade. I disagreed with him. We should have been much tougher on trade even then. I've been waiting for years. Nobody does it right. And frankly, now we're going to do it right. I'm cutting taxes. We're going to grow the economy. It's going to grow at a record rate of growth. No, it's going to totally help you. And one thing we have to do: Repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare. It's destroying our country. It's destroying our businesses, our small business and our big businesses. We have to repeal and replace Obamacare. You take a look at the kind of numbers that that will cost us in the year '17, it is a disaster. If we don't repeal and replace -- now, it's probably going to die of its own weight. But Obamacare has to go. It's -- the premiums are going up 60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent. Next year they're going to go up over 100 percent. And I'm really glad that the premiums have started -- at least the people see what's happening, because she wants to keep Obamacare and she wants to make it even worse, and it can't get any worse. Bad health care at the most expensive price. We have to repeal and replace Obamacare. Such a nasty woman. Your husband disagrees with you. She's raising the money from the people she wants to control. Doesn't work that way. But when I started this campaign, I started it very strongly. It's called ""Make America Great Again."" We're going to make America great. We have a depleted military. It has to be helped, has to be fixed. We have the greatest people on Earth in our military. We don't take care of our veterans. We take care of illegal immigrants, people that come into the country illegally, better than we take care of our vets. That can't happen. Our policemen and women are disrespected. We need law and order, but we need justice, too. Our inner cities are a disaster. You get shot walking to the store. They have no education. They have no jobs. I will do more for African-Americans and Latinos than she can ever do in 10 lifetimes. All she's done is talk to the African-Americans and to the Latinos, but they get the vote, and then they come back, they say, we'll see you in four years. We are going to make America strong again, and we are going to make America great again, and it has to start now. We cannot take four more years of Barack Obama, and that's what you get when you get her."
"Utah and Omaha beaches. Every coastguardsman is trusted to put service before all. Coasties plunge from helicopters and barrel through pouring rain and crashing waves to save American lives. They secure our borders from drug runners and terrorists in rough seas at high speeds. Their sharpshooters take out smugglers engines with a single shot. They never miss. When the red racing stripes of a coast guard vessel break the horizon, when their chopper blades pierce the sky, those in distress know that the help is on their way and our enemies know their time has come.  These guardians of our waters stand: Semper Paratus. They are always ready. They are the United States Coast Guard. Representing the Coast Guard today, you will soon see an HH60 Jayhawk helicopter based at Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater along with an HH65 Dolphin from Air Station Atlantic City and an HC144 Ocean Century from Air Station Miami.  Thank you. Thank you to the Coast Guard. On a cold December morning in 1903, a miracle occurred over the dunes of Kitty Hawk, North Carolina when two bicycle makers from Ohio defied gravity with a 12-horsepower engine, wings made of cotton and just a few dollars in their pockets. Just six years later, America was training its first pilots to take these magnificent machines up and over the field of battle. In World War I, our fly boys rushed the skies of Europe and aces like Eddie Rickenbacker filled hearts and headlines with tales of daring duels in the clouds. General Billy Mitchell saw the promise of this technology and risked court martial in his quest for an independent air force. He was proven right when empires across the oceans tried to carve up the world for themselves and America stood in the way. We wouldnt let it happen.  After Pearl Harbor, Lieutenant Colonel James Doolittle and his Raiders flew B-25 bombers off a carrier deck in the deep Pacific in a daring feat of American resolve. And as President Roosevelt said, the Nazis built a fortress around Europe, but they forgot to put a roof on it. So we crushed them all from the air. 177 liberator bombers flew dangerously low through broad daylight without fighter protection to cripple the Nazi war machine at . More than 300 airmEn gave their lives to destroy the enemy oil refineries and five pilots were awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for their actions in that single raid. It was airman, Chuck Yeager who first broke the sound barrier. It was airman like Gus Grissom and Buzz Aldrin, who traded their saber jets for rockets to the stars. And it is our incredible airmen today who wield the most powerful weapon systems on the planet Earth. For over 65 years, no enemy air force has managed to kill a single American soldier because the skies belong to the United States of America.  No enemy has attacked our people without being met by a roar of thunder. And the awesome might of those who bid farewell to Earth and soar into the wild blue yonder. They are the United States Air Force. Representing the Air Force, you will soon see beautiful brand new F-22 raptors from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia. And one magnificent B-2 stealth bomber from Whiteman Air Force Base in Missouri.  What a great country. In October of 1775, the Continental Congress ordered the construction of two swift sailing vessels, each carrying 10 cannons and 80 men to sail eastward. Our young fleet tested their sea legs against the most powerful navy the world has ever seen. John Paul Jones, Americas first great naval hero, said I wish to have no connection with any ship that does not sail fast, for I intend to go in harms way. He got his wish many times when his ship was shot into pieces off the coast of England by a British vessel and her four dozen guns. When demanded to surrender, Jones very famously declared I have not yet begun to fight.  When our navy begins fighting, they finish the job. The war of 1812, Captain James Lawrence fell with his brothers on the USS Chesapeake. His dying command gained immortality. Dont give up the ship. In the battle of Mobile Bay, Admiral David Farragut lashed himself to the rigging of his flagship to see beyond the cannon smoke crying, Damn the torpedoes. Full speed ahead. In World War II, it was aviators launched from the carrier Enterprise, Hornet, Yorktown, who filled the skies of Midway and turned the tide of the Pacific War. Nobody could beat us. Nobody could come close. On D-Day, CB engineers came ashore to destroy blockades and barriers making way for the invasion. Many lost their lives, but they took the German defenses with them and our men crushed upon the beaches like a mighty storm. From the naval demolition units of World War II arose a force that became famous in the  Kang Delta. They dont want to see our force again. The very best of the very best, the Navy Seals.  It was the Seals who delivered vengeance on the terrorists who planned the September 11th attack on our homeland. It was the Seals who stand ready to bring righteous retribution in mountain jungle desert to those who do us harm. America sailors are not born. They are forged by the sea. Their traditions are rich with the salt and blood of three centuries. When old Laurie crest the waves of foreign shores, every friend and every foe knows that justice sails those waters. It sails with the United States Navy. Representing our great Navy today will be two F-18 Super Hornets from Naval Air Station Oceana in Virginia, along with two F-35 Lightnings from Naval Air Station Lemoore in California.  So great. In November of 1775, the Continental Congress created two battalions of a new kind of warrior. One who kept and would protect our ships and sailors and be at home, both ashore and in the mast with musket in hand. Their versatility was proven in the War of Independence when 234 continental marines conducted their first amphibious raid, capturing the British supply of gunpowder and cannons at Fort Nassau. Ever since, Marines have fought in every American war. Their legend has grown and grown and grown with each passing year. It was the Marines who won Americas first overseas battle, vanquishing Barbary pirates on the shores of Tripoli. Their high stiff collar, which shielded them from the pirate sword, earned them the immortal name Leatherneck. It was the Marines, who after two long days of battle, march through the halls of Montezuma. It was the Marines who took heavy casualties to kick the Kaisers troops out of Belleau Wood in World War One, earning the title Devil Dogs. And it was the Marines who raised the flag on the black sands of Iwo Jima. From the Chosin Reservoir to Kaesong, from Helmond to Baghdad, Marines have struck fear into the hearts of our enemies and put solace into the hearts of our friends. Marines always lead the way. After the 1983 Marine barracks bombing in Beirut, which claimed the lives of 241 great US servicemen, Marine Sergeant Jeffery Nashton lay in bandages so badly wounded, barely alive. When the commandant of the Marine Corps came to visit his hospital, Sergeant Nashton had to feel for the generals collar. He wanted to feel his four stars. He could not see and he could not speak. He signaled for pen and paper. And with shaking hand, he wrote two words: Semper Fi. That motto, Semper Fidelis, always faithful, burns in the soul of every Marine a sacred promise the core has kept since the birth of our country. They are the elite masters of air and land and sea on battlefields all across the globe. They are the United States   All across the globe. They are the United States Marines.  Representing the Marine Corps today will be a brand new VH-92, soon to serve as Marine One, along with two V-22 Ospreys from the famed HMX-1 helicopter squadron at Quantico, the Night Hawks.  (singing)  In June of 1775, the Continental Congress created a unified army out of the revolutionary forces encamped around Boston and New York and named after the great George Washington, commander-in-chief. The Continental Army suffered a bitter winter of Valley Forge, found glory across the waters of the Delaware, and seized victory from Cornwallis of Yorktown.  Our army manned the , it  the ramparts. It took over the airports. It did everything it had to do. And at Fort McHenry, under the rockets red glare, it had nothing but victory. And when dawn came, their star-spangled banner waved defiant. At Shiloh, Antietam, and Gettysburg, our soldiers gave the last full measure of devotion for the true unity of our nation and the freedom of all Americans.  In the trenches of World War One, an army sergeant named Alvin York, faced an inferno of enemy fire and refused to retreat. He said, I wont leave. I wont stop. He shot his rifle 18 times, killing 18 of the enemy. When they fixed bayonets and charged, he killed seven more. The entire German machine gun battalion surrendered because of one man, Alvin York.  A generation later, the Army returned to Europe and embarked upon a great crusade with knives and rifles in hand. The Rangers scaled the cliffs of Normandy. The 101st Airborne leapt into the danger from above, illuminated only by enemy flares, explosions, and burning aircraft. They threw back the Nazi Empire with lightning of their own from the turrets of Sherman tanks and the barrels of the M1 rifle. In the darkness of the Battle of the Bulge, with Nazis on every side, one soldier is reported to have said, Theyve got us surrounded again, the poor bastards. Yes. Outnumbered, American warriors fought through the bunkers of Pork Chop Hill and held the line of civilization in Korea. In the elephant grass of Vietnam, the first cavalry made its stand amid a forest consumed in flame with enemies at every single turn. The army brought Americas righteous fury down to Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and cleared the bloodthirsty killers from their caves. They liberated Fallujah and Mosul and helped liberate and obliterate the ISIS caliphate just recently in Syria, 100% gone. Through centuries, our soldiers have always pointed toward home proclaiming, This well defend. They live by the creed of Douglas MacArthur. In war, there is no substitute for victory. They are the greatest soldiers on Earth.  (singing)  Nearly 250 years ago, a volunteer army of farmers and shopkeepers, blacksmiths, merchants, and militiamen risked life and limb to secure American liberty and self-government. This evening, we have witnessed the noble might of the warriors who continue that legacy. They guard our birthright with vigilance and fierce devotion to the flag and to our great country. Now we must go forward as a nation with that same unity of purpose. As long as we stay true to our course, as long as we remember our great history, as long as we never ever stop fighting for a better future, then there will be nothing that America cannot do.  Thank you. We will always be the people who defeated a tyrant, crossed a continent, harnessed science, took to the skies, and soared into the heavens, because we will never forget that we are Americans, and the future belongs to us.  The future belongs to the brave, the strong, the proud, and the free. We are one people chasing one dream and one magnificent destiny. We all share the same heroes, the same home, the same heart, and we are all made by the same Almighty God.  From the banks of the Chesapeake to the cliffs of California, from the humming shores of the Great Lakes to the sand dunes of the Carolinas, from the fields of the heartland to the Everglades of Florida, the spirit of American independence will never fade, never fail, but will reign forever and ever and ever.  So once more, to every citizen throughout our land, have a glorious Independence Day. Have a great Fourth of July. I want to thank the Army Band, the National Park Service, the Interior Department, the incredible pilots overhead, and those who are making possible the amazing fireworks display later this evening. Now as the band plays the Battle Hymn of the Republic, I invite the First Lady, Vice President and Mrs. Pence, the service secretaries, and military leaders to join me on stage for one more salute to America by the famous, incredible, talented Blue Angels. God Bless you, God bless the military, and God bless America. Happy Fourth of July.  (singing)"
"Good builder. He loved to build houses. He was a good builder. I learned so much from him, and he was a great guy. Lovely guy. Loved my father. I started off making little deals in Brooklyn and Queens with my father, and they seemed to work out. I like winning better. We have to win.  Ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for President of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.  I was called by a major, major reporter whose name I will not use, and he said to me, What youve done has never been done in the history of the United States politics, and more and more people are resonating to what Im saying. Thats why Im leading in every poll.  We have so much winning if I get elected that you may get bored with winning.  I think I have to win. Im about winning. Only Rosie ODonnell.  The big problem this country has is being politically correct. Ive been challenged by so many people, and I dont frankly have time for total political correctness. Oh yeah. Youre a tough guy, Jeff. Real tough. Youre real tough, Jeff. Well, lets see. Im at 42, and youre at 3, so so far- Im doing better. So far, Im doing better. You started off over here, Jeff. Youre moving over further and further. Pretty soon, youre going to be off the end.  I will build a great, great wall on the Southern border, and I will have Mexico pay for that wall. I will, and the wall just got 10 feet taller. Believe me.  Tolerance for criminal aliens is zero, zero.  No, no. Youre telling the enemy everything you want to do. See, youre telling the enemy everything you want to do. No wonder youve been fighting. No wonder youve been fighting ISIS your entire adult life.  Were going to secure the border. And once the border is secured, at a later date, well make it to termination as to the rest. But, we have some bad hombres here, and were going to get them out.  We will release my tax returns, against my lawyers wishes, when she releases her 33,000 emails that have been deleted.  I did not support the war in Iraq. That is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her, because she, frankly, I think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media. Such a nasty woman. After getting the subpoena, you delete 33,000 emails, and then you acid wash them, or bleach them, as you would say, a very expensive process. So, were going to get a special prosecutor, and were going to look into it, because you know what? You oughta be ashamed of yourself. Because youd be in jail. I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election, if I win. Thank you.  Thank you very much, everyone. Sorry to keep you waiting, complicated business. Complicated business. We did have a lot of fun fighting Hillary, didnt we? Right? We pledge allegiance to one flag, and that flag is the American flag. From now on, its going to be America first, okay? America first. I, Donald John Trump, do solemnly swear. That I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States. So help me God. From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land. From this day forward, its going to be only America first, America first. The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer. Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers, and American families. I will fight for you with every breath in my body, and I will never, ever let you down.  We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring back our wealth, and we will bring back our dreams. Do not allow anyone to tell you that it cannot be done. No challenge can match the heart and fight and spirit of America. We will not fail. January 20th, 2017, will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again. So, lets have a good time, right? Im excited to be here today with thousands of proud, young American patriots. You all are great people. Youre the future. Youre the future. On behalf of my entire administration, thank you to everyone at Turning Point USAs Teen Student Action Summit. What a group. What a group.  They dont realize theres more of you than there is of them. They just havent figured that out yet. Theyll understand. Theyll figure it out someday. Theyre still trying to figure out what the hell happened. What happened? How did this happen? Youve come to our nations Capitol from cities and towns across America. Youve given up a big part of your summer, which many young people are not willing to do, and we understand that too. But what youre doing is fun, and its important, so important.  Youve paved and paved your own way to get here, and in some cases, it wasnt easy, and youve done it for all of us. Youve done it for one simple reason. You are loyal to our nation. You are devoted to your fellow citizens. And you will always put America first.  I want to thank my great friend, and hes a young friend, hes a pretty young guy, Charlie Kirk. I said, How old are you, Charlie? Hes a young one. Gave me a number I wont say, but hes younger than he even looks. But, I want to thank Charlie. Hes an incredible guy. His spirit is love of this country. Hes done an amazing job. Hes done something that is just incredible for someone really of his age. You need tremendous talent to do what hes done, building one of the most powerful youth organizations ever created, Turning Point USA, and I want to thank you really, Charlie. You did an incredible job.  The young leaders here today are part of a movement unlike anything in the history of our nation. Theres never been anything like this. And the fake news doesnt even talk about it, because- no, but when I say it, they dont correct me. They dont say, Oh, hes a Pinocchio. They cant, because its true. Its true. They can find fault with anything, but they never talk about that, because we won. There have been some pretty good movements, and they won New Hampshire, or they won the state, some place, but they didnt win the whole ball game. You saw what we won.  And you could see it. We could feel it. We knew it was going to happen, because its a movement about reclaiming your future, rebuilding your country, and restoring your destiny, and renewing the values that are the true source of American greatness. We lost those values, and were getting them back rapidly. Were getting them back rapidly.  Just backstage, a gentleman, very rich gentleman in this case, came up sitting in one of these rows, I assume. Yeah. There he is. He said, Sir, thank you for saving our country. And I said, Thank you very much. I said, Thank you very much. And I looked at Charlie. And I said, Charlie, do you have any idea how many people say that? I gave the commencement address at the Air Force Academy recently, and Indianapolis the year before. And they said, Sir, would you like to shake the hands of all the cadets? I said, How many are there? 1,100. I said, Yeah, that sounds okay. I say, Do other Presidents do it? Yes, they do. Do all of them? yeah, they do. What they didnt say is they start and then they beat around, and then they go back, because its tough. It was really hot. That sun was beaming down, and Im just one hand. Some of these guys are great athletes. Some of the women, they had some women in the class that were  their hands were very strong, okay? And they were all shaking it. Theyre a little nervous meeting the President. Theyre shaking strongly and  sir.  But with shaking 1,100 hands, and saluting, was saluting, shaking, turning, spinning. They come at all different directions. Felt like a great fighter pilot. But, I stood up there for the whole thing. I said, Theres no way that other Presidents have done that. He said, No, no, they do it, but they leave after about 50 or 60 people. I said, Why didnt you tell me that? But Im glad I did it.  But, I did the same thing. I did the same thing at Annapolis the year before, great place. Just great. And I shook the hands of, I think, 1,011 at Annapolis, and its really something great. But, so many of these young incredible people, theyre like you, so many of these young incredible people, they come, Sir, thank you for saving America. Sir, thank you for saving America. Sir, thank you for saving our country. So many of them, its not rehearsed. Its just thats what they feel.  And you know what? Someone had to do what I did. Its not pleasant. We have a deep state. We have banned people. We have sick people. I watched just this morning this Tlaib from Michigan, right? Its a great state. We won Michigan. There is no way she stands for the values of the people of Michigan. But, I watched her this morning. Shes vicious. Shes like a crazed lunatic. Shes screaming. This is before she got into Congress. Who elected her? Shes screaming like a total lunatic at one of our rallies. Its like Im giving a little rally, and she starts screaming. And this is not a sane person, folks, when you look at that.  And this is what were up against. You have some of that. Now, the Democrats, I guess, are forced to embrace her, and I call it AOC plus three. Okay? AOC. AOC plus three. Not that AOC is a bargain, because shes not. Shes no bargain. Look. Well go into it at some point. Ill tell you all about AOC. Ive got more on AOC. AOC. AOC.  But, whats going on with that party, having to embrace them, and your other friend from an incredible state, right? A state that Im going to win, Minnesota. You know that one. And you know why Im going to win the state? Because of her. I almost won it last time. We came within just about a point. Thats a very  because Minnesotas a very hard one for a Republican to win. We almost won it, one more night. I wanted to go there one more time. I said, Im telling you, were going to win Minnesota.  You know who thought I was going to win Minnesota? You know who thought I was going to win Michigan, and Wisconsin, and North Carolina? Bill Clinton. He was telling everybody, You better be careful. He told people, from what I hear, he said, The one you dont want to run against is Trump. And they said, Why? Oh no, thats good. We want to run against Trump. No, no, you dont.  You know, I actually knew him pretty well. We got along very well, until I decided to run for office. We actually got along. But, they didnt want to listen to him. But, he was the only one with the instinct. The rest didnt have. So, he came back and he said, You know, hes doing very well in Michigan. You could have a problem. They said, No, dont worry about Michigan. We havent lost Michigan in decades.  And he came back. He said, You know, he was in Wisconsin, or something. But he said he hears that Im doing well in Wisconsin. They say, Forget it. A Republican cant win Wisconsin. And then we won Wisconsin. Then he came back. And I say this with a certain old time affection, because I had a very good relationship with him before doing this. Now its a little harder for him to have a good relationship.  But, he said, You dont want to run against Trump. Dont run against Trump. Everybody said, No, no. Thats okay. We like him. Remember, President Obama? He will not win. He will not win. Okay? He goes, Liar. Yeah. Hey, did Obama get a Pinocchio? Thats right. Obama said, He will not win. He will not be your President. The anger was unbelievable. You know what? Hes right. He was a liar. Did you give Obama a Pinocchio Washington Post? He said, He will not win. These papers.  These papers are so bad. So yesterday, we had a story in one of the papers that I thought was good, but theyre really not. When you analyze it, theres almost not too many of them that are. The wall. Were building a lot of wall. But, let me just tell you. But, there are areas where they have walls that are falling down, walls that are in such bad shape. Were trying to renovate it as much as we can. And we have a provision. We can renovate, but we cant build new.  So, were taking all these years, and generally speaking, when you have an old wall thats falling down, its in a better location for a wall. Thats why they had it there in the first place, as opposed to an area thats empty. Typically, that would be true. So, these walls are old. Theyre crumbling. Theyre of no use. Theyre falling down. So, we rip it up, build brand new foundations, pour brand new beautiful footings, and take a wall thats two or three feet high, mostly laying on the ground, some of it only for cars, to stop cars from coming, of course. Just a metal spike.  So we would rip it out, figure it would take about a minute, and we put in deep foundation seven feet deep, and we put in 30 foot bollards, and then loaded it up with concrete, because inside, I like doing it. One of the reasons, they said, But, you said youre going to build a concrete wall. Well, so actually inside the steel, we have it. So we have both. We have steel and we have concrete.  And I was saving that for later, because the only thing they can do is, Hes building a steel wall. Its not concrete. Oh, sorry about that, folks. And you do have to have vision. Its very important. You cant just have a blank wall. You have to have vision. Its much better for security to have the vision.  Anyway, so were building the wall. So, they come out with, Donald Trump has built almost no wall. What a lie that is, and were building 50 miles here, 50 miles there, 50 all in the right locations, because there used to be walls, but then we had to take them down. In some cases, if theyre good enough, were renovating, because we can do it for a lot less money. But generally, some of these walls are worthless. Literally, you just drive right over them. Theyre laying down on their side.  They gave me no credit. If you ready the story, theyll say, Well, he has renovated a lot of wall. Well, thats not even a renovation. Lets face it. Thats a brand new wall. Its all a brand new wall. It just shows you how dishonest this fake news is, and this is what we have to deal with. This is really what we have to deal with. But, get used to it.  Many of you will be in politics. Just get used to it, okay? Get used to it. Together, is this true? We believe in the American Constitution, and we believe judges should interpret our Constitution as written. Youll be seeing this. We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. Second Amendment. What a group. Look. Look. They are in the process of trying to take your arms away. You have the Second Amendment. They will do damage to the Second Amendment, the likes of which nobody even thought of. Thats where theyre coming from. Just remember, I said it. Hopefully, they never get the chance. And thats why the election coming up  I always said this is the most important election, 2016, most important election that weve ever had.  And it was certainly the coolest. Thats for sure. But, it was, I believe, the most important election, because our country was going wrong. It was going wrong. And when you see all the incredible numbers coming up, and all the success that were having, and all the fact that were respected all over the world. We have a really good man whos going to be the Prime Minister of the UK now, Boris Johnson.  Good man. Hes tough, and hes smart. This aint Britain Trump. They call him Britain Trump. And people are saying, Thats a good thing. They like me over there. Thats what they wanted. Thats what they need. Thats what they need. Hell get it done. Boris is good. Hes going to do a good job. I think Nigels some place in this audience. Wheres Nigel? Where is he? Nigel Farage. Hes here some place. I saw him. I said, What is he doing here? Hes a little older than most of you. Where is he? Nigel. Nigel.  Ill tell you what. He got 32% of the vote from nowhere, over in the UK. Nigel, thank you Nigel. I said, Whats Nigel doing here? Hes a little older than you folks. But, he did a great job. But, I know that hes going to work well with Boris. Theyre going to do some tremendous things. But, we believe in the American dream, and not a socialist nightmare that these people are trying to put on our shoulders.  And we know that strong nations must have strong borders, and were building a strong border against so much. You have no idea. Every time I announce, as an example, a section of wall, I get lawsuits. They sue me. You know who sues me? Congressmen. Congressmen. I get sued by Nancy Pelosi. We won that suit. Can you believe it? I won one. We won a couple of them, but we have suits on the border. We had one judge. They always sue in the ninth circuit. You know what that means, right?  They sue in the ninth circuit, which is sort of like an automatic victory, although we did win one last week in the ninth circuit. No one can even believe it. Can you? You know whats happening, right? Do you know whats happening? So as of today, this is so important, there are those that say its the most important. I would say war and peace and security, thats the most important. But, they say the most important thing a President can do is the selection of Supreme Court justices, right?  We have two, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh. We have two. Already, we have two. Some have gone a long time, and they havent had many, and they havent had any, in some cases. So, we have two already. And theyre great, and theyre good. But, what people dont talk about, Ive just signed the 124th federal district judge, federal judges underneath. And within a couple of months, Ill be up to 147. Think of that. 147. Because normally, when you become President, you go in, and you say, Do I have any judges to appoint? No. Because its such an important thing. Because these district judges, theyre the ones who do the trials. This is big stuff.  And then, you have court of appeals judges. Then, you have the Supreme Court judges. So, we have two on the Supreme Court. We have many appeals court judges, many that weve appointed. The courts are a whole different thing. But, I will be up to 147, not including the two Supreme Court justices.  Now, percentage wise, I blow everybody away except one person, one person Ill never beat. You know who the one person is? Who? George Washington. Hes got 100%. George Washington. But, were going to have a tremendous percentage, and after six more years, it will go to a level that nobody believed was possible.  But, George Washingtons hard to beat because he put in 100, because he was the first, so he had it. But, I have many more than George Washington. Remember that. George Washington didnt put in too many, but he had certainly the highest percentage. That will be a record that will never be broken.  We believe that every young American should love our country, honor our history, and always respect what? Our great American flag. How about the Betsy Ross? Isnt that terrible, where they try to take your heritage away from you like that? Isnt that terrible?  Like that, isnt that terrible? Isnt that terrible? And then, you see the picture of President Obama with the same exactly leg up. He shouldve taken it down. Why didnt he take it down? Its really very unfair what they do. They try and demean and belittle, and theyre very good at it. Theyre better at than they are at politics. Theyre better than that then they are at policy. Look at their policy. They want open borders, which means crime, which means drugs and human trafficking, which is a phenomenon that you would think is thousands of years old, and that wouldve been their prime. No, the prime is now because of the internet. Women, mostly women, are being trafficked, and they got not only in this country, all over the world. Its never been like this before. Human trafficking, they snatch women, and they traffic women, and they sell women, and we cant get the Democrats to even give us a modicum of the money we need at the border, especially for the wall. Im taking money from here and there and there and there. Lets take it from here. We have all these different sources coming from all over the place because they wont approve it, and five years ago, they all wanted it.  Six years ago, seven years ago, they all voted for it. They never got it built, but they all voted for it, and today, they make it so tough. You have to see. Im doing everything I can, and were doing well with it, but this should just be one nice, fat sum where I could get the best four or five contractors, not worry about I gave it out, but I have a lawsuit, and if the lawsuit happens, I have to undo it. How do you give a contract out where you have a contractor, and hes got to build 67 miles of wall? We have one case, but were being sued, our funding source, because were taking it from a certain area, and so, were being sued. So, we have to wait for the suit. I mean, how would you like to be building like this? Not good, its not good, but were getting it done anyway, but they should say, Its not working without the wall. You got to have the wall. You got to have   When they bum rush you, they did that last week. They rushed in a tremendous large number of people. By the way, you know why theyre coming up right? Because we have created the strongest economy in the history of our country. So, theyre coming because they want a piece of the economy.  Theyre not coming up for safety and this and that. You ever see these people? They fly their flag. They come up from Guatemala, who by the way, went back on their word to us. They were all set to sign a safe third agreement, and then, today or yesterday, they announced they cant do it because theyve got a Supreme Court ruling, their Supreme Court, right? They got . In other words, they didnt want to sign it. So, theyre supposed to sign whats called a safe third. Thats a good thing for us, okay? Thats all I have to tell you, and they went back. So, were going to do either tariffs, or were going to do a form of tax, or were going to use our ban. People dont realize we won the ban. I saw one of the journalists, well call them, who happens to be back there, I believe. One of them, look at all those cameras. Isnt that terrible or good or whatever? Wouldnt it be great if they told the truth? They have such a low credibility. They started off very high, and then, I ran, and their credibility is so low, you wouldnt believe it. But thats okay, but wouldnt it be nice if they  Think of it. Think of it. What would be if we had an honest  I dont want a media thats for me. I just want an honest media. So, we have our best poll numbers today that weve ever had. Can you imagine how good our poll numbers, with all the things that weve done, how good our numbers would be if we had just a fair media? Because they can take any- He goes 100%. Who said that? Stand up. Huh? You bet. He goes 100%, and you know what? I like your long hair. Its very nice, actually. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Thats funny. So, above all else, we know this, that in America, we dont worship government. We worship God.  Im not disavowing that they like me. Would you disavow that? No, thank you. The squad. No, its very good, very true. These are the values that unite everyone in this room. These are the values that inspire hundreds of thousands of Turning Point usa members and more than 1400 college and high school campuses in all 50 states. Its incredible whats been done with Turning Point and the job, Charlie, and everybody. I met all of the people backstage just a little while ago. These are people that love our country. Its amazing what theyve done, the job theyve done and in a pretty short period of time. And I was telling Charlie, too, and Ive said it before,  Remember, you are not in the minority. Most people are with you. There was a young woman today. I saw her on a beauty pageant, and she has conservative values, and the pageant, which used to compete against my pageant  I did much better, but thats okay. I had the Miss Universes. This is a different company, but I sold it. I figured when you run for office, I sold it to IMG, great company, very nice deal, too.  But when you run for office, owning a beauty pageant is not the greatest idea. Do we agree? Owning the Miss Universe and Miss usa and Miss Teen usa, by the way, was not exactly good with maybe running for president. So, we sold it to IMG, but what they did to this young lady was terrible, and she was on Fox and Friends this morning wearing a Make America Great Again hat, which was pretty cool, which was pretty cool. Each of you is coming of age at a time of unlimited possibility. Its true, better than, I think, ever before. We have the hottest economy on the planet Earth, and I was elected. Weve created more than six million new jobs. More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps, think of that. Unemployment for young Americans age 16 to 19 has reached the lowest rate in over half a century. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans have all reached their lowest levels ever recorded. Wages are rising, and theyre growing fastest for blue collar workers. Isnt that great, though? People dont talk about that. Young people have seen their wages rise by more than 10%. Thats a lot quickly, too.  Our economic revival is incredible, and its incredible news for everyone graduating from college or joining the workforce. This is the best time in the history of our country for young people like yourself to join the workforce because Americas thriving. Americas booming, and America is winning again and winning like never before. Its never been winning like this, and we did it through a lot of hard work. Its not luck. I will tell you. If our opponent, if my opponent won, instead of having record stock markets and record employment numbers, you wouldve been in, in my opinion, a major recession, if not a depression. You wouldve gone down like a rock. Look what happened right after the election. The stock market was like a rocket ship because of enthusiasm. People wanted to have us win. Its not me. Its us. Its all of us. Its a movement. Its us, and the market . We cute our record number of job-killing regulations. We passed historic tax cuts so that our industries can compete and win against anyone in the world. We are revising decades of ruinous trade deals that ravaged our communities and pillaged our factories. We were sending companies out of our country, great companies. They were leaving us, going to Mexico, going to China, going to so many other places.  The deals we made were the dumbest deals in the history of this world. It was unbelievable. 60,000 factories and plants and businesses closed up. Think of it. 60,000, you would say, How is that possible? You get a map, take 60,000  You would say its impossible. 60,000 factories, plants, companies destroyed. Not destroyed, they went a different way. They were given no incentives to stay here. Some of the dumbest legislation ever passed, NAFTA. The World Trade Organization has been a horrible thing for us. Thats what built China. That and the fact that our former presidents did nothing about the fact that China was making hundreds of billions of dollars a year, and I guess they didnt see it. I mean, 25 years they didnt see it, but we see it, and right now, theyre paying us billions and billions of dollars, folks, billions. And they want to make a deal badly, and well see whether or not well make a deal. Well see. Well see, but our farmers are being helped. I said to our secretary of agriculture, Sonny Perdue, because China, very smart. I dont blame them. Look, Im not blaming them. I blame our past leaders for allowing it to happen.  Im not blaming China. We shouldve done that to them. I blame our past leaders. I said that to President Xi of China. I said it, but I said to Sonny Perdue, So, Sonny, theyre targeting us. They said. They actually took ads in the Des Moines register, anti-Trump. I love Iowa, too. It says Iowa loves you. I love Iowa. Well, ethanol is doing pretty well in Iowa, too, right? But they took ads in the Iowa papers, and it was anti-Trump ads, right? And then, they stopped buying a lot of the product, almost everything. They stopped buying from our farmers because they knew that was my strength. The whole middle of the country is red. You saw that in the clip. That clip was fantastic. By the way, Charlie, that clip was so good, I wouldve rather seen it a second time, and I couldve come on a little bit later. I like it, but that clip was great. But you see, the whole centers all bright red, meaning Republican, all read, and just those little edges are blue. So, they targeted the red. Nobodys said Chinas stupid, and they said, Were not going to buy product. And essentially, they really closed it up.  So, were taking in billions of dollars in tariffs from China. They never gave us 25 cents, and I said to my Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdues great, I said, Sonny, whats the biggest year that weve ever had with China? How much money did they spend in the United States? Sir, Ill get back to you. He gets back to me the next day. Sir, $16 billion. I say, All right. Well take $16 billion out of our tariffs, which are many times that amount that they are paying us in tariffs. They never paid us 25 cents. Well take $16 billion out. Thats the highest theyve ever paid, and well use that toward the farmers and distribute it. This way, nobody gets hurt. And no other presidents doing that for the farmers, or no other presidents going to save the miners and save energy. Were the number one producer of energy now in the world, and when I came, it was heading in the wrong direction. It was heading in a very bad direction. Right now, were bigger than Russia and bigger than Saudi Arabia and bigger than anybody. And we know that our first duty and our one true allegiance is to the American nation and to the American citizen, the usa.  Loyalty to our people is our guiding light. Its our north star and our unwavering conviction. We have secured record funding to build up awesome might for the United States military because we know the best way to prevent conflict is to be prepared for it. So, when youre strong, strong, strong, its okay. Theyre going to leave you alone. They said, Lets pass. We had a depleted military. We built up our military. We had jets so well they didnt fly. We had a large percentage of fighter jets that were out. We had that old Navy. Were building brand new submarines, brand new ships. Were building tremendous F35s, F18s. Were building a military, the likes of which even we have never had because we have to. New missiles, we make the greatest equipment in the world. I hate to mention this word, but were renewing and renovating our nuclear arsenal like never before, and we hope to God that we never have to use it. Thats what I say. We hope to God we never have to use it, but we have to have it ready. We have to have it as a horrible, to me, the most horrible alternative that can happen is that, but we have nuclear, the likes of which nobodys ever had, like we have, and all pray that we never have to use it.  Our agenda is pro-worker and pro-family. Were making childcare more affordable, expanding access to vocational education, so important, and our pledge to Americas workers had secured commitments to provide more than nine million apprenticeships and job opportunities for industries all over the country. Were helping people get jobs. Were helping Walmart and so many companies. They went out. They went all out. They went all out, and theyre working. And theyre working with a person you may have heard of, perhaps not, Ivanka Trump. She loves it. She loves it. She loves it. Ill tell you, she didnt need it. She loves it. More than anything, thats what she loves because she says were providing so many jobs, and theyre training people. And the government cant really train them. When you go into these big companies, the Caterpillars and all of these, youve got to sort of be trained by the people that do it, the complexity, the aerospace. Lockheed Martin has been great. Boeing has been great. Theres so many, and they can train much better than the government. The government, really, wouldnt know where to begin. So, theyre training. Were going to have close to 10 million very shortly, and Ivanka really has done an incredible job on that.  I might as well give her credit because the media will never give her credit. Shes my daughter. Ill give her credit, but its true, and you know what? If she didnt do a good job, I dont know that Id say that, but I wouldnt be talking about her. That I can tell you. Id probably just fluff over it. Shes done an incredible job. Theres truly never been a better time to be young and American. Theres never been a better time because our future is the brightest than its ever been. A new poll only  Youve got to hear this. How about this whole witch hunt thats going on? Should I talk about it for a second? The Russian witch hunt, okay? First of all, its very bad for our country. Makes it very hard to deal with Russia, and we should be able to. Theyre a nuclear power. They have a big country, and we should be able to deal with them without having this artificial stuff, but think of it. Only 11% in a new poll favor the starting of this ridiculous impeachment hearings that are going on. You hear about it. So, I said this morning, I wrote it out. I said, Lets see, because Im watching. It goes on for years and years and years, no collusion, no obstruction. Oh, thats not good enough. Lets go more. $40 million dollars, interview 500 people, theyve got nothing. I could find something. I could take anybody in this audience. Give me 40 million, give me unlimited FBI, unlimited interviews. They interviewed 500 people. Listen to this, 2500 subpoenas, they did everything. The collusion, no collusion, they have no collusion. Then, I have an article, too, where I have the right to do whatever I want as president, but I dont even talk about that because they did a report, and there was no obstruction. After looking at it, our great Attorney General read it. Hes a total professional. He said, Theres nothing here. Theres no obstruction.  So, they referenced no obstruction. So, you have no collusion, no obstruction, and yet, it goes on. And they think this is helping them. I personally think its hurting them. A lot of people think its very bad for them, but it just goes on. I wrote something out this morning on a thing called Twitter, whether we like it or not. It is a good way of getting the word out because I saw Muellers testifying tomorrow again. How many times? Two-and-a-half years, and actually, it started practically from the time I came down on the escalator. They said, Hes got good numbers. We better start looking at him right away. Maybe hes dealing with a foreign country. Im saying, What are you talking about? Listen to this. I wrote this out this morning. I said on Twitter, Well, lets see. We have the best economy in history, and it used to be its the economys stupid, right? Its the economy, nothing else. Its the economys stupid. So, we have the best economy in history, the best employment numbers in history, the most people working, almost 160 million, in the history of our country. The most people working, thats a big number.  So, we have the best economy, the best unemployment numbers, most people working. On Thursday, we have the highest stock market in the history of our country, and a lot of you with 401(k)s, now, thats not a rich people thing. The people that own that stock are people with 401(k)s, everything else. We have the best stock market in the history of our country. We just got the biggest tax and regulation cuts in the history of our country. We got rid of the individual mandate from Obamacare, which was the worst part of Obamacare. We got, perhaps, the biggest energy site in the world approved in Alaska called ANWR. Nobody could do it from Ronald Reagan to present, they said, Cant do it. We got ANWR approved. We have the best and newest military that weve ever had, almost totally rebuilt from the depleted military that I inherited two-and-a-half years ago. Our military was totally depleted from these ridiculous, endless wars. So, we have the best, newest military in history, and the VA, you dont hear any problems anymore, do you? Remember, youd hear so many problems. We have the best VA in history, and I got choice.  Thats one of the things thats working so that if a person has to wait for three weeks, four weeks, five weeks, can you imagine you go to a doctor, they say come back in six weeks? People were coming back that were sick, and they were coming back, and they were terminal. They couldve been saved. They were waiting so long. So, Ive got choice. If you have to wait, you go out, you see a doctor, we pay the bill, okay? The least important things is we save money. Thats the least important thing in that case, but we do save money, but we also have a very happy VA. They love it. Those are just a few of the things. So, we have all of this, the best economy, best market, best military, best VA, best everything and much, much more. And then, I say in this statement this morning, Gee, lets impeach the president. I mean, you figured. These people have gone totally crazy. Theyve gone totally crazy. It is sort of nuts. Thats true. I guess that was a Clinton statement, right? Its the economys stupid. Is that Clinton? But its not everything about the economy. Its not everything, a lot of other things, but were at the top of every single thing that we do.  When you think our military, and you look at  And let me tell you something I didnt put. We are respected as a country again. They respect us because other countries have been ripping us off so badly, and some of the worst offenders are our so-called allies. They rip us off on trade. European Union is worse to us on trade than China, okay? Nobody would think that. A lot of us come from European Union. We come from Europe, our grandparents, our great-grandparents. So, you think, Oh, isnt that nice? Except they kill us, the European Union. It was formed in order to beat us economically, and yet, we protect them with NATO. So, they rip us off on trade, and we protect them with military, but heres the problem with the protection. Theyre not paying their bills. So, they United States, Ive got a $100 billion more on the last two years, 100 billion. I got them to pay. I said, You got to pay. Nobody else has ever done that. It was like this with every other president. President Obama would go meet them. He talked nice, I dont know, to me, not so nice.  Some people would say, Oh, isnt that a wonderful speech? I said, No. I fell asleep during that speech. I fell asleep. I dont get it. I dont get it. He never got crowds like we get. That, I can tell you. So, weve got to be doing something right, but think of this. So, they werent paying their bills. So, were paying for close to 100% of NATO. So, heres the story. They rip us off on trade. They have trade barriers that make it impossible for certain groups like farmers and others to go in. They rip us in trade, and then, we protect them, and they rip us on that, too, and they dont pay their bills. Other than that, its a wonderful deal. So, were getting it straightened out, folks. Were getting it straightened out. Somebody said, President Obama is much more popular in Germany than Donald Trump. Well, he should be. He should be because Germany is the biggest offender. They dont pay. Theyre paying one percent. Were paying 4.3% of a much bigger GDP. Germany doesnt want to pay. Theyre supposed to pay two percent. Theyre paying one percent, and I say, You got to pay, Angela. Youve got to pay, Angela. Please pay, Angela.  And then, they say, Who do you like better, Obama or President Trump? Oh, I like President Obama. He was a . Look, if I start getting good poll numbers over there, Im not doing my job, okay? Thats the way it is. Thats true. Im not doing my job. But they still like me, and I have a good relationship and a great relationship with some, but somehow, even in this era of unprecedented prosperity and peace, the timeless traditions and values that make the American dream possible are under attack like no one has ever seen before. These people have lost all control, and even the Democrats, theyre left, but now, theyre getting dragged into a radical left position. I cant imagine whos doing that, but theyre being dragged radical left with these people that I believe, honestly, I believe they hate our country, okay? I believe they hate our country, and its true. When I watched this maniac Tlaib screaming and shouting, and this was before she was a Congress person. Can you believe it?  But screaming and shouting, out of control, and then, you see now they have another clip where shes even worse. This is representing us? This is not what we want representing us, I dont think. And I think its why were going to have a tremendous victory in 2020. These people are crazy. And when I have one of the others, I guess this is Cortez. I said, Im not going . Sir, her name is Alexandria, and the guy couldnt figure out her second name. It was so funny. Im being interviewed by one of you. Her, her name is Alexandria. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, sir. Okay. He never got it out. He never found his notes. I said, Thats okay. I told him, Just call her Cortez because I dont have time to call her by the whole name. Its too long. Its true. Youre doing an interview, but she called our country and our people garbage. She said garbage. Thats worst than deplorable. Remember deplorable? Oh, yes, you do. Remember Hilary, the deplorables. She actually said a word that was worse. She said deplorables, and what was the second word? Irredeemables. Thats right. She said irredeemables. She said- She said deplorables and irredeemables, and when she said it, I said, Boy, that irredeemables is really a bad   Well, that was not the one. You never know in politics, right? Its a tough business. You say a word, and youre gone. One wrong word, you can make 20 great speeches, brilliant. They say, Hes great, the greatest orator, the greatest orator of our times. Hes the great. One word, and youre gone, except for Trump because we represent you, because we represent you. Thank you. Thank you. No, but its true. Its a tough business. One word, and youre gone. Its an incredible kind of a profession to have. Thats why theyre scared. They ago around. Theyre petrified. Theyre petrified that theyre going to insult 15 people and lose an election by calling out these four people, The Squad. By calling them out because we dont like when they talk about evil Jews. We dont like when they say horrible things about Israel. People are opposed to Israel, and they can express their opposition, but when they say it with venom, hatred, and language that nobody would use, nobody would use, its incredible, and then, you dont have the Democrats fighting for Israel, and they end up passing things that have nothing to do with what the original problem was. You saw that. So, I dont know what theyre going to do. I dont know. They have a big problem because they others in these four. I could name another 20 right now without looking at a note. I could name another 20 that I think are, in many ways, worse. Theyre worse. Theyre not in this group, but theyre worse than this group, and theyre Democrats, and at some point, we will be naming them, if you dont mind, because we want to get the word out. We have to get the word out.  As conservatives, were grateful for the great heritage that we have, the heritage of being an American. Its so important to all of us. We know that America is the most just and virtuous republic ever conceived. I mean, we fight for other countries. I was with other countries two weeks ago, and we had the G20, and Im talking to different people. Who do you fight for? Just our country. Who do you fight for? Just our country. Who do you fight for? And we fight for all these countries, and it costs us a fortune, and some of the countries are really wealthy. By the way, Ive gone to all of them saying they have to now pay for their military. Okay. If you dont mind that, okay. They havent done it. I mean, were fighting for countries that are so wealthy, some have nothing but cash. Nobody ever asks them, Why arent you paying us for this? Why arent you reimbursing us for the cost? But we now ask those questions. On the Straits, so, we get very little oil from the Straits anymore. In fact, yesterday, it was very interesting. They said, Its very interesting. There are no USA tankers here. Theyre all from China, from Japan.  China gets 65% of their oil from the Straits, right? Japan gets 25%. Other countries get a lot. And I said, So, let me ask you just a really stupid question. We hardly use it. Were getting 10% only because we sort of feel an obligation to do it. We dont need it. Weve become an exporter. Can you believe it? Were an exporter now. We dont need it. And yet, were the ones that, for many, many decades, were the ones that policed it. We never got reimbursed. We police it for all these other countries, and I said a while ago, I said, Why are we policing for China? Very rich. For Japan? Very rich. For all these other   And were policing also for countries, some of whom were very friendly with, like Saudi Arabia and others, UAE, others, too. But-   Saudi Arabia, and others, UIE, others too. But why are we doing it without  Why do we have our ships there, and were putting our ships in the site. We did shoot down that drone the other day. Its funny, for religious people, they lie a lot. They lie a lot. You can see it laying right down on the bottom of that beautiful bed of water. They say they never shot down a drone, then they say about, We have captured 17 Americans, I said, No, no, thats  First thing I did, I call up the CIA, Sir, totally false. Okay. By the way, totally false, but they make up stories. I just say, for religious people, they lie a lot.  We know the story of America is the story of good defeating evil. We protect so many people, and in some cases we shouldnt have been doing it. Its right overcoming wrong, and its freedom smashing tyranny. Americans are the patriots who threw off an empire, won an independence, settled the wild west, ended slavery, secured civil rights, pushed the boundaries of science, vanquished the Nazis, brought Communism to its knees, and put a man on the moon many, many years ago.  We will become the first nation to land astronauts on Mars where they will proudly plant a very beautiful American flag. Yet, despite all that we have achieved, despite the glory and grandeur of our nation, the radical left has nothing but contempt for American heritage. Im talking about the radical left among us, Im not talking about the radical left that are looking over failed countries like Venezuela and others, Im talking about the radical left among us. They see our history as a source of shame, our traditions and our victories as relics to be replaced, our values as obstacles to be removed, our citizens as subjects to be controlled, and America as a menace to be constrained. Thats what they say, thats what they say.  The agenda of the radical left is one of division, discord, and demolition. When I see her running, and ranting, and screaming like a total lunatic, this is what were dealing with. You can never have a country with values like that, just look at it. Theres no reasoning. The language she uses. I mean, she was throwing a certain F bomb, right? Do we know the F? She was throwing that out about the presidency, and about the president, and such a sad thing to see how low have we gone. The far left has one fundamental objective, and thats the objective of power. The power to control you, the power to control your family, and the power to destroy the foundations of our great republic. But we will not let them. It will never happen. It will never happen.  It will never happen. Theyre, right now, destroying themselves, and theyre going after everything, theyre doing things that nobody can believe. The people that Im looking, they said, Whos your toughest opponent? I said, So far, I dream about these people that Im looking at. There is no Winston Churchill in the midst, there is nobody that we look at. But you have to be very careful. Socialism is not as easy to beat as you think. When youre wealthy, and youre doing record stock, so you have 401ks, and you have all of the things that you have, and everybodys doing well. Somebody comes along, says, Were going to give you free everything, everythings going to be free. By the way, were going to raise your taxes to 75%. But they dont mean that, because they cant nearly pay, 90%, and that wont pay for it either. Wont even come close.  Were going to do the Green New Deal, which is the craziest thing Ive ever heard. Its crazy. But dont kid yourself, not as easy when Im up there on the debate all alone with some maniac that they chose. That maniac is saying. Were going to do this for you, were going to do that for you, were going to give you everything. Were going to give you  Everybody gets a free Rolls-Royce. Every family. Were going to take better care of illegal immigrants than we take care of our citizens, they tell you. When theyre saying all of this stuff, and then those illegals get out and vote, because they vote anyway. Dont kid yourself, those numbers that California and numerous other states, theyre rigged. You got people voting that shouldnt be voting.  They vote many times, not just twice, not just three times. Its like a circle. They come back, they put a new hat on. They come back, they put a new shirt on. In many cases, they dont even do that. You know whats going on. Its a rigged deal. For example, the radical left is waging an unprecedented assault on the rule of law in America. They are. They want to eliminate our borders and totally abolish ICE, and now they want to abolish a thing called Homeland Security.  That means going on airplanes without any security, that means doing all of the things that you do, and you appreciate it, but you dont even see whats going on. But they now want to abolish Homeland  They started off with ICE. Let me tell you, these ICE people are great patriots. Thats a tough job. They go into these MS-13 gangs, and even your local law enforcement. We love our law enforcement. We love our law enforcement. These gangs are mean, theyre tough. They deal in a medieval style. They cut people up medieval style, because its more painful. These are sick people. We dont want them. Were taking them out by the thousands out of our country, by the thousands.  With raging anger, ignorance, and malice, the far left has slandered, libeled, and speared our law enforcement heroes. They just go after our law enforcement, its so sad to see. Theyre so respected, and yet they dont know it because all they do is they see the negativity put on by the media. The American people forcefully reject these hate filled attacks, and thats what they do, the hate filled, and they are indeed attacks, on our very brave public servants. Americans will always stand with courageous men and women of ICE, and border patrol, and law enforcement, always.  The hard left is also waging war against freedom of speech. The greatest threat to this radical left agenda is the truth. The problem is, were not getting the truth from the media, for the most part. Some, yes. But for the most part, we dont get the truth. I can tell you stories where Ill do something, and lets say its good, theyll make it look bad. Lets say its great, things that you cant look bad, you cant  Theyll make it look okay. And if its bad  That is correct. That is correct. What theyre doing is unthinkable, and theyve hurt themselves so badly. Theyll say, Seven sources have said that this took place in the White House, or something. There are no seven sources, they make them up. They make them up. There are no  They have gone  They used to call up and say, Wed like to just verify this statement, or verify a quote. They dont even call up anymore. We dont hear from The New York Times, which is totally crooked. We dont hear from The New York Times, The Washington Post, which is the Amazon, I always say its the Amazon lobbyists. We dont hear from these people. They dont call up and say, Wed like to check a quote.  I dont see anymore where they say, Jim Smith of the White House made the following statement. Its always, A source, who decided to remain anonymous from the White House. Sometimes theyll say, Seven people from the White  they dont exist. Its a lie. They dont check, they dont do anything. Theyre really, really dishonest people. Ill tell you, when I say the enemy of the people, when I say the fake news, when I say these things, Im not kidding. Its really dishonest. They have become, they like the word unhinged, they have become, the media has become totally unhinged. They used to call. When I was a  I used to get the greatest publicity. When I was doing buildings, I was happy, no problems. I was doing buildings, I didnt have to worry about North Korea, Iran. I didnt have to worry about China and trade. You think its easy beating China on trade, guess what, were beating them on trade. Were beating them on a lot. Were beating everybody. But its not easy.  I used to get the best publicity. Now I havent had a good story in two and a half years. Im dying for my first good story, theyre going to give me one someday. I think when I get one, it will be time. Ill say, Ive just achieved something. Ill say, First Lady, they love our First Lady. Its the First Lady. They love our First Lady. Ill say, First Lady, I just got a good story. Its time to hang it up. Its time. Some day were going to get them. Were going to get them, because nobodys done what weve done in two and a half years. Nobody even close. Weve done in the first two and a half years more than any president in the history of our country.  Anyone who speaks the truth is shouted down, censored, de platformed, fired, expelled, harassed, intimidated, abused, and even, in many cases, assaulted. The dont go after certain of our people. Bikers for Trump, you ever seen these guys? The bikers. They leave them alone, our construction workers, they leave them alone. Our law enforcement, they leave them alone. Anybody that looks real tough and real nasty, they leave them alone. They only go after somebody that stands there and is not a fighter, nothing wrong with that, and they beat the hell out of them, and they pummel him like what happened two weeks ago. They pummel him. Thats the only one they go after. Theyll go after that. They say, Is he a fighter? No, lets hit him over the head with sticks and bats, what they do.  Its a horrible thing. But they dont do it to many of our people, but they look for the people that arent the fighters. These dangerous behaviors are the hallmarks of socialism, but socialism cannot survive when people are free to think for themselves. Thats why America will never be a socialist country, its never going to happen.  Thank you. Because as patriots we cherish our first amendment, we believe that every American has the God given right to speak his or her mind, and no one can ever take away that right. For centuries, Americans freely exchanged their ideas in the public square. Now the public square exists online, and massive, multi-national tech companies have gained enormous power to sensor opinions, shape public perception, and really to decide what information citizens are going to be given. I see it all the time, I see it on social media for me. I have people coming up all the time, We want to follow you sir, they make it so hard to follow you. I have millions and millions of people, but it should be much more. I know exactly whats happening. I know when it started. But the only thing I do say is this, its happened from the beginning. Facebook, Twitter, Google, all of them. They come to me when they want help.  They want help because the Democrats want to shut them down, can you believe it? How stupid is that for them? But maybe they dont have the power that we think, because they were totally against me in the election, and Im standing now before you as the President of the United States, so maybe they dont have the power.  Maybe they dont. I dont know. Everyone tells me when you read, they talk about this tremendous power, and Im saying, Thats right, theyre making it impossible. Then somebody will look at me, But sir, you won. But theyre gaining more, and more, and more, and were looking at a lot of things, because they have not treated us as Republicans and conservatives. Even when you get into religion, they have not treated us fairly. They havent treated us fairly. A free society cannot allow social media giants to silence the voices of the people. That is why Ive asked my administration to explore every possible regulatory and legislative solution, because you have to have free speech. You have to have free speech. Ive also instructed federal agencies to hold our public colleges and universities accountable when they do numbers. You go up to speak, and what they do to our people is just  By the way, Im President, of all the people, everybody. Everybody. I love everybody. I have people maybe I shouldnt love. I love this nation. This nation is made up not only of us, its made up of everybody.  But what they do is so unfair. Any college that refuses now to respect your first amendment rights will be asking for billions and billions of dollars, and they wont be getting it. They wont be getting it. Signed.  All signed up, anyone can become a target of the lefts brutal campaign to punish to . Hey, Im the number one target in the world, and here we are. But Im the number one target. Whos more of a target than me? No matter what you do, Im the great target for these people, these people are crazy. Earlier this year, in Park City, Utah, a leftist released pepper spray into a high school auditorium to shut down a Turning Point USA meeting. 20 students and teachers had to immediately seek major medical attention. Think of that. One of the students from that school joins us today, Ryan Zinc. Where are you Ryan? Get over here, Ryan, come on up, come up. Come up here.  Come up here, Ryan.  Say a few words. Great job. You know, he had no idea that was going to happen, but he started to like it. I said, You know, this could be a long time. Hell be in office someday, or doing something fantastic. Thank you, Ryan, great job.  In May, faculty at West Haven High School in Connecticut tried to ban the local chapter of Turning Point USA because students hung up a sign that read, America is the best country in the world. Can you believe that?  It is the best country in the world. One board of education member viciously smeared the students as racists, sexists, bullies who are brainwashed by their Republican parents. But the attacks have only strengthened the groups resolve, and membership has skyrocketed since then. We are winning, we are winning.  With us today is that Turning Point USA chapter president, Dan Gallipoli. Dan, I want to just thank you for that fight. Wheres Dan? Dan, do you want to come up, Dan? Come on up, Dan. He wants to come up. Come up. Come on up. Come on up here, Dan.  . Come on up. Great job. .  Whoa. Thats fantastic, Dan. Now I see why hes president of his chapter. Who wants to fight him? Thank you, Dan, great job. Last year Hunter Richer, wheres Hunter? Hunter, do you want to come up, Hunter? Come on up, Hunter.  Hunters a high school sophomore in San Antonio, Texas. Great place. He just wanted to get hamburger with a couple of his friends, and Hunter happened to be wearing a beautiful red cap, that said Make America Great Again. A 30-year-old man flew into a rage, stole Hunters hat. Oh, I knew that, that was a pretty famous deal, that was all over the place, right? Threw a drink at him, and called him a racial slur. Thankfully it was all captured on video, and the assailant was arrested and .  We all watched that event many times, that scene many times. Hunter, thank you for your courage. That was fantastic the way you handled it, thank you. . Wow. Thank you. Great future. Thank you. Boy, Ill tell you. Thank you very much, thats what theyre afraid of. Did you see the other side? Did you see they have some comedian? Third rate comedian. Hes going, and he really means it. You know hes going to win, dont you? They go, Well, maybe. You know hes going to win. You know that in six years, you know its going to happen. Hes not leaving, you know that. Hes never going to leave, you know it. Hes not leaving. These people are insane. He believes it. Thank you, Hunter, that was great. Great job.  You know that our movement stands for patriotism, confidence, excellence, liberty, justice, support for our military. Love for America, and loyalty to our nation and all of its people. Were together. We all stand together for American greatness. Even at such a young age, the members of your generation are proving that our hearts and souls are all wound together, we are unbridled in our love for our country, we are truly American patriots. Remember that. Keep America great.  Right. The forces of political correctness want to silence conservative students to make you feel alone, marginalized, and isolated, and you are not. Just look around you at this incredible record setting crowd. Many, many people outside, too. I hate to tell you, I hate to tell them. They didnt do as well, but they have a screen. Its not as good, not quite the same, but we do the best we can. Youre not alone. The silent majority is silent no more. Your moment in the sun is just beginning. The story of America has always been written by everyday citizens who love their country so much, they could not help but speak out. Thats what happens, thats why these three young, incredible people came up here. Would you like to speak, Hunter? Yes, sir. Most people go, Oh, I dont know sir. Oh maybe not. These people, its like all three of them. Ryan, you want to speak again, Ryan? Yes, sir, I do.  These are great people, these are people with courage. Many of them were young, barely older than all of you. George Washington was just 21 years old when he received his first military command. Decades later, he chose a 20- year-old Alexander Hamilton to be his top aid. Betsy Ross was 24 when she began sewing the first American flag. You think about it, shes probably more important now than she was two or three weeks ago when this stupid thing by Nike was done. Theyre a tenant of mine, they pay me a lot of rent, I probably wont see those checks anymore, but I dont care, because Im president. I dont care about that.  Amelia Earhart was only 23 when she took her first flying lesson, on her way to becoming an aviation pioneer. Martin Luther King was 26 when he marched for justice through the streets of Montgomery, Alabama. General Dwight Eisenhower and General Douglas MacArthur were both in their early 20s when they graduated from West Point, never imagining they would some day save the world from tyranny. From the very beginning, America has been lifted even higher by the daring dreams of young Americans like each and every one of you.  Now its your turn to inspire our country, your chance to choose greatness for America, because your time has come. Your time is now. The choices you make over the next few years will shape much more than your own future. They will forever shape Americas destiny. Your choices, your leaders, your great leaders, you will be, some of you in this room will be the great leaders of our country. A couple of you may be standing essentially here someday, in a position where you can do so much. In mere months, some of you may take your first steps down a path that someday lead to discovering new breakthroughs in science, saving lives in medicine, leading a revolution in technology, upholding our values in public service, protecting our communities in law enforcement, defending our freedom in the military, or leading humanity into the stars.  As long as you are confident in your values, as long as you are loyal to our citizens, as long as you keep faith in God above, there is no limit to what you will achieve. You are the ones who are lifting our nation in the very near future. I have no doubt you will do it to soaring new heights. I have no doubt. I see the people in this room. Theres greatness in this room, theres greatness in this room. Remember I said it. Someday youre going to think back to this day, and youre going to say, You know, I remember President Trump saying theres greatness in this room. Youre going to be not only speaking about yourself, youre going to be speaking about others in the room who you know are going to rise to great heights with you. You are the ones who are bringing about the incredible rebirth of the American spirit. You are the ones who will make this moment a turning point, a true historical moment. This generation, your generation, will make the light and the glory of America shine brighter, and longer, and prouder than ever before.  I want to congratulate you, youve had a long journey, but your journey has just begun. I want to thank you for being here. May God bless you, and may God bless America. Thank you, thank you."
"Its a true privilege to be back in the Great Commonwealth of Virginia. And, its a tremendous honor to stand on these historic grounds as the first President to address a joint session of the oldest lawmaking body in all of the Western Hemisphere, the Virginia General Assembly. Congratulations.  On this day 400 years ago, here on the shores of the James River, the first representative legislative assembly in the new world convened. By the devotion of generations of patriots, it has flourished throughout the ages, and now that proud tradition continues with all of you.  To every Virginian, and every legislator with us today, congratulations on four incredible centuries of history, heritage, and commitment to the righteous cause of American self-government. This is truly a momentous occasion.  I want to thank the governor of Virginia for inviting me to speak at this very important event, and with us this morning, our many distinguished guests and officials from across the Commonwealth, including Lieutenant Governor Justin Fairfax. Thank you very much.  Speaker, Kirk Cox. Thank you, Kirk. Thank you. Thank you, Kirk.  Senate Majority Leader, Tommy Norment. Thank you. Thank you. Tommy. Thank you.  And members of the host, and other federal, state, local and tribal leaders, all with us today. Thank you very much.  Were also very thankful as well to have with us Secretary Ben Carson. Ben, thank you very much. Wherever you may be. Thank you, Ben.  And Acting Director, a person that you know very well, Acting Director Ken Cuccinelli. Spent a lot of time with you, folks, and has a lot of respect for you.  And the terrific people at the Department of the Interior and the National Park Service. I want to thank you all for being here with us. Its a great honor.  I also want to recognize everyone at American Evolution and the Jamestown Settlement, the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation, the Jamestown Rediscovery Project and Preservation Virginia. Thank you very much. What a great job you do. Thank you.  The fact is that each of you has helped protect and preserve our national treasures here at Jamestown, and its a great debt. We owe you a great, great debt. Thank you. What a job.  On this day in 1619, just a mile south of where we are gathered now, 22 newly elected members of the House of Burgesses assembled in a small wooden church. They were adventurers and explorers, farmers and planters, soldiers, scholars, and clergyman.  All had struggled. All had suffered, and all had sacrificed in pursuit of one wild and very improbable dream. They called that dream, Virginia.  It had been only 13 years since three small ships, the Susan Constant, the Godspeed, and the Discovery, set sail across the vast ocean. They carried 104 settlers to carve out a home on the edge of this uncharted continent.  They came from God and country. They came in search of opportunity and fortune, and they journeyed into the unknown with only meager supplies, long odds, and the power of their Christian faith.  Upon reaching Cape Henry at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay, in 1607 a long time ago, the first men of the Virginia company erected a cross upon the shore. They gave thanks to God and asked his blessing for their great undertaking. In the months and years ahead, they would dearly need it. The dangers were unparalleled.  The Jamestown settlers arrived in America amid one of the worst droughts in over seven centuries. Of 104 original colonists, 66 died by the years end. During the third winter, known as the starving time, a population of up to 500 settlers was reduced to 60.  By spring, those who remained were in search of whatever they could get to survive, and they were in dire trouble. They left Jamestown deserted. They just sailed away, never to come back. But they had not gone far down the James River when they encountered the answer to their prayers, ships bearing a years worth of supplies, and more than 300 new settlers.  As we can see today on this great anniversary, it would not be the last time that God looked out for Virginia. Together, the settlers forged what would become the timeless traits of the American character. They worked hard. They had courage and abundance, and a wealth of self-reliance. They strived mightily to turn a profit. They experimented with producing silk, corn, tobacco, and the very first Virginia wines.  At a prior settlement at Roanoke, there had been no survivors, none at all. But where others had typically perished, the Virginians were determined to succeed. They endured by the sweat of their labor, the aid of the Powhatan Indians, and the leadership of Captain John Smith.  As the years passed, ships bearing supplies and settlers from England also brought a culture and a way of life that would define the new world. It all began here.  In time, dozens of brave, strong women made the journey and joined the colony. And in 1618, the Great Charter and other reforms, established a system based on English common law.  For the first time, Virginia allowed private land ownership. It created a basic judicial system. Finally, it gave the colonists a say in their own future, the right to elect representatives by popular vote.  With us today in tribute to that English legal inheritance is the former clerk of the British House of Commons, Sir David Natzler. Thank you, David. Thank you. Sir David, we are thrilled to have you with us. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much, David.  At that first American assembly in 1619, the weather was so hot that one legislator actually died. Mercifully, the session was cut very short. But before adjourning, the assembly passed laws on taxation, agriculture, and trade with the Indians.  With true American optimism, the assembly even endorsed a plan to build a world class university, in this still-rugged wilderness. It was a vision that would one day be fulfilled just miles from here, at one of Americas earliest educational institutions, the esteemed College of William and Mary. Great place. Great place.  As we mark the first representative legislature at Jamestown, our nation also reflects upon an anniversary from that same summer, four centuries ago. In August, 1619, the first enslaved Africans in the English colonies arrived in Virginia. It was the beginning of a barbaric trade in human lives. Today in honor, we remember every sacred soul who suffered the horrors of slavery and the anguish of bondage.  More than 150 years later, at Americas founding, our Declaration of Independence recognized the immortal truth that all men are created equal. Yet, it would ultimately take a civil war, 85 years after that document was signed, to abolish the evil of slavery.  It would take more than another century for our nation, in the words of Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., to live out the true meaning of its creed, and extend the blessings of freedom to all Americans.  In the face of grave oppression and grave injustice, African Americans have built, strengthened, inspired, uplifted, protected, defended, and sustained our nation from its very earliest days.  Last year, I was privileged to sign the law establishing a commission to commemorate the arrival of the first Africans to the English colonies, and the 400 years of African American history that have followed.  That was an incredible day. That was an incredible event. Today, we are grateful to be joined by that commissions chairman, Dr. Joseph Green. Thank you, Dr. Green, please. Thank you. Thank you very much. Dr. Green.  In the decades that followed that first legislative assembly, the democratic tradition established here lay deep roots all across Virginia. It spread up and down the Atlantic coast.  One fact was quickly established for all time. In America, we are not ruled from afar. Americans govern ourselves, and so help us, God, we always will.  Right here in Virginia, your predecessors- Thank you very much, thank you.  Right here in Virginia, your predecessors came to Williamsburg from places you all know very well. They were named such as George Washington, from Fairfax County. Thomas Jefferson, from Albemarle County. James Madison, from Orange County. James Monroe, from Spotsylvania County. Patrick Henry, from Louisa County. George Mason, from Fairfax County. George With, W-I-T-H, thats a great name, from Williamsburg. And Richard Henry Lee, from Westmoreland County. Incredible names, incredible names.  Self government in Virginia did not just give us a state we love. In a very true sense, it gave us the country we love, the United States of America. So true. Thank you very much.  When Madison drafted the First Amendment to our constitution, he drew inspiration from Virginias Statute for Religious Freedom. As John Adams wrote in Philadelphia, just before the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, we all look up to Virginia for examples. Great. Its so great.  And when Patrick Henry rose to speak his famous words at St. Johns Church in Richmond, Give me liberty or give me death, he spoke in defense of a tradition that began more than 150 years before at Jamestown. Right here.  It was a heritage those patriots would fight a long war of independence to defend, and it is a heritage that countless Americans have fought and died for to secure in all of those centuries since. In our time, we must vigorously defend those cherished democratic traditions that have made our beloved republic the envy of the entire world. And it still is, as much as ever before, and maybe more.  Our hard-won culture of self-government must be nourished, protected, and constantly preserved. That is why we must speak out strongly against anyone who would take power away from citizens, individuals, and state governments such as yours. In America, the people will forever rule. The people will forever reign, and the people will forever be sovereign.  From the first legislative assembly down to today, America has been the story of citizens who take ownership of their future and their control of their destiny. That is what self-rule is all about, everyday Americans coming together to take action, to build, to create, to seize opportunities, to pursue the common good, and to never stop striving for greatness.  Four centuries ago, one early voyager to Jamestown captured the spirit of confidence and daring that has always powered our great experiment in self-government. He wrote, We hope to plant a nation where none before hath stood. That was something.  In that hope, the men and women of Jamestown achieved success beyond anything they could possibly have imagined. They started the nation that settled the wilderness, won our independence, tamed the Wild West, ended slavery, secured civil rights, invented the airplane, vanquished the Nazis, brought communism to its knees, and placed our great American flag on the face of the moon.  And in a program thats just started, someday very soon, American astronauts will plant our beautiful stars and stripes on the surface of Mars.  But among all of Americas towering achievements, none exceeds the triumph that we are here to celebrate today. Our nations priceless culture of freedom, independence, equality, justice, and self-determination under God.  That culture is the source of who we are. It is our prized inheritance. It is our proudest legacy. It is among the greatest human accomplishments in the history of the world. What you have done is the greatest accomplishment in the history of the world, and I congratulate you. It started right here.  Now, we must go bravely into the future, just as those bold explorers first ventured into this majestic land. We must call upon the same scale of imagination, the same thirst for knowledge, the same love of adventure, the same unrelenting courage, and the same total determination to prevail.  Above all, we must be proud of our heritage, united in our purpose, and filled with confidence in our shared great, great, great American destiny.  For in America, no challenge is too great. No journey is too tough. No task is too large. No dream is beyond our reach. When we set our sight on the summit, nothing can stand in our way. America always gets the job done. America always wins.  That is why after 400 years of glorious American democracy, we have returned here to this place to declare to all the world that the United States of America and the Great Commonwealth of Virginia are just getting started.  Our future is bigger, bolder, better, and brighter than ever before. Its been a great honor for me to be with you this morning. Id like to thank you. God bless you. God bless Virginia, and God bless America. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you."
"Good morning. My fellow Americans, this morning our nation is overcome with shock, horror, and sorrow. This weekend, more than 80 people were killed or wounded in two evil attacks. On Saturday morning in El Paso, Texas, a wicked man went to a Walmart store where families were shopping with their loved ones. He shot and murdered 20 people and injured 26 others, including precious little children. Then in the early hours of Sunday morning, Dayton, Ohio, another twisted monster opened fire on a crowded downtown street. He murdered nine people, including his own sister, and injured 27 others.  The First Lady and I join all Americans in praying and grieving for the victims, their families, and the survivors. We will stand by their side forever. We will never forget. These barbaric s s are an assault upon our communities, an attack upon our nation, and a crime against all of humanity. We are outraged and sickened by this monstrous evil, the cruelty, the hatred, the malice, the bloodshed, and the terror. Our hearts are shattered for every family whose parents, children, husbands, and wives were ripped from their arms and their lives. America weeps for the fallen. We are a loving nation, and our children are entitled to grow up in a just, peaceful, and loving society. Together, we lock arms to shoulder the grief. We ask God in heaven to ease the anguish of those who suffer, and we vow to act with urgent resolve.  I want to thank the many law enforcement personnel who responded to these atrocities with the extraordinary grace and courage of American heroes. I have spoken with Texas governor Greg Abbott and Ohio governor Mike DeWine, as well as Mayor Dee Margo of El Paso, Texas and Mayor Nan Whaley of Dayton, Ohio to express our profound sadness and unfailing support. Today we also send the condolences of our nation to President Obrador of Mexico and all the people of Mexico for the loss of their citizens in the El Paso shooting. Terrible, terrible thing. I have also been in close contact with Attorney General Barr and FBI Director Wray. Federal authorities are on the ground, and I have directed them to provide any and all assistance required, whatever is needed.  The shooter in El Paso posted a manifesto online consumed by racist hate. In one voice, our nation must condemn racism, bigotry, and white supremacy. These sinister ideologies must be defeated. Hate has no place in America. Hatred warps the mind, ravages the heart, and devours the soul. We have asked the FBI to identify all further resources they need to investigate and disrupt hate crimes and domestic terrorism. Whatever they need. We must recognize that the internet has provided a dangerous avenue to radicalize disturbed minds and perform demented acts. We must shine light on the dark recesses of the internet and stop mass murders before they start. The internet likewise is used for human trafficking, illegal drug distribution, and so many other heinous crimes. The perils of the internet and social media cannot be ignored, and they will not be ignored.  In the two decades since Columbine, our nation has watched with rising horror and dread as one mass shooting has followed another, over and over again, decade after decade. We cannot allow ourselves to feel powerless. We can and will stop this evil contagion. In that task, we must honor the sacred memory of those we have lost by acting as one people. Open wounds cannot heal if we are divided. We must seek real bipartisan solutions, we have to do that in a bipartisan manner, that will truly make America safer and better for all.  First, we must do a better job of identifying and acting on early warning signs. I am directing the Department of Justice to work in partnership with local, state, and federal agencies, as well as social media companies, to develop tools that can detect mass shooters before they strike. As an example, the monster in the Parkland High School in Florida had many red flags against him, and yet nobody took decisive action. Nobody did anything. Why not?  Second, we must stop the glorification of violence in our society. This includes the gruesome and grisly video games that are now commonplace. It is too easy today for troubled youth to surround themselves with a culture that celebrates violence. We must stop or substantially reduce this, and it has to begin immediately. Cultural change is hard, but each of us can choose to build a culture that celebrates the inherent worth and dignity of every human life. Thats what we have to do.  Third, we must reform our mental health laws to better identify mentally disturbed individuals who may commit acts of violence, and make sure those people not only get treatment, but when necessary, involuntary confinement. Mental illness and hatred pulls the trigger, not the gun.  Fourth, we must make sure that those judged to pose a grave risk to public safety do not have access to firearms, and that if they do, those firearms can be taken through rapid due process. That is why I have called for red flag laws, also known as extreme risk protection orders. Today, Im also directing the Department of Justice to propose legislation ensuring that those who commit hate crimes and mass murders face the death penalty, and that this capital punishment be delivered quickly, decisively, and without years of needless delay.  These are just a few of the areas of cooperation that we can pursue. I am open and ready to listen and discuss all ideas that will actually work and make a very big difference. Republicans and Democrats have proven that we can join together in a bipartisan fashion to address this plague. Last year, we enacted the STOP School Violence and Fix NICS Acts into law, providing grants to improve school safety, and strengthening critical background checks for firearm purchases. At my direction, the Department of Justice banned bump stocks. Last year, we prosecuted a record number of firearms offenses.  But there is so much more that we have to do. Now is the time to set destructive partisanship aside, so destructive, and find the courage to answer hatred with unity, devotion, and love. Our future is in our control. America will rise to the challenge. We will always have, and we always will, win. The choice is ours and ours alone. It is not up to mentally ill monsters. It is up to us. If we are able to pass great legislation after all of these years, we will ensure that those who were attacked will not have died in vain.  May God bless the memory of those who perished in Toledo, and may God protect them. May God protect all of those from Texas to Ohio. May God bless the victims and their families. May God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Thank you very much. Merci. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much.  Well, I want to thank you very much a-  Well, I want to thank you very much. I think more importantly than anything, I wanted to come up here to say that because the job that President Macron. and your wife by the who is a great lady, Bridget, would like to thank Bridget. She has been spectacular, spent a tremendous amount of time with Melania and some of the folks who came in, some of the wives that came in and they had a great tour of the area and its a beautiful area. But I want to thank you very much, Mr. President, for the incredible job you did. This is a truly successful G7.  There was tremendous unity. There was great unity. Sometimes Id read a little bit of false reporting and I will tell you there was, in fact, we would have stayed for another hour, nobody wanted to leave. We were accomplishing a lot, but I think more importantly, we were getting along very well. Seven countries and it really was the G7 and you have been a spectacular leader on this and I want to thank you and I want to thank the great country of France. Thank you very much. That I think, excuse me, I was Go ahead, lets go. If youd like, we could do two each, and then well both leave the room. Would you prefer that or would you prefer I just dont want to have the president of France standing here while Im answering these absolutely wonderful questions, okay? Why dont we start with a question for France. And Emmanuels going to have his own press conference after this. Thatll be fine. Go ahead. To France, John, to France. No, Im not. Were getting, John. Just to answer that, were getting there. Yes. Well see. I do. I think they want to make the deal very badly. I think that was elevated last night, very late in the night. I see alert, or you would call it breaking news, and it was that the vice chairman, were not talking about somebody from China at a low level. The vice chairman of China came out that he wants to see a deal made. He wants it to be made under calm conditions. Using the word calm. I agree with him on that. And John has taken a very hard hit over the last number of months. Theyve lost a 3 million jobs, itll soon be much more than 3 million jobs. Their chain is breaking. The chain is breaking up like nobodys seen before, and once that happens, its very hard to put it back together. You understand. I think they want, very much want to make a deal, and the longer they wait, the harder it is to put it back, if it can be put back at all.  So I believe they want to do a deal. The tariffs have hit them very hard in a fairly short period of time. The United States will have collected over $100 billion in tariffs. And I say it again, the reporters fail to, the media fail to acknowledge it, but if you look at the goods coming in from China, were talking about China, not other countries, if you look at the goods, they have a power that others dont have, but that power is only good for so long. Theyve manipulated their currency, theyve devalued their currency, and they put a lot of cash into the system. And because of that, the prices have not gone up or if theyve gone up, its been very little because they want to keep people working. If the prices go up, theyre not going to be able to keep people working. Theyre not going to be able to compete. Its a brilliant market.  Its a brilliant, brilliant market. The world market. A lot of markets are brilliant. And frankly, I think that China cannot, I dont know, but maybe they can, maybe they cant. I dont think they can do that. And I think theyre very smart. And I think President Xi is a great leader who happens to be a brilliant man, and he cant lose 3 million jobs in a very short period of time. And thats going to be magnified many times over, and its going to break down the Chinese system of trade and he cant do that. So when you say, Do you think they want to? Maybe they want to and maybe they dont, but I think they want to make a deal. Im not sure they have a choice. And I dont say that as a threat. I dont think they have a choice. In the meantime, the United States, which has never collected 25 cents from China. Well, in a fairly short period of time, be over $ 100 billion in tariffs. So I think they want to make a deal very badly. Iran is a country that is not the same country that it was two and a half years ago when I came into office. Iran was the number one state of terror throughout the world. There were 18 sites of confliction in my first week. When I spoke with the folks at the Pentagon, including lots of generals and lots of other military experts, 18 sites of confliction, meaning 18 sites of big problems. Every one of them was backed by Iran or in some cases, actually using Iranian soldiers, but at a minimum Iranian wealth. Much of it given in the ridiculous deal where they were given $150 billion plus one $1.8 billion in cash. And they used that money for some bad purposes.  With that being said, I think that Iran is a country of tremendous potential. Were not looking for leadership change, were not looking for that kind of change. This country has been through that many times before. That doesnt work. Were looking for no nuclear weapons, no ballistic missiles, and a longer period of time. Very simple. We can have it done in a very short period of time. And I really believe that around can be a great nation. Id like to see that happen, but they cant have nuclear weapons. Okay? Thank you. Excuse me? If the circumstances were correct, were right, I would certainly agree to that. But in the meantime, they have to be good players. You understand what that means. And they cant do what they were saying theyre going to do because if they do that, theyre going to be met with really very violent force. We have no choice. So I think theyre going to be good. I really think theyd like to. And by the way, President Macron told me every step that he was making yesterday. A lot of you said, Oh, he came in He told me long before he came in what was happening, what was I didnt think it was appropriate to meet yesterday, too soon. And things have to be worked out first. But President Macron told me exactly what was happening, who was coming, what time they were coming, where they were going to meet. And after the meeting he told me exactly what happened. And I think he had a very positive meeting.  Prime minister, Abe of Japan, also a large purchaser of oil from Iran, he was also very much involved. Look, he knows everybody there. So he was a very, very positive force. But I have to tell you, the Presidents done an excellent job and were going to see how it all turns out. Maybe it works, maybe it doesnt. I say it all the time about everything. Maybe it works and maybe it doesnt. But Ill tell you what, we made a ridiculous deal. We gave him $150 billion, gave him $1.8 billion, and we got nothing. We got nothing. And by the way, that agreement was so short term that it expires in a very short period of time.  With a country, you dont make a deal that short. Countries last for long times, and you dont do short term deals, especially when youre paying that kind of money. So I have had good feelings about Iran. I have good feelings that itll work. I know many Iranians living in New York City, I have many friends from Iran, theyre incredible people, incredible people. The last thing Id like to see is a big problem, but we have to do what we have to do. Okay? Go ahead, please. No, no, no. You first. Go ahead. Oh, no. Go ahead. Yes, yes. I have to say, the JCPOA was a bad deal, should not have been entered into. A lot of things couldve happened that wouldve been much different. Theyre allowed to test ballistic missiles, youre not allowed to go to various sites to check, and some of those sites have the most obvious sites for the creation or the making of nuclear weapons. And those things have to be changed and other things have to be changed. And I will tell you, I have very good feelings about it, i think that were going to do something. It may not be immediately, but I think ultimately were going to do something. As I said, Iran is a much different country than it was two and a half years ago, and we can get that back. And Id encourage it. I actually had friends years ago, many years ago, they were in the real estate business and they were in Iran and they were building houses and building housing and building office buildings and apartment houses and they did very well. They made a lot of money.  And to this day, theyre not exactly the youngest developers anymore, but let me tell you, they were young when they went over. They made a lot of money and they loved the people and they loved what was going on. And its a country with tremendous potential. I also say that, by the way, with respect to North Korea, Kim Jong Un, who Ive gotten to know extremely well, First Lady has gotten to know Kim Jong Un, and I think shed would agree with me, he is a man with a country that has tremendous potential. Youre in between China, Russia, and South Korea. People want to get to South Korea, they got to get there somehow, and if theyre going to do anything other than essentially fly, they want to go through. So railroads and everything else. So many things want to happen there. I think that North Korea has tremendous economic potential, and I think that Kim Jong Un sees that he would be the leader and I think he sees the tremendous potential that its got. With respect to Iran, same thing. Iran has incredible people and incredible country, potentially.  Location, thats a little rough neighborhood, but eventually its going to be a beautiful neighborhood. I think that its going to work out. And I really believe that those countries that went into the original deal, that more and more are agreeing with what I did. But I think those countries are going to be saying, Thank you, someday. I hope theyre going to be saying it, including France, including the President, because I think we did the right thing. I know we did the right thing if for no other reason, its just too short. Its almost expiring, if you think about it. And somebody said, Well, youll go and make an extension. No, no. Theyre great negotiators. Look at what they did to get the deal. Look at what they did to John Kerry and to President Obama. Look what happened when theyre bringing plane loads of cash. Plane loads, big planes, 757s, Boeing 757s, coming into loaded up with cash.  What kind of a deal is that? I think a lot of good things are going to happen, and I just want to say this because Ive spoken a lot with the President this last two and a half days. Weve never had a better relationship. We had a lunch that lasted for quite a while, that many of you got to see, it was the two of us, no staff, no anything. He wasnt trying to impress his people, i wasnt trying to impress his people. We were just trying to impress each other. And Ill tell you what, it was the best period of time weve ever had, and we accomplished a lot. I dont mean just, Gee whiz, wasnt that nice? Hes a very capable man. Hes doing a great job for France. He did an incredible job for the G7 and I just want to thank you and you go ahead to your news conference, and very special. This was a very special, a very unified, two and a half days. And I want to thank you for it. Thank you. I can confirm that the First Lady loved your French wine. Okay? All right? She loved your French wine. So thank you very much. Thats fine. Thank you. Thank you. Good job.  Shes worse than you are. I cant believe it. Jonathon. Billions and billions coming in and I think were going to get there. I do. I believe it more strongly now than I would have believed that a while ago. Were going to get there and were going to have a really Well have a fair deal. But remember this, when you say fair, Chinas been taking out of this country, $500 plus billion dollars a year for many, many years. Many, many years. It was time to stop. As a private person, i used to talk about it. Its one of the reasons Im President. And were in a great position, our countrys doing well. Our unemployment numbers are the lowest theyve been in over 50 years.  Our unemployment numbers for African-American, Asian, for Hispanic, are the best theyve ever been, historic numbers. Were in a very strong position. Our consumers are strong. Walmart just announced numbers that were, I mean, mind boggling numbers. Its a great poll right there. Thats the ultimate pole. How are the retailers doing and how are certain certain companies doing? So were doing very well, and I think that I think were going to make a deal with China, and I think well probably, eventually, were going to make a deal with Iran too. Its not a question of behavior. I think they want to make a deal and I think they should make a deal and I think if they dont make a deal its going to be very bad for China. And I very much appreciate the fact that they came out last night, very late last night, and they said they want to make a deal, they want it to be under calm circumstances. It was a little different kind of a statement. I thought it was a beautiful statement. I thought it indicated a lot. Go ahead. Here we go. One question, go ahead. No, no, no. One question. Well, Ill tell you what. Ive spent, and I think I will in a combination of loss and opportunity, probably itll cost me anywhere from $ 3 to $5 billion to be President. And-  Three to $5 billion to be president. And the only thing I care about is this country. Couldnt care less, otherwise I wouldnt have done it. People have asked me, What do you think it costs? And between opportunity, not doing thing  I used to get a lot of money to make speeches. Now I give speeches all the time. You know what I get? Zippo, and thats good. And I did a lot of great jobs and great deals that I dont do anymore. I dont want to do them because the deals Im making are great deals for the country. And thats, to me, much more important.  Doral happens to be within Miami. Its a city, its a wonderful place. Its a very, very successful area of Florida. Its very importantly, only five minutes from the airport. The airports right next to it. Its a big international airport, one of the biggest in the world. Everybody thats coming, all of these people with all of their big entourages come. Its set up so  And by the way, my people looked at 12 sites, all good. But some were two hours from an airport, some were four hours, I mean, they were so far away. Some didnt allow this, or they didnt allow that. With Doral, we have a series of magnificent buildings, we call them bungalows. They each hold from 50 to 70 very luxurious rooms with magnificent views. We have incredible conference rooms, incredible restaurants, its such a natural. We wouldnt even have to do the work that they did here. And theyve done a beautiful job. Theyve really done a beautiful job.  And what we have also is Miami. And we have many hundreds of acres, so that in terms of parking, in terms of all of the things that you need. The ballrooms are among the biggest in Florida and the best. Its brand new and my people wanted it. From my standpoint, Im not going to make any money. In my opinion, Im not going to make any money. I dont want to make money. I dont care about making money. If I want to make money, I wouldnt worry about 3 billion to 5 billion, because thats what  I mean, at some point Im going to detail that and well show, but I think its just a great place to be. I think having it in Miami is fantastic, really fantastic. Having it at that particular place because of the way its set up, each country can have their own villa or their own bungalow, and the bungalows, when I say they have a lot of units in them, so I think it just works out well.  And when my people came back, they took tours. They went to different places. I wont mention places, but youll have a list because theyre going to give a presentation on it fairly soon. They went to places all over the country and they came back and they said, This is where wed like to be. Now, we had military people doing it. We had Secret Service people doing it. We had people that really understand what its about. Its not about me, its about getting the right location. I think its very important.  Jonathan. No, not at all. Go ahead, Jonathan. It does. Well, it does. I dont know the gentleman. I think that I know him a little bit just by watching over the last number of years whats happened. Tell you one thing, hes a great negotiator, but he  I think hes going to want to meet. I think Iran wants to get this situation straightened out. Now, is that based on fact or based on gut? Thats based on gut. If they want to get this situation straightened out, Jonathan, and theyre really hurting badly. Their inflation, as you know, because they saw you reporting on it, their inflation is through the roof. Their economy has tanked entirely. The sanctions are absolutely hurting them horribly. I dont want to see that. I dont want to see that. Theyre great people. I dont want to see that. But we cant let them have a nuclear weapon. Cant let it happen. So I think that theres a really good chance that we would meet. Jeff, please. No. No. What hes talking in terms of compensation is they are out of money and they may need a short term letter of credit or loan. No, were not paying. We dont pay, but they may need some money to get them over a very rough patch. And if they do need money, certainly. And it would be secured by the oil, which to me is great security and they have a lot of oil, but its secured by oil. So were really talking about a letter of credit type facility. It would be from numerous countries, in numerous countries. And it comes back. It would expire. It would be paid back immediately and very quickly. Yes, go ahead please. Go ahead. Yes. Just left. Your prime minister, Abe, good man. Great man. And for Japan, I would say. Both. Not at this moment, no. Not at this moment. Well, its one of the reasons we made the deal, but no, not at this moment. Its something I could do at a later date if I wanted to, but were not looking at that. We just want to be treated fairly. Japan has had a tremendous trade surplus with the United States for many, many years, long before I came here. And Ill tell you something, were transforming our country. Were taking these horrible, one-sided, foolish, very dumb, stupid, if youd like to use that word because its so descriptive. Were taking these trade deals that are so bad and were making good, solid deals out of them. And thats transforming our country. That will be transformative and very exciting, I think, for our country. Very, very exciting. Please, go ahead. Well, I didnt actually say you. I said the woman behind you, so why dont we do her first. Youve been asking a lot of questions all day long. Dont say I dont give you access, right? Go ahead. I dont care politically. I really dont. A lot of people dont understand this. I ran one election and I won, happened to be for president. I dont care politically. Im going to run another election. I think Im winning based on polls that we see. Whether I win or not, I have to do the right thing. So I dont do things for political reasons. Is it good? Probably not. Maybe it is. I mean, a lot of people are smart. A lot of people say having Russia, which is a power, having them inside the room is better than having them outside the room. By the way, there were numerous people during the G7 that felt that way. And we didnt take a vote or anything, but we did discuss it. My inclination is to say yes, they should be in.  They were really  It was a President Obama  Im not blaming him, but a lot of bad things happened with President Putin and President Obama. One of the things that happened was, as you know, what happened in with a very big area, a very, very big and important area in the Middle East where the red line was drawn and then President Obama decided that he was not going to do anything about it. You cant draw red lines in the sand. You just cant do it. And the other was in Ukraine having to do with a certain section of Ukraine that you know very well where it was sort of taken away from President Obama. Not taken away from President Trump, taken away from President Obama.  President Obama was not happy that this happened because it was embarrassing to him. Right. It was very embarrassing to him and he wanted Russia to be out of the, what was called the G8, and that was his determination. He was outsmarted by Putin. He was outsmarted. President Putin outsmarted President Obama. And I can understand how President Obama would feel. He wasnt happy, and theyre not in for that reason.  Now, Im only thinking about the world and Im thinking about this country in terms of the G7, whether its G7, G8. I think it would be better to have Russia inside the tent than outside the tent. Do we live by the way? Yes, we live by the way. Is it politically popular for me to say that? Possibly not. I think a lot of people would agree with me, frankly, but possibly not. I do nothing for politics and a lot of you, youre going to smile at that. I do nothing for politics. I do whats right and people like what I do, but I just do whats right. If I wanted to go strictly by politics, Id probably poll that and possibly Id say, Oh gee, I dont want Russia in, but I really think its good for security of the world, its good for the economics of the world.  Remember theyre building a big pipeline in Europe going right up to Germany. And I said to Angela, who I had a great relationship, but I said, You pay Russia billions of dollars and then we defend you from Russia. And I say, How does that work? Well, he did. Well, it was annexed during President, I know you like President Obama, but it was annexed during President Obamas term. If it was annexed during my term, Id say, Sorry folks, I made a mistake, or sorry folks. President Obama was helping Ukraine. Crimea was annexed during his term. Now, its a very big area, very important area. Russia has its submarine, thats where they do their submarine work and thats where they dock large and powerful submarines, but not as powerful as ours and not as large as ours, but they have their submarines and President Obama was pure and simply outsmarted. They took Crimea during his term. That was not a good thing. It could have been stopped, couldve been stopped with the right whatever. It could have been stopped, but President Obama was unable to stop it and its too bad. Go ahead. Well, I dont know that hed accept. And those are tough circumstances. He was a part of G8, and all of a sudden, hes not out or hes not in. So I think, John, actually, thats a pretty tough thing for him. Hes a proud person. Would I invite him? I would certainly invite him. Whether or not he could come, psychologically, I think thats a tough thing for him to do. You have a G8, now its a G7 and you invite the person that was thrown out, really by President Obama and really because he got outsmarted, President Obama, pure and simple. And dont forget, it was not just Crimea, it was the red line in the sand and Obama said never violate the red line in the sand. And then they went ahead and they killed many children with gas. It was terrible and he did nothing about it. I did, but I was there years later. I did something about it, but I was there late. . Go ahead. Well, weve had many calls. Secretary Mnuchin is here and youve had many calls over the last 24 hours. But certainly over the last 48 hours weve had many calls, not just one. This isnt one. And these are high level calls. They want to make a deal, and by the way, I think a deal is going to be made, but they want to make a deal. The Chinese are not saying that. Excuse me. Let me respond to something. The vice chairman of China, do you get higher than that other than President Xi? The vice president, the vice chairman, its not the vice president. The vice chairman made the statement that he wants to make a deal, that he wants to see a call made, mister, he wants it all to happen. That says it there. I dont have to talk about  You folks were reporting before what we cant find any phone call. He released the statement. I didnt release it. He released the statement. Numerous calls. And not only with Steve, there were calls with other people too. Just so you understand, China wants to make a deal. Now, whether or not we make a deal, its got to be a great deal. And I tell this to President Xi, who I really respect. I really do. I have great respect and I like him too. Hes a tough guy, but I have a lot of feelings for President Xi. Hes very outstanding in so many ways, but I told him very strongly, I said, Look. Youre starting up here and youre making 500 billion a year and stealing our intellectual property. Were down on the floor, lower than the floor. Cant make a 50 50 deal. This has to be a deal thats better for us. And if its not better, lets not do business together. I dont want to do business. Forget about tariffs for a second. Were taking in tremendous amounts of money. Forget that. I dont want to do business.  Now, when I raise and he raises, I raise and he raises, we can never catch up. We have to balance our trading relationship, at least to an extent. And they were unwilling to do that. And well never have a deal if that happens, but its going to happen because they have to have a deal. And as far as phone calls are concerned, Secretary of the Treasury and other people have been receiving many calls, not receiving, back and forth, many calls. China wants to make a deal. And if we can, we will make a deal. Well see. . Go ahead. Youre talking about global economic instability? I dont consider instability, but that- Sorry. Its the way I negotiate. Its the way I negotiate. Its done very well for me over the years and its doing even better for the country, I think. And I do think that  Look. Heres the story. I hear people say, Oh, just make a deal, make a deal. They dont have the guts and they dont have the wisdom to know that you cant continue to go on where a country is taking 500 billion, not million, 500 billion with a B, out every single year, $500 billion. You just cant do that. Somebody had to do this. This should have been done by President Obama. It should have been done and Biden, sleepy Joe. It should have been done by other people. It shouldve been done by Bush, it shouldve been done by Clinton, double Bush. It shouldve been done. Im doing it. Let me tell you something else. North Korea shouldve been done a long time ago. Im doing it. Im doing a lot of things that I shouldnt have to be doing. . Please. Go ahead, please. I believe that. Well, Theresa was unable to do the deal. I gave her my ideas as to doing the deal very early on, and you possibly know what they are, but I would have done that. She chose to do it her way and that didnt work out so well. I think shes a very, very good person and a good woman and I really believe that Boris Johnson will be a great prime minister. We like each other and we had a great two and a half days. Ive been waiting for him to be prime minister for about six years. I told him, What took you so long? I think hes going to be a great prime minister and especially after spending a lot of intense time with him over the last couple of days. Hes very smart, hes very strong, and hes very enthusiastic, and you know what else? He loves your country. He really loves your country. That came out maybe more than anything else yet. Yeah, please. No, no, no. I love the UK. I own great property in the UK. I love the UK. I have no idea how my property is doing because I dont care. But I own Turnberry and I own in Aberdeen and I own in Ireland, as you know, Doonbeg and great stuff. And Ill be honest with you, I think hes going to just do a great job as prime minister. It takes a lot. Its so many different elements to being a great prime minister and you needed him. I just think his time is right. This is the right time for Boris. This is the right time for Boris. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Go ahead. Right here. Say who youre with, please. I think were going to have just a  Look, France is a great nation. Its being run, a lot of things that are happening, its not easy what hes doing, hes changing certain ways. Its a very hard thing to do. I wont get into it. Im going to let him sell his ideas, but a lot of people dont disagree with his ideas, but its a very hard thing to do. If youre a great citizen of France, you love your country, but you want to do the way youve been doing it for a long time, but maybe thats not working and maybe they have to do what he has to do. I think hes going to do a fantastic job, but its very tough for him. I know how tough it is for him. Hes been having a hard time and nobody would have an easy time, but I do believe hes doing the right thing and Boris is different.  Its a different kind of a deal. Boris has to try and do something with Brexit. Its very tough. I deal with the EU. The EU is  Thats a very, very strong group of people. They have their ideas and theyre not easy to deal with, I will tell you.  Were very close to making a deal, by the way, with the EU. I have to say this. We made a great deal with Japan and were very close to maybe making a deal with the EU because they dont want tariffs. Its very simple. They dont want to tax cars. Mercedes Benz, BMW, they dont need a 20% or 25% tax. But were very close. I think were going to make a deal with the EU without having to go that route. I may have to go that route, but maybe not. Were going to have a deal, a really fair deal, but the EU is another one. Weve been losing $180 billion a year for many years. Thats a lot of money. How much can you take out of the piggy bank? Right. Both. I dont want to say which. Look, I think we have been with, I guess you would start off by saying England. I asked Boris, Wheres England? Whats happening with England? They dont use it too much anymore. We talked about it. It was very interesting, but the United Kingdom is a great, incredible place. Its an incredible nation and its been one of our tremendous allies. And another one happens to be Australia. He was here also, Scott. He is fantastic. In fact, were honoring him in Australia at the White House in a very short period of time. But I think that  Excuse me? At some point I will, yeah. At some point I will. Also Germany, Angela asked me to visit Germany. Were going to be doing that too. So I just think theyre very different and theyre going to be going at it for a little while, but ultimately, probably works out. They may have to get out. They may not make a deal. The European Union is very tough to make deals with. Very, very tough. Just to ask Theresa May.  Go ahead. I understand that. Well, we actually had a very good meeting. I headed out with one or two people where we disagreed in terms of concept, but we actually had a pretty good meeting last year. I would say that this was a big step above in terms of unity, in terms of agreement. We have really great agreement on a lot of very important subjects, but last year was good also. I mean, last year was good also. I think last year mightve been a little bit underrated. Go ahead, please. Oh, were going to do something hopefully special. Were going to build on what we have now. We built on something really good and were going to be going in with some great unity. We really did. If there was any word for this particular meeting of seven very important countries, it was unity. I think most important of all, we got along great. We got along good.  Go ahead. Oh, I didnt say it, he did. Yeah. Yes. That was an easy answer. Absolutely. Great respect for China. Great respect for the leadership of China. Absolutely. I havent said that, but I think that having President Putin in what was the G8. He was a member of the G8 and I heard he was a good member of the G8. Having him in I think is more of an advantage. I think its a positive for the world. I think its a positive for Russia. I think its a big positive for Russia and its something the group is discussing. They are discussing it. People feel very much like me. Many people. Why? Well, well see. I know one thing, if they were invited back, I think theyd be there. If they werent, thats okay too. I just think theyd be better inside than outside. I mean, as I said before, I really do. I think theyd be an asset. I think it would be a good thing. Some of the things were going in the room, and yesterday particularly, we were discussing four or five matters, and Russia was literally involved in all of those four or five matters, and a few of the people looked up and said, Why arent they here talking to us about it? And what are we going to do now? Go home, take it easy for a day? Although Im not doing that, I dont take it easy, but, What do we do? Were going to go home and start calling them at the end of the week and say, Hey, how about this? It could have been in the room.  We had numerous things that we were discussing, right? Numerous. We had a lot of things that we were discussing and it wouldve been very easy if Russia was in the room. If he was in the room, we couldve solved those things. Now theyre just in limbo, but I have to say with all of that, very little, little limbo, but somebody will speak to them about some things and, frankly, theyre not very complicated, but it would be easier if they were in the room picking stones. Okay. Josh, go ahead. Josh. I feel that the United States has tremendous wealth. The wealth is under its feet. Ive made that wealth come alive. We will soon be one of the  We will soon be exporting. In fact, were actually doing it now, exporting, but we are now the number one energy producer in the world, and soon it will be by far with a couple of pipelines that have not been able to get approved for many, many years. Itll have a huge impact. I was able to get An war in Alaska, could be the largest site in the world for oil and gas. I was able to get An war approved. Ronald Reagan wasnt able to do it. Nobody was able to do that. Theyve been trying to do it since before Ronald Reagan. I got it approved. Were the number one energy producer in world. Soon it will be by far the number one. Its tremendous wealth, and LNG is being sought after all over Europe and all over the world. And we have more of it than anybody else.  And Im not going to lose that wealth. Im not going to lose it on dreams, on windmills, which frankly arent working too well. Im not going to lose it. So Josh, in a nutshell, I want the cleanest water on Earth. I want the cleanest air on Earth. And thats what were doing. And Im an environmentalist. A lot of people dont understand that. I have done more environmental impact statements, probably, than anybody. I guess I can say definitely because Ive done many, many, many of them, more than anybody thats ever been president or vice president or anything even close to president. And I think I know more about the environment than most people. I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with a jobs, with pensions, with so many things, and thats what were getting.  So I want to be very careful. At the same time, at the same time, at the same time  You werent called. At the same time, its very important to me, very important to me. We have to maintain this incredible place that weve all built. We become a much richer country, and thats a good thing. Not a bad thing, because that great wealth allows us to take care of people. We can take care of people that we couldnt have taken care of in the past because of the great wealth. We cant let that wealth be taken away. Clean air, clean water.  Thank you very much everybody. I appreciate it, thank you. ."
"Get along with people in the administration that I consider very important. And I hope weve left in good stead, but maybe we have, and maybe we havent. I have to run the country the way were running the country. Were doing very well. Were respected all over the world again. Respected like we havent been respected in many, many years. You look at Iran, and you look at so many of the things that are happening. Iran wants to talk. They all want to talk. Were doing very well with China, and you probably saw the numbers that have come out and come out, some of them coming out just today, but Chinas, their supply chain is breaking up, the supply chain of China, which was this unbreakable powerful tool that they had, is breaking up like a toy, because companies are moving out, and China wants to make a deal. Well see what happens. We have to make the right deal for this country.  China has been taking out hundreds of billions of dollars a year out of our country, and you know, I read papers like the Wall Street Journal. They dont have a clue, they havent got a clue. They dont make any excuses for the fact that China has been literally ripping off the United States in the worst manner for so many years, 500 billion dollars pouring out of the United States. And I hear people, I dont even know, do these people have any education on anything? Its common sense maybe more than anything else. But I look at some statements that are made from so many different people, and you know, John wasnt in line with what we were doing, and actually in some cases he thought it was too tough what we were doing. Mr tough guy, you know, you have to go into Iraq.  Going into Iraq was something that he felt very strongly about. So were right now in for over 7 trillion dollars into the Middle East. And I dont say it was his decision. You had a president, and you had other people also, but he was very out there, I can tell you, and wanting to have them do it. And I disagreed with that decision from the beginning, even though I was a civilian, so nobody cared. But I was out there. I was outspoken about it. I thought it was a terrible mistake. Here we are, many, many years later, decades later, and were still there, and weve been acting as policemen. And Ill tell you one thing, we are hitting the Taliban right now harder than theyve ever been hit. And what they did was horrible, when they killed a great American soldier, when they killed 12 people, innocent people, essentially innocent people. Because if you look, I mean many of these people were civilians. You also had a NATO soldier, in addition to our great soldier.  But what they did what they did in order to create what they thought was a better negotiating stance, I said, Thats the end of them. Get them out. I dont want anything to do with them. And theyve been hit very hard. And I know for a fact they said that was a big mistake that they made, and it was. But that was my decision. And what were doing now is my decision. So we have a lot of great people that want that position. A lot of great people want a lot of positions. They want to be a part of this administration. Weve done more in this administration, in less than three years, then I believe any president, you look at the accomplishments, even today, what were doing, you look at what were doing today, these are big things. Nobody else would be doing this. Theyre big things.  But weve done more than any administration probably in the history of the country. You just look at one point after another point, whether its regulation cuts, whether its tax cuts, you look at Right To Try, with these two gentlemen, so important, Right To Try, where people are able to use some of the incredible innovations that weve developed with the greatest labs, and the greatest doctors in the world, and they could use them instead of being forced to move and leave to other countries that dont have a clue compared to us. And now they have Right To Try. And by the way, a lot of people are being saved, a lot of great things are happening with Right To Try. But what weve done for the vets, what weve done for our great military, with spending 700 this year, 718 billion dollars. And by the way, thats also jobs. Secondarily, but its also jobs. Nobodys done what weve done, and were very honored to have done it. Were in a very good footing. Our country is respected again. Well I have five people that want it very much. I mean a lot more than that would like to have it, but there are five people that I consider very highly qualified, good people Ive gotten to know, over the last three years, and well be announcing somebody next week, but we have some very highly qualified people. But we were set back very badly when John Bolton talked about the Libyan model, and he made a mistake. And as soon as he mentioned that, the Libyan model, what a disaster. Take a look at what happened to Kadafi with the Libyan model, and hes using that to make a deal with North Korea?  And I dont blame Kim Jong-Un for what he said after that, and he wanted nothing to do with John Bolton. And thats not a question of being tough. Thats a question of being not smart, to say something like that. So I wish John the best. We actually got along very well. Im sure hell, you know, do whatever he can do to spin it his way. John came to see me the night before. In fact, I think a lot of you people were out there waiting for me to get on the helicopter. Im sure you have a shot somewhere along the line. And he sat right in that chair. And I told him, John, if too many people, youre not getting along with people. And a lot of us including me, disagree with some of your tactics, and some of your ideas. And I wish you well, but Id like you to submit your resignation. And he did that. And I really, I know hes going to do well. I hope hes going to do well, and I wish him well. So I just spoke with Senator Toomey, and Senator Murphy, and Joe Manchin, Senator Joe Manchin. Just had a long talk with them just before this meeting, just hung up, and we are working very, very hard together, all of us, and well see that we can come up with something thats acceptable to everybody. Its a subject thats been going on for decades. Decades theyve been talking about it, so were looking at background checks, and were looking at putting everything together in a unified way so that we can have something thats meaningful. At the same time, all of us want to protect our great second amendment, its very important to all of us. So we are now in meetings. The meetings are going to go on tonight. Im going to speak with them again tomorrow, and I think progress is being made. I hope so. Were going to take a look at a lot of different things, and well be reporting back in a fairly short period of time. There are a lot of things under discussion. Some things will never happen, and some things can really very much, some very meaningful things can happen. Its really a gun sense, if you think about it. What were looking at is, and maybe thats what we should go with, the gun sense bill, but we will have some, were having great dialogue. Well see what happens. No, I never did that. I never did that. Thats a whole hoax by the fake news media when they talk about the hurricane, and when they talk about Florida, and they talk about Alabama. Thats just fake news. Right from the beginning, it was a fake story. And while were here, and while were talking about that, I want to congratulate Dan Bishop last night on an incredible win, Dan was 17 points behind three weeks ago, the media thought he was going to lose. They were all set to have a big celebration with their partners from the Democrat party.  And Dan Bishop worked really hard, and I worked very hard with him, and he made up a 17 point lead in a few weeks, and he won a great election last night. And also Greg Murphy, which nobodys even reporting, but Greg Murphy won a great congressional election in North Carolina last night, and I want to congratulate, between Dan and Greg, what a job they did. We pick up two seats and Greg was anticipated to win by two or three points, maybe less, but two or three points. And he won by many, many points. I dont know what the final tab is, but he won by a lot, and he campaigned brilliantly, and Dan campaign brilliantly. And so were very happy about that. Thats a tremendous win for the Republican party. Okay. Yeah go ahead. Well, we have a policy on Venezuela thats a firm policy, Venezuelas really hurting, and were trying to help people in a humanitarian way. Thats probably not good in terms of, you know, crushing a terrible regime. But yeah, people dying, this a country that 15 years ago was one of the wealthiest countries, and now its died. They dont have water, they dont have food, they dont have medical, they have nothing. So were trying to help as much as we can. Were also working with Columbia, and their leader of Columbia is a friend of mine, and hes doing a really good job, I can tell you that.  Were working with Columbia, were working with Brazil, were working with other countries on a humanitarian basis. Venezuela is in very sad shape, that shows you about socialism. I mean that shows you what happens. You take a country that was so wealthy 15 years ago, and today they dont have water, and they dont have basic food. So well see what happens. No, I disagreed with John Bolton on his attitudes on Venezuela. I thought he was way out of line, and I think Im proven to be right. But we are always watching Venezuela very, very closely. I dont want to talk about that. Well, they become very rich companies very fast, and the whole thing with vaping is a, is, its been very profitable, and I want companies. Look, you know that, I fight for our companies very hard. I fight, thats why Im fighting with China. Thats why Im fighting with other countries. If you look at European union, and if you look at Japan, and if you look at so many others, including South Korea, and many others, were constantly dealing with them to make it good for our companies, because I view it as jobs. I view it as income for our country, and jobs. Vaping has become a very big business, as I understand it, a giant business in a very short period of time. But we cant allow people to get sick, and we cant have our youth be so effected. And Im hearing it, and thats how the First Lady got involved, and shes got a son together that is a beautiful young man, and she feels very, very strongly about it. Shes seen it. Were both reading it. A lot of people are reading it, but people are dying with vaping.  So were looking at it very closely. And you know, if nothing else, this is a conference thats going to let people know about it. Because people are going to watch what were saying. And parents are going to be a lot tougher with respect to their children. A lot of people think vaping is wonderful, its great. Its really not wonderful. Thats one thing I think we can say definitely, commissioner, its not a wonderful thing. Its got big problems. We have to find out the extent of the problem. Its so new, its so new. But were going to find out, and I hope that parents, they have children and the children are a certain age, I hope they going to be able to make wise decisions. Maybe based on what were saying today. But the commissioner and Alex Azar, theyre going to be coming back over the next pretty short period of time, couple of weeks with some very strong recommendations. Im not looking at anything. Iran is a different country than it was two and a half years ago. Two and a half years ago, they were given a lot of money by President Obama previous to that. 150 billion dollars, 1.8 billion in cash, in actual cash. Its very impressive. But they are a much different country right now than they were two and a half years ago when I came into office. And I do believe theyd like to make a deal. If they do, thats great. And if they dont, thats great too, but they have tremendous financial difficulty, and the sanctions are getting tougher and tougher. We cannot let Iran have a nuclear weapon, and they never will have a nuclear weapon. And if theyre thinking about enrichment, they can forget about it. Because its to going be very dangerous for them to enrich. Very, very dangerous. Okay? You can spread the word to Iran. Well see what happens. Well see what happens. I think Iran has potential, and I think North Korea, those are two countries were dealing with right now at a very high level. I think Iran has a tremendous, tremendous potential. Theyre incredible people. Were not looking for regime change. We hope that we can make a deal, and if we cant make a deal, thats fine too. Okay. Thats fine too. But I think they have to make a deal. Theyve never been in this condition. By the way, China is having the worst year theyve had now in 57 years, okay? 57. There was 27, there was 22, and then 27, its 57 years, its the worst year theyve had. And its only going to get worse. So I think they want to make a deal too. Were dealing with them, but I think theyll want to make a deal. As you know, theyre coming in, sometime in early October and were speaking to them constantly.  And they also, they made a couple of moves last night that were pretty good. You saw that right? They were pretty good. They were pretty respectful to our people. Youre going to see it because you were one of the people that reported it, your group. But China is, its about having to do with tariffs, you saw what they did, they took tariffs off certain things. A lot of things. I think they did the right thing. I think it was good for them, but they took them off. Yeah, I think it was a, I think it was a gesture. But it was a big move. People were shocked. I wasnt shocked, but I deal with them, and I know them, and I like them and I hope we can do something. And with respect to Iran, I think they have to do something, because they have potential to have an unbelievably great country. But the way its going right now, its disintegrating, and I dont think they should allow that to happen. North Korea has tremendous potential. North Korea is in between Russia, China, and South Korea. Its an incredible, incredible people. I think that they really will, they have this truly unbelievable potential, and I think they want to get to it. Well see what happens. I mean, maybe they do and maybe then it wont. I mean, youre just going to just see. But I really believe that North Korea would like to see something tremendous happen.  This could be one of the most unbelievable, you look at a country in terms of upside, this could be one of the most unbelievable experiments ever, North Korea. And I also say the same with Iran. Iran can get back to business. They can do unbelievably well with all of the natural things that play in. So on vaping, just to finish, this is all about vaping. This is a meeting that gets off a little track because you ask us questions about other things, and I think were better of answering them than not, but we are looking at vaping very strongly. Its very dangerous. Children have died, people have died. And the acting commissioner is somebody thats a true expert on it. As much as you can be an expert on a brand new subject, and were going to have some very strong rules, regulations, and more importantly, I think were going to have some very important information come out very shortly. And well be reporting that over the next couple of weeks. And I want to thank you and commissioner, I want to thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you everybody."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, thank you all for being here. Weve had a tremendous three days in New York at the United Nations. I want to thank the Secretary-General. Its been really incredible whats been taking place, and hes been a fantastic host to a lot of countries. The meetings I had on a bilat or close were pretty staggering. I think we set a new record, but youll have to check that out. We met very, very  for pretty extended periods of time, either two-on-two, one-on-one, or just about at that level with Pakistan, Poland, New Zealand, Singapore, Egypt, South Korea, United Kingdom, India, Iraq, Argentina, Germany, Brazil, France, Japan, Ukraine, Honduras, El Salvador, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, UAE, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. Other than that, we werent too busy over the last three days. And unfortunately, the press doesnt even cover it. Weve made some fantastic deals, like with Japan for farmers. We have a tremendous trade deal with Japan, and that doesnt get covered because you waste your time on nonsense.  The PMI manufacturers index has gone substantially up, which was an incredible  Larry Kudlow, wherever you may be, Larry, please stand up. He just gave me these numbers. And existing new home sales are through the roof, just came out. Oil prices have gone down ever since the Saudi Arabia incident, and theyve gone down very substantially, so we have plenty of oil. But those numbers were surprising to you, Larry, and the extent of the increase. Is that a correct statement? So thank you, Larry Kudlow. We think well make this little announcement to you because important. The so-called whistleblower, the one that didnt have any first-class or first-rate or second-tier information from what I understand, youll have to figure that out for yourself. But Ive spoken with Leader Kevin McCarthy and the Republicans, many of them, and we were going to do this anyway, but Ive informed them, all of the House members, that I fully support transparency on the so-called whistleblower information, even though it was supposedly secondhand information, which is sort of interesting. And other things have come out about the whistleblower that are also maybe even more interesting.  But also insist on transparency from Joe Biden and his son Hunter on the millions of dollars that have been quickly and easily taken out of Ukraine and China. Millions of dollars, millions and millions of dollars taken out very rapidly while he was vice president. And I think they should have transparency for that, and Ive informed the Leader about that.  And additionally, I demand transparency from Democrats who went to Ukraine and attempted to force the new president, who I met and is an outstanding person, I just met a little while ago, some of you were there. I think its going to be outstanding. He got elected on the basis of corruption. He wants to end corruption in Ukraine, and I think thats great. But they went there, and they wanted to force the new president to do things that they wanted under the form of political threat. They threatened him if he didnt do things.  Now, thats what theyre accusing me of, but I didnt do it. I didnt threaten anybody. In fact, the press was asking questions of the President of Ukraine, and he said, No pressure. I used the word pressure. I think he used the word push, but he meant pressure. But its the same thing. No push, no pressure, no nothing. Its all a hoax, folks. Its all a big hoax. And the sad thing about this hoax is that we work so hard with all of these countries and  I mean, really hard. This has been  Ive been up from early in the morning to late in the evening and meeting with different countries, all for the good of our country, and the press doesnt even cover all of this. And its really disappointing also to those countries that are with us and spend so much time with us. So we want transparency. Weve informed Kevin McCarthy about transparency, and we said vote for it. So I think youll have close to 100% of the Republican votes, I hope. And they got almost no attention, but in May, CNN reported that Senators Robert Menendez, Richard Durbin, and Patrick Leahy wrote a letter to Ukraines Prosecutor General expressing concern at the closing of four investigations they said were critical. In the letter, they implied that their support for US assistance to Ukraine was at stake and that if they didnt do the right thing, they wouldnt get any assistance. Gee, doesnt that sound familiar? Doesnt that sound familiar?  And Chris Murphy, who Ive been dealing with on guns, so nice. Hes always, Oh, no, we want to work it out. We want to work it out. But theyre too busy wasting their time on the witch hunt. So Senator Chris Murphy literally threatened the President of Ukraine that if he doesnt do things right, they wont have Democrat support in Congress. You can look all of this up.  One other thing, Im just going off certain notes and elements of what weve been doing over the last three days, but this just came up a few minutes ago. The Amazon Washington Post just put out a fake article that Acting Director Of National Intelligence Joseph Maguire, who Ive gotten to know, and hes a tough cookie, and I was surprised, I was shocked to hear this, was going to quit, blaming the White House for something that they wouldnt let him talk openly, freely. And I was shocked because I know Joe, and hes tough. Tough guy. And I was really surprised to hear he was going to quit.  Before I could even either talk to him or talk to anybody else, he put out a statement. I didnt speak to Joe yet, but he said, At no time have I considered resigning my position. In other words, the story in The Washington Post was a fake. At no time have I considered resigning my position since assuming this role on August 16th, 2019. I have never quit anything in my life, and I am not going to start now. Im committed to leading the intelligence community to address the diverse and complex threats facing our nation. Thats from the Acting Director Of National Intelligence, a very good man, Joseph Maguire.  So were having a great period of time. Our countrys the strongest its ever been economically, our numbers are phenomenal. Wilbur, thank you, and Larry, everybody. The numbers are phenomenal. Our economy is the strongest in the world. Were the largest economy in the world. Had my opponent won, we would be second right now because China was catching us so rapidly we would have been second by this time. And unless somebody does a very poor job as president, were going to be first for a long way because weve picked up trillions and trillions of dollars in value and worth of our country, and China has lost trillions and trillions of dollars and millions of jobs and their supply chain. And they want to make a deal.  This year, America came to the United Nations stronger than we have ever been before. Since my election, the United States has not only brought our economy to a level that we have never seen, the most jobs that weve ever had. You know youve heard me say it many times, African American, Asian American, Hispanic American, the best unemployment numbers weve ever had. And the most and best employment numbers. 160 million, very close to that number, in jobs. Weve never been anywhere close.  Wages are up, and inequality is down. Something that people dont like writing about, but wages are up. I used to speak during the campaign, and I talk about wages where people were making less money three years ago than they were making 21 years ago, 22 years ago, and theyd have two jobs and three jobs. So when I say three years ago, Im talking into the area sometime prior to the election. And they were doing very badly. And now for the first time in many years, wages are up, and employment is up, and unemployment is down. And its a beautiful thing to watch.  In a week of active and ambitious diplomacy here at the United Nations, America renewed our friendships. We advanced our values greatly and made clear to everyone that the United States will always defend our citizens to promote prosperity.  I met with Prime Minister Boris Johnson at length, the United Kingdom, continuing our discussions on a magnificent new bilateral trade deal. So well see what happens with respect to Brexit, but I suspect well have a fantastic deal with the UK. It should be much bigger than it has been over the last number of years, over the last 20 years, frankly. It should be a much bigger deal. Thats true with many countries. Were going to have much bigger trade deals with a lot of countries that have a opportunity to come, and they all want to do business with the United States, especially now.  Earlier today I stood alongside Prime Minister Abe of Japan, friend of mine, a great gentleman, had a great reelection. And we signed a terrific new trade deal, which tremendously helps our farmers and ranchers and technology. The technology companies are really big beneficiaries. We also held very productive conversations with leaders of Pakistan, India, and many other nations on achieving stronger ties of fair and reciprocal trade. And with respect to Pakistan and India, we talked about Kashmir and whatever help I can be. I offered, whether its arbitration or mediation or whatever it has to be, Ill do whatever I can because theyre at very serious odds right now, and hopefully thatll get better. You look at the two gentlemen heading those two countries, two good friends of mine. I said, Fellows, work it out. Just work it out. Those are two nuclear countries. Theyve got to work it out.  This week, we also made incredible strides on national security with President Duda of Poland. We signed a joint declaration advancing defense cooperation. And crucially, Poland has agreed to put up 100% of the money, something I dont think youve ever heard said before, but theyre going to put up 100% of the money of hosting additional US military personnel that well be taking from various other countries. We wont have more over, well be moving them around. Poland is building us phenomenal new facilities. Theyre spending everything, and theyre going to really do a job, but well be moving a few thousand soldiers, and Poland will be paying that for it.  Together with Prime Minister Lee of Singapore, I signed an important agreement extending our defense cooperation. This hasnt been changed in many years.  And yesterday I met with prospective members of the Middle East Strategic Alliance, which is a group that I know very well, I know all of them. And through this effort, the nations of the Middle East are taking more responsibility for securing their own future and their own neighborhood, and theyre also reimbursing us and paying us for a lot of the military work that we incredibly do.  But because were now independent energy-wise, were energy independent, we have very few boats going over to Middle East. We used to have them going through the straits all the time. And you probably noticed that every once in a while they go after somebody elses  They havent gone after us yet. If they do, theyve got big problems, but we have very few boats going over there. They were saying the other day, theyve never attacked an American boat. Im not asking for trouble, but if they do, they know they have far bigger trouble. But then they said, But you know, we dont see very many American boats over here anymore.  This week also bought extraordinary progress to nations of our own hemisphere. In recent days, weve achieved historic asylum cooperation agreements with El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. We were with El Salvador today. A great, young gentleman became the president. Hes strong and tough, and hes taking care of crime. He was really something today. I was very impressed with him. And likewise with Honduras, who we met. We signed a cooperation agreement with both, and also with    agreement with both and also with Guatemala. Were working with our partners in Central America to ensure that asylum seekers can pursue relief as close to their home countries as possible. That will make a tremendous difference at our southern border. And Mexico, I have to say, President Lopez Obrador has been outstanding, an outstanding partner and hes doing a great job in Mexico. The cartels are way down and the numbers, our secretarys here now, the numbers are way down, way, way down. And were doing that without the help of Congress meaning the Democrats in Congress who wont give us a single vote to take care of loopholes. We have loopholes that are so horrible and it would be so easy to fix. And they know they should be fixed, but they dont want to do it, because they dont want to give Trump any credit.  Because its all about the election. Thats all they care about. They dont care about our country, they care about the election. And the sad part is with all of the tremendous work that weve done this weekend whether its Secretary Mnuchin or Secretary Pompeo who had some outstanding, outstanding meetings, with all of this tremendous work that weve done, the press doesnt even cover it. And the Democrats did this hoax during the United Nations week. It was perfect, because this way, it takes away from these tremendous achievements that were taking care of doing, that were involved in in New York City at the United Nations.  So, that was all planned like everything else. It was all planned. And the witch hunt continues. But theyre getting hit hard on this witch hunt, because when they look at the information, its a joke. Impeachment for that? When you have a wonderful meeting or a wonderful phone conversation? I think you should ask  we actually, you know, that was the second conversation. I think you should ask for the first conversation also. I cant believe they havent, although I heard theres a rumor out there, they want the first conversation.  It was beautiful, it was just a perfect conversation, but I think you should do that. I think you should do and I think you should ask for VP Pences conversation, because he had a couple of conversations also. I could save you a lot of time. They were all perfect, nothing was mentioned of any import other than congratulations. But the word is that theyre going to ask for the first phone conversation. You can have it any time you need it and also, Mike Pences conversations, which I think there were one or two of them. They were perfect, they were all perfect.  Its very sad what the Democrats are doing to this country. Theyre dividing. Theyre belittling, theyre demeaning our country. So many leaders came up to me and they said sir, what you go through no President has ever gone through and its so bad for your country. People laugh at the stupidity of what theyve asked for and here, we could do asylum, we could do all of these different things so easily. We could do asylum quickly, we could do loopholes, get rid of them.  Instead, we actually make deals with Mexico and with Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, and were doing it with them instead of with our Congress, but were doing it. We get it done. The Wall is being built, by the way. That got little coverage. I went to the border. Its going up in New Mexico, its going up in Arizona, its going up in California, believe it or not. They really wanted that wall in California in San Diego. As soon as it was completed, they said we dont want a wall. They were begging me for a wall. I should take it out and move it to another location.  We were with the governor, spoke to him a lot, but the Governor of Texas, the Lieutenant Governor of Texas, Attorney General of Texas, the Senators of Texas, Cornyn and Ted Cruz. And were building an incredible wall thats  number one, its going to look great, its going to be virtually impossible to cross unless youre one hell of a mountain climber. Its very tough, its going to be very tough to get people and drugs over those walls, because theyre the real deal.  I went to the Secretary of Homeland Security and he got all his people together. I said give me four walls, your optimum, every single thing included and they gave me 20 percent less, 20 percent less, and 20 percent less, meaning less cost. They came back, they said this is the wall, sir. This would be the best. We have the panels on top, which are anti-climb panels. I dont know if you noticed the steel on top. We have a different design for a different area, but this anti-climb, its very tough. We had people going out and real climbers telling us which is the toughest to climb, but these are anti-climb panels.  Very tough to get across and the wall is going up many miles a week and we hope to have over 400, but maybe as much as 500 miles, which will pretty much do it, because you have a bunch of natural barriers. You have mountains, you have really rough rivers. You have some really rough land that you cant cross very easily. So, they serve as their natural walls, but we will, we think over 400, but we could even have 500 miles.  To combat the malice and corruption of both the Venezuelan and Iranian dictatorships, today I issued proclamations suspending the entry into the United States of senior regime officials and their families. And further, to promote American values on Monday, I was proud to be the first president in history to host a meeting at the United Nations  Im so surprised, first president for this, I cant believe that Im first. I spoke to Franklin Graham about that, I cant believe it, at the United Nations on protecting religious freedom and liberty for people around the world.  While some partisans and unelected bureaucrats in Washington may choose to fight everyday against the interests and beliefs of the American people, my administration is standing up for the American people like no administration has in many, many years. You forgot the American people, you totally forgot the American people. This week, every week, I really can say of my presidency, were standing up for American prosperity, American security and the American way of life. And together with our friends and partners, were building a more peaceful, prosperous and promising future. We have a tremendous relationship now with a lot of nations that are very happy with whats going on and that includes in South America where theyve been so helpful.  Where nobody thought this would be possible. The relationship with Mexico as an example or El Salvador or Honduras or Guatemala. Nobody even knew about it, yet we sent them hundreds of millions of dollars and all we got back was caravans of people pouring in. We had tremendous  it was terrible. And weve got that stopped and the countries are now helping us. And we stopped those payments, by the way. We dont pay those countries that money anymore, but I will tell you if theyre as good as they seem to be, theyre really doing a job on crime and stopping the wrong people from leaving and coming to the United States, well be helping them a lot with economic development projects and other things.  So, with that, we had a tremendous three days. It was beautiful to see, made a lot of new friends. I read you a list of all the countries I saw pretty much one on one and its been very busy, but its been very, very fruitful, so we could take a couple of questions. Id love some questions on some of the things that we accomplished at UNGA instead of the witch hunt, the phony witch hunt questions, which I know thats what you want to ask, because its probably better for you, but its not better for the country. So maybe well take a few questions. Please. Well, thats what he did, isnt it really, when you think about it. Look, that whole witch hunt was started and hopefully thatll all come out, but there have been some fantastic books written that just came out whether you look at Greg Jared or McCarthys book that just came out recently and so many other books. A lot of books are coming out. When you start reading those books, you see what they did to us. What theyve done to this country is a disgrace.  Theyve hurt this country very badly and no other president should have to go through what Ive gone through. The president, the new president of Ukraine is looking to stop corruption. Theres a lot of corruption going on and there was corruption  I just told you about senators that threatened him with votes and no money coming into Ukraine if they do things. Thats really what people are trying to say that I did, but the only difference is I didnt do it. You take a look at that call, it was perfect. I didnt do it.  There was no quid pro quo, but there was with Biden and there was with these senators. And they threatened. They said you do this, you do that, were not going to give you votes. Thats the real deal. So, we have an honest group of people that have been maligned and a lot of people say Ill do even better. Im very happy. Yesterday, I guess we had a 53 poll and a lot of people say add 10 points to anything, anybody voting for Trump, you can add  anytime you get a poll, you can add 10 points or seven points or six points, take it any way you want.  But I dont know if I consider that to be a compliment, but in one way it is a compliment. And I guess thats what happened in the last election. Far more people came to vote than anybody thought possible. Well, I think you can look at your senators and you can look at Biden and you can look at all these other people, but what were looking for is corruption. An investigation started called the Russian witch hunt, affectionately, and it was a total phony scam. It was set up by people within the government to try and stop somebody from getting elected and after that person namely me won and convincingly won at 306-223 in the Electoral College, which by the way, when you run a race, if you go by the college, Electoral College, thats a much different race than running popular vote.  And its like the 100-yard dash or the mile, you train differently. And I cant help it that my opponent didnt go to Wisconsin and shouldve gone much more to Michigan and Pennsylvania and other places, but thats the way it is. We won an election convincingly, convincingly. And then you had the text message on well, if she doesnt win, weve got an insurance policy. How bad was that? You know what the insurance policy  thats sort of what has been taking place over the last number of years, the insurance policy.  Now, there are a lot of very dishonest people. Were the ones that played it straight and you know what, the millions of people out there that are looking at whats going on, those people understand it. They see it and they think its disgusting. And our people are being hurt and our country is being hurt when a Nancy Pelosi allows her position to be taken over by radical, far left socialists or worse. Thats pretty bad, thats pretty bad. Especially when the senators and all of these other people have actually done what theyre accusing me of doing, which I didnt do. Im going to have Mike Pompeo say a couple of words, Im going to have Steve Mnuchin say a couple of words and then well do a couple of more questions. Thank you. Okay. Go  Okay. Go ahead. Please. Not anymore, maybe. And maybe they just say that, Kristina. Oh I just think its progressing. I think they want to make a deal. They are losing their supply chain- Well I dont want to say that but I can tell you that these two men, and in this case more specifically Steve, were having some very good conversations, and I guess its next week thats coming in and the week after. So we have a lot of, we have a lot of talks going on and also by telephone. They want to make a deal and you know why they want to make a deal? Because they are losing their jobs and because their supply chain is going to hell, and companies are moving out of China and theyre moving to lots of other places, including the United States. And thats not good. Thats far worse than they thought.  And by the way, in the meantime, were taking in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs. Were taking in tremendous numbers in tariffs, and were helping our farmers who got targeted. Now, by the way, China is starting to buy our agricultural product again. Theyre starting to go with the beef and all of the different things. Pork, very big on pork. But if you look and if you see, and they actually put out I think a statement, but theyre starting very heavy to buy our ag again. Now, they want to make a deal and they should want to make a deal. The question is, do we want to make a deal? Well, that would be a shame. Well, I dont want to answer that question, but you know how I feel about NAFTA. I think NAFTA is the worst trade deal ever made, although I also happen to think World Trade Organization was not one of the greats, no, not one of the greats. That was the creation of China, which went like a rocket ship from the day they signed. It was, it was terrible. But no, were going to find out. Thats going to be a very interesting question with Nancy and Chuck and all of these people focusing on the witch hunt because they cant beat us at the ballot. They cant beat us at the ballot, and theyre not going to win the presidential.  Were having great polls. We have internal polls that are failed. Ohio, Iowa, Pennsylvania is looking good. North Carolina. We just won two races that a lot of people, we thought were going to lose both those races. One was down 17 points three weeks before the race and he ended up winning by a substantial margin, by a substantial margin, and  Dan Bishop. And then we had a second race, as you know, and he was up one or two points and he ended up winning by, what was it, 25 points or some incredible  Ill ask you folks, cause I dont want to be inaccurate, otherwise Ill have a front page story. We have breaking news, Trump exaggerated. But he won by many, many points and he was leading by maybe two, maybe three, but he won by, in the 20s. So its, its been   So were looking great in North Carolina, looking great in Florida. And you had one or two Congressmen, Democrats , saying, Listen, we cant beat him at the election, so lets impeach him. Right? Didnt you hear Al Green. Thats a beauty, hes a real beauty that guy. But he said very distinctively  It was all over the place. I dont know, theyre trying to lose that tape I guess. But he said, We cant, essentially he said, We cant beat him, lets impeach him. Its pretty, its pretty dangerous stuff. Steve, go ahead. Yeah, I dont- Because I was getting such fake news and I just thought it would be better, and now theyre asking for the first phone conversation and Ill release that too if its important to you. But theyre asking for  Cause I had a conversation previous, on a previous election plateau that he had hit. The current president hit a couple of different plateaus and I spoke to him previous to the call that we released, which was a very innocent call. Very, very innocent, very nice call. And as he said, We were, I wasnt pushed. I wasnt pushed, meaning pressured. He wasnt pressured at all. But I dont like the concept of releasing calls because when a president or a prime minister or a king or queen calls the United States, you dont like to say, Gee, were going to release your call to the fake news media, and theyre going to make you look like a fool.  What happens is its hard to do business that way. You want to have people feel comfortable. So I hated it, but you folks were saying such lies, such horrible things about a call that was so innocent and so nice. In fact, Lindsey Graham said to me when he read it, it was very interesting. Hes a good man, hes a smart man. He said, I cant believe it. I never knew you could be this really nice to a person. He said, I cannot believe, you were so  I didnt think you had that in you to be so nice. I was nice. Im nice to a lot of people. People dont understand that, but I was, but he was shocked that it was such a nice call. Then if said there, he said, There is nothing here, and all fair people say the same thing.  But I dont like the precedent, Steve. I dont like it where youre dealing with heads of state and to think that their call is going to be released. But I, I felt that  And you know, we spoke to Ukraine about it. Mike actually called up his counterpart and we spoke to Ukraine about it because we wanted, cause it could have been, if they didnt want us to do it, we would not have done it. But he actually said, That was a very innocent call. You can release it all you want. Well, I thought we won. I thought it was dead. It was dead. The Mueller report, no obstruction, no collusion. You look at all of the things that happened. Corey Lewandowski was fantastic the other day as a person that they have been tormenting. You look at all the people that theyve tormented, all the legal fees. People came here with, with bright eyes. They wanted to make life so great for other people, and they left where they spend hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal fees that they didnt have, and its a sad thing. What these Democrats have done to ruin lives is so sad.  I have seen people with only good intention. They came to Washington because they wanted to make the United States and the world a better place, and they went home, they were dark. They got hit by Muellers subpoenas. I think there were 2,500 subpoenas or some ridiculous number, 500 people were interviewed, and yet they dont interview Joe Biden and his son? If youre a Democrat, you have automatic protection. Thats years and years of people putting in certain people into positions. But when you look at all of the trauma that these fakers have caused   And the press look, the press is, much of the press is not only fake, its corrupt. These stories they write are corrupt. Theyre so wrong, and they know that. You know, it used to be, I used to get great press until I ran for politics. I mean, I used to be the king of getting good press. I was very good at it and I got good. I mean, they covered me well for  Otherwise I probably wouldnt be here. And once I ran I said, Boy, this is incredible. But if you see the way they treat, my family used to be treated great. My family works so hard. The people that work with me, these people, all of these people, they work so hard. Theyve done such a good   Look, we have the greatest economy weve ever had. We have a military, two and a half trillion dollars, weve rebuilt our military. You dont hear the vets complaining. Weve got choice approved. It couldnt be approved. But when you see what happened with the viciousness  And when you see little Adam Schiff go out and lie and lie and stand at the mic, smart guy by the way, stand at the mic and act like hes so serious. And then he goes into a room with Nadler and they must laugh their asses off. They must laugh their asses off.  But its so bad for our country. People have said  Rush Limbaugh, great man. Sean Hannity said it. A lot of people have said it, Mark Levin. They said they dont know of one man anywhere in the world, with all the men they know, or a woman, that could handle what Ive had to handle. And I think thats true, but I handle it. To me its like putting on a suit.  All right. How about one more question question on the economy? A question on the economy. Go ahead. Go ahead. Good, good, wow. How are you doing over there? Yeah, I would say pretty bad. Yeah, sad. And it was one of the great countries and one of the richest countries not so long ago, 15 years ago. Its incredible. Right, I agree with that and were helping you. Go ahead. Well, Id just say that socialism will never happen in the United States, cant happen in the United States. And Venezuela  Unfortunately, I have to use your country as the example of what socialism can do, how it can tear the fabric of a country apart, because I know a lot about Venezuela. Ive had many, many friends of mine come from Venezuela. They live, many in Miami, a certain section of Miami. I wont mention the name because theyll say Im thinking about my business and Im not, but they are fantastic people and they like your president. Theyve voted overwhelmingly for me. They like what Im doing for Venezuela.  We have Venezuela very much in our hearts and very much in our sights, and were watching it very carefully. And you know what I would say? Were giving millions and millions of dollars in aid. Not that we want to from the Maduro standpoint, but we have to because on a humanitarian  People are dying. They have no food, they have no water, they have no nothing. Theyre dying, no medicine. The hospitals are closed or dont even have electricity. Its so sad to see. Let me just say, we have it under control. Were watching it very carefully and were going to be very, very  Were watching it very carefully, including other countries that may or may not be playing games. Were watching it very clearly. Just put this in the back of your mind. Its all going to be fine. We know everything that you said, and its all going to be fine. Were very much involved. We very much know whats going on and were very much in. Well, okay. Thank you all very much. Thank you."
"a lot of work on health care. Were very successful at it. And so were going to be speaking to the great people of Florida and I think theyre very happy with the job were doing. Yeah? What? Well, if youre looking at the whistleblowers complaint its totally inaccurate because the conversation that I had was absolutely perfect and most people that have read it say the same thing. The whistleblower never saw the conversation, he got his information, I guess, second or third hand he wrote something that was total fiction. And now when people see that theyre not happy.  Well, were looking at a lot of different things. Chinas coming in next week, were going to have a meeting with them. Well see. But were doing very well. Some of the numbers, I think, are being affected by all of the nonsense, all of the politics going on in this country by the Democrats. I call them the do nothings; they do nothing for this country. They dont care about this country, but the numbers really are looking very good going into the future. So, well see. I have a lot of options on China, but if they dont do what we want, we have tremendous, tremendous power. Well, I would think that if they were honest about it, that sort of major investigation into the bias, its a very simple answer. They should investigate the Bidens because how does a company thats newly formed and all these companies did you look at  and by the way, likewise, China just started an investigation into the Bidens because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with with Ukraine.  So, I would say that president Zelinsky, if it were me, I would recommend that they start an investigation into the Bidens because nobody has any doubt that they werent crooked. That was a crooked deal. 100%. He had no knowledge of energy, didnt know the first thing about it. All of a sudden hes getting $50,000 a month plus a lot of other things. Nobody has any doubt. And they got rid of a prosecutor who was a very tough prosecutor. They got rid of them. Now theyre trying to make it the opposite way, but they got rie- So, if I were the president, I would certainly recommend that of Ukraine.  I havent, but certainly something we can start thinking about because Im sure that President Xi does not like being under that kind of scrutiny where billions of dollars is taken out of his country by a guy that just got kicked out of the Navy. He got kicked out of the Navy. All of the sudden hes getting billions of dollars. You know what they call that? They call that a pay off.  Well, I leave that to the lawyers. I can say though, that Schiff has now been proven to be a liar. Weve known it for three years because theyve been trying to impeach for three years. Hes a lie- Hes just stone cold liar. So, I leave that to the lawyers. Thats up to them to decide. But the whole investigation is crumbling. Yeah? I can. Yeah, I can. I can. I can.  We have a real problem. Weve been hitting the Taliban very, very hard. And as far as Im concerned, they still havent recovered from killing 12 people, one who happened to be a great American soldier from Puerto Rico and they still have not recovered and they probably never will.  No. But I read Mitch McConnells statement yesterday and he read my phone call and as you know, he put out his statement that said that was the most innocent phone call hes read. And I spoke to him about it, too. He read my phone call with the President of Ukraine, Mitch McConnell. He said that was the most innocent phone call that Ive read. I mean, give me a break. Anybody that reads it says the same thing. And the only people that dont understand it is when they look at the false, fabricated, fraudulent statement made by shifty Schiffs.  Well, I think Biden is going down and I think his whole situation, because now you may very well find that there are many other countries that they scammed, just like they scammed China and Ukraine and basically who are they really scamming? The USA and its not good. And thats probably why China, for so many years, has had a sweetheart deal where China rips off the USA because they deal like people with Biden where they give their son a billion and a half dollars. And thats probably why China has such a sweetheart deal that for so many years theyve been ripping off our guns.  Were looking at it. Were looking at it very closely. Its under study.  Well see. They want to talk and well be talking to him, too. Well see.  Im going to  Yes? I heard very bad things about her and I dont know if I recalled her or somebody recalled her, but I heard very, very bad things about it for a long period of time. Not good.  Thank you. Ill see you in Florida. Ill see you all in Florida."
"Unemployment numbers just came out, and theyre the best numbers weve had in over 50 years. The unemployment number is down to 3.5%, so that goes way, way back. We havent had numbers like this in a long time. Wages are up by almost 3%, thats a fantastic increase for everybody out there working. Were very happy about those numbers. The stock market is substantially up as it was yesterday, and our country does well. Europe is not doing well. Asia is doing poorly, to put it mildly. And we continue to do very well, were the miracle.  But the unemployment numbers just came out, 3.5% unemployment, and that is a tremendous number, the lowest in over 50 years. So, very happy. And I think really very important, again, Ill say, wages are up. When I was running, wages were nowhere. They were going down and people were having doing three jobs, and they were making less money than they made 20 years before. Now wages are up, so were very happy about that.  One other thing having to do with Poland. So Poland is a country, great people. We have a lot of Polish Americans living in the United States. Ive just signed, I will soon be signing, and signed certain preliminary applications, we will be giving a full visa waiver to Poland. That means that people from Poland can easily travel there, and people from here can easily go back and forth. They can each, people from the U.S., people from Poland can very easily go back and forth between the United States in Poland. So theyve been trying to get this for many, many decades, and I got it for the Polish people in honor of the Polish people in the United States and in Poland. So were very happy with that. Yeah? Well, I heard Adam Schiff got four Pinocchios. Thats good. He shouldve gotten them two and a half years ago. Thats a very nice question, let me shake your hand. Come here. Thats a very nice question. Almost a surprise, I figured that was a trick question. Well, well be issuing a letter. As everybody knows, weve been treated very unfairly, very different from anybody else. If you go over, not only history, I mean, you go over any aspect of life, youll see how unfairly weve been treated. Weve done a fantastic job. Everything to me is about corruption. We want to find out what happened with 2016, and as you know, theres a lot of work going on on that. I dont care about Bidens campaign, but I do care about corruption. His campaign, thats up to him. Politics, thats up to them. I dont care about politics. Politics, as I think I made clear, and yesterday somebody asked me a question, and I gave an answer, but always in the form of corruption, what I want to do, and I think I have an obligation to do it, probably a duty to do it, corruption. We are looking for corruption.  When you look at what Biden and his son did, and when you look at other people, what theyve done, and I believe there was tremendous corruption with Biden, but I think there was beyond, I mean beyond corruption having to do with the 2016 campaign and what these lowlifes did to so many people to hurt so many people in the Trump campaign, which was successful despite all of the fighting us. I mean, despite all of the unfairness. So we are looking at corruption. Were not looking at politics, were looking at corruption. I dont know. Somebody said that a long time ago  was that in 2017? I dont know, youd have to tell me when. All I can tell you this, when I speak to foreign leaders, I speak in an appropriate way. If you notice, they dont mention the call that I had with the President of Ukraine. They dont mention that because it was so good. The only time they mentioned it was when Adam Schiff made it up. You talk about Pinocchios, that should get 10 Pinocchios. He made up a story, it was a phony story, Adam Schiff. So they dont talk about that anymore.  You know when this came out, it was quid pro quo. Well there was none. Also yesterday, the Ambassador, who I heard was tremendous, and a tremendous person, he was 100% for what were saying, 100%. And if you look, he also said there was no quid pro quo. Thats the whole ball game. But now the Democrats dont bring that up anymore because they lied. Look, they never thought I was going to release the phone call between the Ukrainian President and myself. When I released that call, they were jumping around like you wouldnt believe. They didnt know how to respond. And then they found out that the call itself was so bad for them. It was a perfect call. There was nothing. We hand that out. Weve handed the call out to people, and they say, Wow, this is incredible. Were very proud of that call. When I speak to a foreign leader, I speak in an inappropriate manner.  Now, were also doing trade deals with China, and were doing deals with a lot of people for the country. So Im not looking to insult people, I can tell you that, but we could probably find that out- No, it has nothing to do with it. No. No, I want to do a trade deal with China, but only if its good for our country, and it could happen. As you know, theyre very much coming over, next week, as I understand it. So Id like to do a trade deal with China, but only if its a great trade deal for this country. One thing has nothing to do with the other. Well, I wouldnt mind because we have no rights. The way theyre doing it, theyve taken away our rights. So if they proceed, and you know, theyll just get their people, theyre all in line, because even though many of them dont want to vote, they have no choice. They have to follow their leadership. And then well get it to this Senate, then were going to win. The Republicans have been very unified.  This is the greatest witch hunt in the history of our country. So we beat the one that started immediately. We went through two years of Mueller, and that came out like at 10, it came out perfect. And a few days go by, and they start this nonsense, and this is just as ridiculous. So the Democrats, unfortunately, they have the votes. They could vote very easily, even though most of them, many of them dont believe they should do it. And I do believe, I do believe that because of what theyre doing, with Pelosi and theyre real leaders, AOC plus three, thats their real leaders, I really believe that theyre going to pay a tremendous price at the polls.  And we saw the first glimpse of it two weeks ago in a great state, North Carolina. We saw a great, great glimpse of whats going to happen, because in North Carolina we had two races. One gentleman, Dan Bishop, was down by 17 points with three weeks to go, and he won easily. And the other man, as you know, Greg Murphy, was up by a very little bit, and he won by a massive amount. I dont know, some place in the 20s, 20% or something, maybe higher. So I think you got your first glimpse of whats going to happen. And the big key is that I have to campaign there. But if you look at what happened in North Carolina, two races, we won both of them, and we won them easily, and one was almost tied, and the other one was a big, big lead, and that one turned, and the tie became a land side. Well, I dont know about Mitch. I have a lot of respect for Mitch McConnell. I know that I saw his statements, and he thinks that this is ridiculous, he thinks its unfair. I saw his statement yesterday that he put out where he read my phone conversation, and he thought it was a wonderful conversation. And it was. But see, the Democrats dont talk about that anymore. They try and go to other things. These people are looking for anything they can get because they know theyre going to lose the election, and were in election season now. For them be doing this now, its never been done. What? So were dealing with North Korea. They want to meet, and well be meeting with them. Its probably being set up as we speak, but well let you know. But North Korea would like to do something, Iran would like to do something. We have a lot of countries in a very good position right now, despite the witch hunt, which hurts our country and it hurts in America. But Iran wants to do something, North Korea wants to do something, and China would like to do something. I dont know, that youd have to ask  Is the Justice Department investigating Joe Biden? Well, that youd have to ask Attorney General Barr, but I can tell you just as an observer, what I saw Biden do with his son, he is pillaging these countries, and hes hurting us. How would you like to have, as an example, Joe Biden negotiating the China deal. If he took it over from me after the election, he would give them  wait  he would give them everything. He would give them everything. How would you like to have that? Joe Biden would just roll out the red carpet, hed give them everything.  So again, this doesnt pertain to anything but corruption. And that has to do with me. I dont care about politics, I dont care about anything, but I do care about corruption. And to have somebody take out a billion-and-a-half dollars out of China, who is totally unfit, hes unfit, to have him get a billion-and-a-half dollars, to have him, and now Im hearing the number of 50,000 a month, now Im hearing the number of $50,000 a month is very low, its a much higher number that Bidens son was getting per month. In fact, its much higher. And for him as a totally unqualified person to be getting hundreds of thousands a month is very, very sad.  So again, is the Justice Department investigating that? I just dont know. Well, I think they follow the leader. One thing with the Democrats, I give them credit for it, a lot of them dont want it. You know that, you interview them. A lot of them are in, they call them Trump districts, where I won, and then they won after when I was in running. But Im going to win them big. If you look at whats happened with my polls, theyre through the roof. You know why? Because of this phony witch hunt. If you look at what happened with the fundraising, weve set a record, the Republicans, because people are sick and tired of it.  I got a call the other night from pastors, the biggest pastors, Evangelical Christians. They said, We have never seen our religion or any religion so electrified. They say theyve never seen anything like it. Churches are joining, hundreds of thousands of people. And you know, thats to a large extent because of you, and your partner, the Democrats. Well, I think this, I think this. We have a great relationship in the Senate. I have a 95% approval rating of the Republican Party. I believe the Senate, and I havent spoken to that many senators, but I believe the Senators look at this as a hoax. Its a witch hunt. Its a disgrace. Should have never happened. Just like Russia collusion delusion should have never happened, that was a witch hunt. And just like that, should have never happened. So I think of the Senate, I think they feel that the Republican Party has been treated very, very badly. Now in the House, they have the majority, they all vote with AOC plus three. Nancy Pelosis petrified of them. I mean, shes afraid shes going to lose her position. Nancy Pelosi will lose her speakership right after the election, when the Republicans take over the House. The one text message that I saw was just about the last text message, because I dont even know most of these ambassadors. I didnt even know their names. But the text message that I saw from Ambassador Sondland, whos highly respected, was theres no quid pro quo. He said that. He said, By the way, it almost sounded like in general, he said, By the way, theres no quid pro quo. And there isnt. Now, for Biden. There would be. But listen to this, there is no pro quo. And that was the text message that I saw, and that nullified everything. We would have to look, but I tell you, what I asked for, and what I always will ask for, is anything having to do with corruption, with respect to our country. If a foreign country can help us with respect to corruption, and corruption probes, and I dont care if its Biden or anybody else, but if they can help us, if Biden is corrupt, if his son is corrupt, when his son takes out billions of dollars, billions, and he has no experience, he just got fired from the Navy, when they do that, thats no good. So the only, just to finish your question, anything having to do with corruption, I actually feel I have an obligation to do that. No, I dont say anything is okay. Ill tell you whats okay. Here is whats okay. If we feel there is corruption, like I feel that was in the 2016 campaign, there was tremendous corruption against me, if we feel there is corruption, we have a right to go to a foreign country. And just so you know, just so you know- I was investigated. I was investigated. Okay? Me. Me, in my campaign, I ran, I won, I was investigated. You wont say that, will you? I was investigated, I was investigated, and they think it could have been by U.K. They think it could have been by Australia. They think it could have been by Italy. So when you get down to it, I was investigated by the Obama administration. By the Obama administration, I was investigated. So when these people talk  But as far as Im concerned, what I want to look at and what we want to investigate, anything having to do with corruption. I view China as somebody were trying to make a deal with, we have a very good chance of making a deal with. Weve had good moments with China, weve had bad moments with China. Right now, were in a very important stage in terms of possibly making a deal. If we make it, itll be the biggest trade deal ever made, if we make it. But I view China as somebody that we deal with on the worlds stage. I would like to get along with China if we can, and if we can, thats great. If we cant, thats okay too. But what were doing is were negotiating a very tough deal. If the deal is not going to be 100% for us, then were not going to make it.  And I will say this, I will say this. I will say this, China very much wants to make this deal. Chinas getting killed. The tariffs are killing China. Whats happened is they have now three million loss of jobs, their chains are broken up. If you look at their supply chain, its a disaster. Companies are going to other countries, including us. China right now is a total disaster. No, no, no, no. Let me tell you, Im only interested in corruption. I dont care about politics. I dont care about Bidens politics. I never thought Biden was going to win, to be honest. I picked somebody else a long time ago, and well see what happens. But I never thought Biden was going to win, but I dont care. I mean, frankly, if he won Id be very happy. I think hed be an easy opponent. But I never thought Biden was going to win. I dont care about politics, but I do care about corruption. And this whole thing is about corruption. This whole thing, this whole thing is about corruption. This is about corruption, and this is not about politics. This is about corruption. And if you look, and you read our Constitution and many other things, I have an obligation to look at corruption. I have an actual obligation and a duty. What? I dont know. Thats up to the lawyers. I know the lawyers think theyve never seen anything so unfair. Theyve never seen anything so unjust. Ive been president now for almost three years, and Ive been going through this for almost three years. Its almost become like a part of my day. But in the meantime, we have the best economy weve ever had. We have the best job numbers weve had in 51 years, the best unemployment numbers that weve had in a half a century. The best numbers that weve ever had. African Americans, Hispanic American, Asian American, women, everything, we have the best numbers that weve had in many, many, many decades. And you know what? People understand that. People are working, theyre making money. If you look at one very important number that was just announced, wages, up 3%. Thats unheard of. Thats unheard of. So its a great thing. I didnt hear you. Go, go.  Were investigating corruption. Were not investigating campaigns. I dont care about his campaign. As I said, I didnt think and I dont think Bidens going to win. All right? I dont think. And maybe to answer your question, when you say who is going to win, Id rather not make a prediction, but I do have a feeling about somebody. But I didnt think, because Ive watched Biden over the years, and Biden is not the brightest person. I never thought he was going to win. I never felt he was going to win. If you look at his other two campaigns, he was a one percenter, he got very few votes. He got taken off of the garbage heap by Obama. Obama took him off the garbage heap, so its one of those things. But I never thought that Biden, I didnt think Biden was going to win. I guess everybody has a shot, but I dont think he would be, frankly, my toughest opponent either. And just to finish off, I dont think that he will win. I didnt think he was going to win, and I dont think he is going to win. Its fine. I mean, its fine. Shes a socialist, and maybe worse than that. But well see. I heard, I havent seen these poll numbers. I havent seen Bidens poll numbers. Look, Joe Biden was never going to make it, all right? He was never going to make it. He tried it twice, he was at 1%. Theres a reason. When I announced, I went to number one day one, and I stayed there the entire primary season. I never was off center stage. I was never given credit for that, but thats okay, except by Steve. The only ones that gave me credit was Steve. Who? No, they were trying to set up a meeting, but he wanted sanctions lifted, and I said, You must be kidding. We had no interest. Rouhani wanted a meeting at the UN. We did talk. I didnt speak to him personally, but our sides talked, he wanted sanctions lifted or partially lifted, and I said no. Were watching Venezuela very, very closely. The people are suffering, and we are watching it very closely. Were also giving big aid to Venezuela. Now, one thing, Im now going to Walter Reed Hospital. Were going to be giving out five Purple Hearts to unbelievably brave young people. And Im going to meet you, some of you are going over. I dont know, I think some of you are going over, so we can talk further over there. Although when were there, I would like you to respect the process. Were giving out Purple Hearts to very brave people, wounded warriors, people that have been, I mean, theyre just incredible people, and Im going to be back here in probably two hours. Thank you, good job here."
"Hes meeting today with some of our representatives. Mike Pence is leaving today, as you know. We needed to take an extra day for security reasons, but Mike is leaving. Mike Pompeo will be meeting also, whos here right now with us and whos going to be joining the meeting.  We have a lot of great people over there well see. In the meantime, our soldiers are not in harms way, as they shouldnt be, as two countries fight over land. That has nothing to do with us. The Kurds are much safer right now, but the Kurds know how to fight. As I said, theyre not angels, theyre not angels. If you take a look, you have to go back and take a look, but they fought with us. We paid a lot of money for them to fight with us and thats okay. They did well when they fought with us. They didnt do so well when they didnt fight with us.  When I refused to allow the Americans, a year and a half ago, to fight with the Kurds against Iraq I said, Wait a minute. This country, stupidly, just spend a fortune on fighting for, with, around Iraq. Nobody knows how they spent it, but they spent, actually, were in the Middle East now for $8-trillion, if you can believe that stupidity. In Iraq, were in for probably five-and-a-half-trillion.  Theyre telling me, Wait a minute, we just spent five-and-a-half-trillion fighting in Iraq, and with Iraq. Now, were supposed to spend money to fight with the Kurds against the Iraq. I said, No thank you. What happens is, when I said were not going to fight with the Kurds, the Kurds left. They didnt want to fight against Iraq, which right now isnt the greatest fighting force in the world. That happened twice. The Kurds actually are pulling back substantially from Turkey, and Syria is pulling in.  Syria probably will have a partner of Russia, whoever they may have. I wish them all a lot of luck. Russia was involved in Afghanistan. It used to be called the Soviet Union. Now, its called Russia for a reason. Because, they lost so much money in Afghanistan that they had to downsize. A very big downsizing. If Russia wants to get involved with Syria, thats really up to them. They have a problem with Turkey, they have a problem at a border, its not our border. We shouldnt be losing lives over it. Again, we only had 28 soldiers. It was 26, 28. I got all different numbers. It ends up being 28, between the 26, 28. Two people, and theyre fully accounted for.  Thats the story. Its very simple. Were watching, were negotiating, and were trying to get Turkey to do the right thing, because wed like to stop wars regardless. Whether Americans are in, or whether theyre not in, we want to see war stopped. Thats a very important thing. On a humanitarian basis, we want to see that happen. Steve? Why dont you go and dictate? Yes, please. I viewed the situation on the Turkish border with Syria to be, for the United States, strategically brilliant. Our soldiers are out of there. Our soldiers are totally safe. Theyve got to work it out. Maybe they can do it without fighting. Syria is protecting the Kurds. Thats good. By the way, every player hates ISIS. Everybody were talking about. Syria, more than us. Russia, more than us. Theyve done a big number on Russia, and were over there fighting ISIS but theyre over there fighting ISIS too. They can handle it, and they should handle it. We can fight our own battles on our own territories. You have a lot of countries over there that ha hate ISIS as much as we do. In some cases, probably more. They can take care of ISIS.  We have them captured. The United States captured them. Some were released just for effect, to make us look a little bit like, Oh gee, we got to get right back in there. You have a lot of countries over there that have power, and that hate ISIS very much. As much as we do. I think were in a very strategically good position. I know the fake news doesnt make it look that way, but weve removed all of our, as we said, 50 soldiers, but much less than 50 soldiers. Theyre now in a very, very safe location, heading into an even safer location.  We will help negotiate. We have tremendously powerful sanctions. Our countries become economically much more powerful than, frankly, it ever was. We picked up trillions, and trillions of dollars in worth. The market was up big yesterday. Its going to be up big today, it looks like. The trade deal with China, just having to do with what weve done with the financial services, with banks, with the farmers has been incredible. Far greater than anyone ever thought. I agree, it hasnt been papered yet, but its being papered.  In the meantime, as you know, and as weve said many times, Chinas already started buying. They want to buy, they want to make a deal. They really have to make a deal. Their economy has been hurt very badly by what weve done, and by the tariffs that weve charged. Weve taken in tremendous amounts of tariffs. A small portion of that weve given to the farmers, which has more than made up for what theyve lost. Go ahead.  Because of the newfound economic power of the United States, because of the fact that weve made so many trillions, many, many trillions of dollars in worth of the United States to, I call it the newfound economic power. If my opponent would have won, China would right now be the most powerful nation economically in the world, and right now theyre not even close. If were smart, they never will get close. It depends on who sits in this chair.  The United States has tremendous economic power. Far more power than playing around with having a few soldiers shooting each other at the border. You have a few soldiers, back and forth killing each other at the border. The power we have with sanctions and tariffs as far greater than what were talking about. With that being said, our military has been completely rebuilt. Much of the equipments already been delivered. We spent two-and-a-half-trillion dollars rebuilding it over the last three years. Our military power is at the highest level, and our economic powers is at the highest level. Id always rather use economic power before I use military power, because people arent getting killed with economic power, okay?  Please go. In theory, there cant be retaliation, because this was an award that we got because of the fact that the European Union took advantage of past presidents. This was an award that we got for the unfair treatment given to the United States by the European Union, so there should be no retaliation. This was getting us even, because seven-and-a-half-billion dollars worth of things happened. Bad things happened, unfair things happened to the United States by the European Union. This was just getting us back to even, and nobody else but me wouldve gotten that seven-and-a-half-billion dollars back for the taxpayers of the United States. Yeah. Yeah. Now look, John Bolton, I get along well with him. Some people didnt. Some people didnt like John Bolton. I actually got along with them pretty well. It just didnt work out. I dont know that he got along with Rudy Giuliani. Rudy Giuliani was seeking out corruption, and what happens mostly in the 2016 election, because there was tremendous corruption in the 2016 election. I think even you would admit that the election, it was disgraceful what happened, and what happened to me, and what happened to the Republicans. That continues with Nancy Pelosi, and with Schiff. Adam Schiff got caught making up statements that he said I said, that I didnt say, which is fraud. Its purely fraudulent, so it continues.  Rudy was a great prosecutor. He was the best mayor in the history of the city of New York, as far as I can see. I think hes pretty much acknowledged what he did for crime, and everything else. When he saw what was going on with our election of 2016, the election I won, but the election that was absolutely corrupted by things that took place in government. Now, well see what happens. The IG reports going going to come out soon, and well see what happens.  I think people, I know nothing about it in terms of the report. Im waiting for the report like everybody else, but I predict you will see things that you dont even believe, the level of corruption. Whether its Comey, whether its Strzok and his lover, Page, whether its so many other people; McCabe, whether its president Obama himself. Lets see whether or not its President Obama. Lets see whether or not they put that in. Wait a minute. Lets see whether or not.  Rudy saw that, and I can tell you Rudy Giuliani, because he was very, very incensed at the horrible things that he saw, as are many people, okay, and many Republicans. The Republicans have been treated very unfairly by the Democrats. Ill say this. Paul Ryan would never issue a subpoena. I dont say right or wrong. He wouldnt do it. He had too much respect for our country. Nancy Pelosi hands them out like cookies. Everybody. I dont even know these people, and for the most part people like that . I dont even know who they are. I never even heard of some of them, most of them, but I have all these people testifying. Then, they leak out. They dont say the good parts, they only say the bad parts.  Were not allowed to representation. Were not allowed to lawyers. Were not allowed to have anything. The Democrats have treated the Republicans very, very badly. Fortunately, we have a lot of good, strong, smart Republicans, but they never dealt, John, with the Democrats the way the Democrats deal. The Republicans wont forget it, because what theyre doing, what the Democrats are doing to this nation is a disgrace. What they have done, the disrespect that theyve shown to the Presidency, and itll happen to them. If the Republicans have the house, which I think they will, because of impeachment. I think that because of this nonsense, impeachment, its based on a perfect phone conversation. An absolutely perfect phone conversation with the President of Ukraine.  A friend of mine whos a top lawyer, , he said, This is perfect. You didnt say Did you know this was going to happen? I actually thought it was going to happen. There were many people listening to that conversation. When I speak to a leader, like if I speak to the President of Italy, if I speak to anybody, I know that there are many intelligence people on the line. I know that, with my understanding of knowledge. I dont know exactly who, but I assume there are many people. Fortunately, they had a transcribers, stenographers, people that do this for a living on the line because we have an exact copy of the report of the call.  The call was put out immediately when I started hearing about the whistleblower. Well, the whistleblowers report was totally wrong. The whistleblower it didnt know what he was talking about, or was given false information, or was even worse than that. Now, all of a sudden Schiff doesnt want to talk to the whistleblower. Now, all of a sudden, quid pro quo doesnt matter because now they see, in the call, there was no quid pro quo. With Rudy, Rudy was seeking out corruption. I think theres nothing wrong with seeking out corruption.   Did you have, Steve? I dont know what he did. I dont know. Thats up to him. That, you have to ask Excuse me, no. You have to ask Rudy those questions, dont ask me. Rudy was one of many people that was incensed at the corruption that took place during that election. Pure corruption. For instance, I still ask the FBI, Where is the server? How come the FBI never got the server from the DNC? Where is the server? I want to see the server. Lets see whats on the server. The server, they say, is held by a company whose primary ownership individual is from Ukraine. Id like to see the server. I think its very important for this country to see the server. Nobody wants to see it. The media never wants to see it, but Ill tell you, Republicans want to see it, so Republicans arent treated well.  Heres the problem. I think were going to take the House based on whats happening with the impeachment stuff. The Republicans can do the same thing in reverse if they ever have, and I hope its going to be a long time because nobodys done a better job with the economy, with our military. Whether Ive rebuilt the military, our economy is the best thats ever been. We have numbers that just came out where, not including taxes, the median household income for the average American has increased $5,000 in a very short time since Ive been President. Nobodys ever heard of numbers like that.  People want to find out, why was it so corrupt during that election? I want to find out more than anybody else. Steve, go ahead. Were confident, and we have a great air base there. Very powerful air base. That air base alone can Take anyplace. Its a large, powerful air base. Turkey, just so people remember. Turkey is a NATO member. Were supposed to get along with our NATO members, and Turkey is a NATO member. Do people want us to start shooting at a NATO member? That would be a first. Thats all involved having to do with NATO. Yeah. Id say this. I think that shes done this country a tremendous disservice. Shes created a phony witch hunt, another one. First one failed. Theyre all failing. This one is just absolutely crazy. All you have to do is read the transcript of the call. Read the transcript. This is a open and shut, simple case. Theyre desperate, because they know theyre going to lose the election. Theyre desperate to do something, because they know theyre going to lose the election.  This administration has created the strongest economy in the history of our country. We have the greatest stock market. We had over a hundred times, we broke the record for stock market. If you look at peoples stocks, their 401ks. If you look at anything you want to look at, theyre far better off now than they probably ever have been in this country. Record stock markets. Dont forget, stock markets not just rich people, its all people. All people own in the stock markets. New York stock exchange, all of them. Theyre at record highs. Nobodys ever done what weve done.  Theyre playing games. They figure, they cant win the election, so maybe we can find some ground. Well get somebody that Trump never met and maybe theyll say something bad about Trump. If they do really bad, maybe it can stick a little bit. I dont think its going to work. Theyve treated the Republican party with great disrespect. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you.  My meeting with the family was really it was beautiful in a certain way. They did not want to meet with the person in question, but we had a very good meeting. Theyre very nice people. We met with the full group. It was four people, actually. You know how its all broken up, and the meeting took place right here at about six oclock last night. It was very sad, to be honest. She lost,, and they lost their son. I believe it was going down the wrong way because that happens in Europe. You go to Europe and the roads are opposite, and its very tough. If youre from the United States, you do make that decision to make a right turn where youre supposed to make a left turn.  The roads are opposite, and she said thats what happened. That happens to a lot of people, by the way. She said thats what happened. She was in the room right out there. We met right here in this area. I offered to bring the person in question in, and they werent ready for it, but I did offer. I spoke with Boris. He asked me if Id do that, and I did it. Unfortunately, they wanted to meet with her. Unfortunately, when we had everybody together they decided not to meet. Perhaps, they had lawyers involved by that time. I dont know exactly. I know the people were lovely. They were very nice, and they were desperately sad. I thought they were. Based on what I saw, they wanted to meet. Now, they say they only want to meet if theyre in the UK. Thatll be up to them. I did meet the family, and I expressed condolences on behalf of our country. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.  Wait, wait. Theres a great question Im being asked. This is maybe the greatest question Ive been asked in a long time. Please put those mics over here. Go ahead, say it again. We are looking at Italy very strongly. As you know, the seven-and-a-half is to be a divided the way we say. Weve divided it up. Italy has got a problem with the way weve divided it up, because they said they had much less to do with it, and Germany had more to do with it, and France had more to do with it, as an example. We are going to look at that very strongly. Ambassador Lighthizer is here. Were going to look at it very strongly, okay? Thank you. Good question. I love that question. Thank you all very much. Thank you.  Theyre doing a bad thing. Ill talk to you. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Steve, please treat them nicely. Treat Italy nicely. Afternoon Press Conference Transcript  Thank you very much. Today, it is my honor to welcome President Sergio Mattarella of Italy to the White House. Weve known each other for a while. Weve dealt with each other for a while, and weve had some really great conversations. Weve had a very productive discussion throughout the day with our staffs and representatives, and I look forward to hosting the president and his daughter, Laura, at a reception for the Italian Americans this evening. I look forward to that very much. The United States and Italy are bound together by a shared cultural and political heritage dating back thousands of years to Ancient Rome. Over the centuries, the Italian people have blessed our civilization with magnificent works of art, science, philosophy, architecture, and music. On Monday, we paid tribute to the Italian explorer who led a voyage of discovery to the New World, a gentleman known as Christopher Columbus, and to me, it will always be called Columbus Day.  Some people dont like that. I do. Today, the United States and Italy draw a strength from our cherished heritage as we work together to safeguard our people and promote prosperity. As NATO allies, our countries cooperate closely on a wide range of critical defense issues, including the protection of our nations against radical Islamic terrorism. The problem is that Italy is only paying 1.1% instead of the mandated 2%, which by and of itself is a low number. It should be probably 4%, anywhere from four to five percent. Only eight of the 29 NATO countries are paying the 2%, meaning 20 of the countries are delinquent in the payment to NATO, and they have been for many years. And Germany is at 1.3% at most, depending on calculations. Spain is at less than 1%. Turkey, believe it or not, is almost current, almost paid up, and I want to just thank Secretary General Stoltenberg because hes going around saying that President Trump was able to raise over $100 billion last year, which is true, but its still only a large fraction. Its still a large fraction of the amount of money thats owed by many of the countries that arent paying their dues.  We hope that Italy will boost its defense spending in order to meet NATOs minimum 2% of GDP, and I will say that they have just purchased, and we learned about it today, 90 brand new, beautiful F35s. The Strike Fighter program is doing phenomenally well. One of our major challenges and the challenge facing NATO today is instability in the Mediterranean, North Africa areas, and much of the volatility in that region stems from the violence in Libya, which is very close to Italys borders. President and I were talking about that at great length, big problem. The ongoing Libyan conflict has led to a migration crisis, placing significant and unfair burdens on Italy in particular. Ive asked that the European Union get much more involved because theyre not involved enough. Thats a problem for the European Union. They do very well with us on trade. They had a trade surplus with the United States over the last five or six years of about $150 billion a year. They have to get more involved and help Italy.  The Italian government has stepped up as a leader to fight this illegal immigration. We urge, also, our NATO and European partners to take firm action to halt illegal immigration and uphold sovereign borders. Immigration control is critical to national security and essential to the well-being of our citizens. Nations must be able to vet, screen, and properly manage entry and admission into society. You know the legislation that we had passed, we have absolutely no help from the Democrats on our borders, absolutely nothing. The closure of loopholes, which would be very easy to do, they refuse to do. They want open borders, and Italy doesnt want open borders, and were not going to have open borders, and our numbers are very good. I want to thank, also, Mexico and the president of Mexico for the great help theyve given us. Theyve helped us much more than the Democrats. Here in the United States, were taking dramatic action to secure our borders, shut down smuggling networks, and speed the removal of illegal immigrants.  Were moving the MS-13 gang members out literally by the thousands. Theyre getting out. Were dropping them out of our country, and they cant come back. And what weve done with Guatemala and Honduras and El Salvador is, they tell me, close to a miracle, the agreements that weve signed. They accept them back, and they keep them back. Its a much different relationship than weve ever had with those three countries, and I want to thank the leadership of those three countries. Weve been working well, very well together. Our message is clear. If you enter illegally, the United States, you will be promptly returned home. Theyre all returning home. It takes a long time because weve had years of people coming and staying, and thats the end of that. President Mattarella, he also discussed the steps we must take to enhance commerce and economic growth between our two countries. Our nations are already investing nearly $70 billion in each others economies. Without the burdens, as unfair as they are, imposed by the European Union, we would actually have a much higher number than $70 billion between Italy and the United States.  However, we can do more, and we can achieve fairness and reciprocity, which we dont have right now. Americas trade deficit with Italy accounts for about 20% of our nearly 150 to 170 billion dollar, probably according to some estimates, it could even be $178 billion annual trade deficit with the European Union. We welcome Italys support for a mutually beneficial trade agreement with the EU that ensures a level playing field for American workers, and it hasnt been that for many, many years. I could solve the problem instantly, but it would be too harsh. Itd be too harsh. It would involve tariffs on European products coming into this country, and for right now, were going to try and do it without that. But that would solve the problem instantly because the United States is not being treated fairly. We also welcome Italys participation in combating predatory trade and investment practices worldwide, especially in technology. We must work together to shield our intellectual property, critical infrastructure, ports, and data security.  I applaud Italys recent commitment to use only safe and trustworthy technology providers, components, and supply chains, especially relating to the 5G networks. We will work together to take further steps to secure the technology of the future, and speaking of 5G and how it relates to China, weve done a rather incredible trade deal, especially right now, phase one, for our farmers and for the finance industry, financial services, and its been really quite amazing.  Excuse me? Is there a problem back there? Its been quite amazing. The level of receptivity has been much different than in the past. China and myself are representatives. Theyre representatives. I made a deal from 40 to 50 billion dollars in farm products, agricultural products. People said we were hoping for 20. So, Chinas been good, and theyve already started purchasing, by the way. Thats already started. The agreement, we hoped to have it signed sometime prior to Chile. Were going to Chile. President Xi and myself will probably do a signing over there of phase one, assuming it all gets finished up, which we think it will. Theres been a lot of good will between the United States and China over the last period of time. So, were signing from 40 to 50 billion dollars, and that will  because it was incorrectly reported in the press, shockingly. That will take place. Its already started taking place. Theyre already purchasing a lot of foreign product.  All of the banking regulations and all of the financial services, all of the other things that are included, and there are many other things in phase one that I wont talk about now, but all of that is moving along rapidly. Bob Leitheiser is with us someplace here, and he is in the process of getting it completed. Have a great staff of people working on both sides. Mr. President, its a true pleasure to host you in our nations capital, you and your family and your deeply personal relationship to your country. You love your country so much. Just in speaking to you for a short while, I see how much you love Italy, and I can understand that. Its really an inspiration, a testament to the patriotism and pride of the Italian people, great spirit for Italy. America is grateful to have true friends and allies in the citizens of Italy. We have such a great relationship with the people of Italy.  The United States is, likewise, thankful to be home to more than 16 million Italian Americans. Tonight, here at the White House, well celebrate our deep and abiding friendship with Italy and the really incredible Italian people, the US-Italian alliance is stronger than ever before, and were going to be celebrating that tonight with you, Mr. President. So, I look forward to that very much in a little while. And in the meantime, thank you very much, and wed love to have you say a few words. Thank you. Well, thank you very much Mr. President and the WTO, the World Trade Organization, as everyone knows, we just won seven and a half billion dollars because of unfair trade practices and that will be distributed in a fair way throughout various countries in Europe. And were talking to the president about that as it pertains to Italy. He thought we were a little bit harsh on Italy and we dont want to be harsh on Italy. Well never do that, so well look at that. Very strongly. We will look at that for you. That was one of the requests made and we will be taking a look that. Please. How are you? Now, President Erdogans decision didnt surprise me because hes wanted to do that for a long time. Hes been building up troops on the border with Syria for a long time as you know. Our soldiers are mostly gone from the area. We only had 26, 28 but under 50. We think its probably 28 but under 50 soldiers. And which is a very tiny force. And it didnt surprise me at all. This is, theyd been warring for many years. Its unnatural for us, but its sort of natural for them. They fight and they fight long and they fight hard and theyve been fighting Syria for a long time and on the border, thats the border with Syria. And I say, Why are we protecting Syrias land? Assads not a friend of ours. Why are we protecting their land?  And Syria also has a relationship with the Kurds. Who, by the way, are no angels, okay, who is an angel. There arent too many around, but Syria has a relationship with the Kurds. So theyll come in for their border and theyll fight. They may bring partners in, they could bring Russia in. And I say, welcome to it. Russia went into Afghanistan when it was the Soviet Union and it became Russia, became a much smaller country because of Afghanistan. You can overextend, you could do a lot of things, but frankly, if Russia is going to help in protecting the Kurds, thats a good thing, not a bad thing. But it would be led by Syria and Syria doesnt want Turkey to take its land. I can understand that, but what does that have to do with the United States of America if theyre fighting over Syrias land? Are we supposed to fight a NATO member in order that Syria who is not our friend, keeps their land? I dont think so.  But Syria does have a relationship with the Kurds. The thing thats common is that everybody hates ISIS. Now the PKK, which is a part of the Kurds as you know, is probably worse at Terra and more of a terrorist threat in many ways then ISIS. So its a very, a semi-complicated, not too complicated if youre smart, but its a semi-complicated problem and I think its a problem that we have very nicely under control.  We have two countries wanting their land. We have one country that wants land, perhaps that doesnt belong to them because they want to have a 22 mile strip of, they call it freedom, they call it a lot of things. They want to get terrorists out. You have another country that says you cant have our land and theyre going to have to work that out.  Now with that being said, Vice President Mike Pence is going there. Hell be leaving either late tonight or tomorrow and he was going to leave yesterday, but they have to have certain security done. Hes very important man in our country and hell be leaving with Secretary of State Pompeo. We already have representatives there negotiating with Turkey. We put massive sanctions on Turkey and we have additional sanctions on Turkey and when I ran, I ran on a basis were going to bring our great soldiers back home where they belong. We dont have to fight these endless wars. Were bringing it back home. Thats what I won on. And some people, whether you call it the military industrial complex or ,beyond that theyd like me to stay. One of the problems I have and one of, for instance with the witch hunt, you have people that want me to stay. They want me to fight forever. They do very well fighting. Thats what they want to do. Fight. A lot of companies want to fight because they make their weapons based on fighting, not based on peace and they take care of a lot of people.  I want to bring our soldiers back home. Were not a police force. Were a fighting force. Were the greatest fighting force ever. I spent two and a half trillion dollars over the last almost three years rebuilding our military. When I took it over, it was a mess. It was an absolute mess. It was totally depleted. You know that. A lot of people know that. Honest people all know that. When I was thinking about having to do something, one of our generals came in to see me and he said, Sir, we dont have ammunition. I said, Thats a terrible thing you just said.  He said, We dont have ammunition. Now we have more ammunition than weve ever had. We have more missiles, we have more rockets. Our nuclear has been totally updated and in some cases, new. Hopefully to God we never have to use it, but we have the most powerful nuclear base by far in the world and we have things that we never had before. We have a great modern military, but that doesnt mean were going to waste it. It doesnt mean were going to deplete it like we did before with these crazy endless wars.  So Turkey and Syria will hopefully work it out between themselves. Hopefully ISIS will be guarded. I told, I spoke with, as you know, a wonderful man yesterday, a general from the Kurds. You all know who Im talking about. Some of you have seen the letter that I put out to Erdogan.  I gave it to him, President Erdogan, and some of you have seen it. With the general, I said, Listen, dont open those doors and let them out just to create more havoc so that we come in. Because some of those doors we just opened, lets create some havoc and some political exposure for the president of the United States. We were the ones that contact, we were the ones that got ISIS. Were the ones that took care of it, specifically me because Im the one that gave the order because when I came in under President Obama, ISIS was a disaster all over that area. I was the one that got them. We were the ones that captured them. And I will say this, that Russia, Iran, Syria and to maybe a slightly lesser extent, Turkey, they all hate ISIS as much as we do and its their part of the world.  Were 7,000 miles away. I campaigned on bringing our soldiers back home and thats what Im doing. That includes other places, too, many other places. Statutorily it takes a period of time. Diplomatically, it takes a period of time. But you know, were in many countries, many, many countries. Im embarrassed to tell you how many, I know the exact number, but Im embarrassed to say it because its so foolish.  Were in countries, were protecting countries that dont even like us. They take advantage of us. They dont pay, nothing. You probably saw, some of you wrote and covered the fact that were sending some additional troops to Saudi Arabia. Thats true. And I appreciate the fact that I negotiated for a short period of time, a matter of minutes with Saudi Arabia and theyve agreed to pay for the full cost of all of that deployment and more, much more. A very rich country, they should be paying. And so should many other countries be paying if they want this kind of protection.  Same thing with NATO. Were at 4% and other countries are at 1% and certainly a European country benefits much more than we do with NATO. I mean its there for a reason and perhaps we benefit, but not nearly as much as the European countries. Some people say we dont benefit at all. We put ourselves in harms way. But we do that for Europe, but then they treat us badly on trade, not fair.  So I would say that were in a great position. Were doing what I said. We have two countries that are going to argue over their border. Hopefully theyll work it out. Were going to try and work it out. I think our vice president is a very capable man. Well do well tomorrow. Hes going to meet with President Erdogan. President Erdogan said he wouldnt meet with anybody and he took that back just a little while ago and he said, No, I will.  And I think theyll have a successful meeting. If they dont, the sanctions and tariffs and other things that were doing, we will do and are doing to Turkey will be devastating to Turkeys economy. Ive got Pastor Brunson home. Nobody else could do it. The previous administration tried very hard. They were unable to do it. I did it very quickly and lets see what happens, but I think well be successful. But we got to get out of the endless wars. We have to bring our troops back home. I go to Walter Reed and I give out Purple Hearts. Just did it on Friday. I see the incredible soldiers coming home to Dover, coming home in a coffin on areas that we have nothing to do with. We have nothing to do with and its heartbreaking. I sign letters all the time to parents whose son was shot in different places in the Middle East, mostly.  Its very heartbreaking to see. Very heartbreaking. So Ive said it and its through strength, not through weakness, much harder to do what Im doing. I could be, like all of these others, oh, just leave them there, leave them there. Now I cant do it. Much easier for me much, probably politically better for me just to say, Well leave a lot of people there and well fight. They dont even know what theyre fighting for.  Its much more difficult politically. Its not politically expedient. Its just the opposite. And I have people, even on my side, they want to fight. I say, Why are we fighting? I dont know. They dont even know. So you have Syria and you have Turkey. They are going to argue with that. Maybe theyre going to fight it out, but our men arent going to get killed over it and just one other thing. Theyve been fighting for hundreds of years. Its been going on for hundreds of years. So its a long answer, but I think Ive got much of it out. Thank you very much. Please question? By the way, the digital tax, I have to say is interesting because I did discuss it with another European union member, namely France and France is basically doing the digital tax. And Im no fan of those companies. They were against me. Somebody said, I lost maybe 2 million votes, maybe more, because of Facebook, but these are American companies and whether you like it or not, theyre great big American companies, and Im not happy with the digital tax where France and European union is taxing our companies.  And as you know, we imposed a big tax on French wine because of it. So just to answer your question, Kevin, Im not happy about the fact that they are taxing our companies. Im not a fan of those companies, but if anybodys going to text those companies, it should be the USA. It shouldnt be France and the European Union, who have really taken advantage of the United States. Okay. Thank you very much. Good question. Okay. You can pick somebody, Mr. President. Yes. Well, I dont know the details. I just know that our country is looking into the corruption of the 2016 election. It was a corrupt election, whether its Comey or McCabe or Strache or his lover, Lisa Page, the two great lovers. There was a lot of corruption. Maybe it goes right up to President Obama. I happen to think it does, but you look at Brennan and you look at Clapper. Then youve got some real beauties. I know that theyre looking into the corruption. Obviously the IG reports coming out soon, so well-   get into the corruption. Obviously the IG reports coming out soon, so well find out. I dont know anything about the meeting, but certainly it would be appropriate because the word is, and you read it in the same papers that I do, that they did go to other countries to try and hide what they were doing. Italy may have been one of them. So youll really have to ask Attorney General Barr. Okay. Thank you. John, go ahead. Sure. I didnt give him a green light.  the same thing as you just  When you make a statement like that, its so deceptive. Just the opposite of a green light. First of all, we have virtually no soldiers there. They were mostly gone. Just a tiny little group and they wouldve been in harms way. You have a massive army on the other side of the border. But more importantly, I didnt give him a green light. And if anybody saw the letter, which can be released very easily if youd like, I could certainly release it. But I wrote a letter right after that conversation, very powerful letter. There was never given a green light. Theyve been wanting to do that for years and frankly theyve been fighting for many, many years.  And when you ask a question like that, its very deceptive, John. Its almost as deceptive as you showing all of the bombings taking place in Syria and it turned out that the bombing that you showed on television took place in Kentucky. So Im not even sure that ABC apologized for that, but certainly it was a terrible thing. Im looking at this, I say, Wow, thats pretty bad. And it was in Kentucky. It wasnt in Syria. So I dont know what youre going to do about that, but I think ABC owes an apology. No. Lindsey Graham would like to stay in the Middle East for the next thousand years with thousands of soldiers and fighting other peoples wars. I want to get out of the Middle East. I think Lindseys focused right now when judiciary, like the Democrats, the Do Nothing Democrats as I call them, because theyre doing nothing. Theyre getting nothing done. Theyre not getting USMCA done between Canada, the United States and Mexico. Theyre getting nothing done and I think Lindsey should focus on judiciary. He ought to find out about what happened with Comey, what happened with McCabe, Lisa, what happened with Peter Struck, what happened with President Obama, what happened with Brennan. Thats what Lindsey ought to focus on. Thats what the people of South Carolina want him to focus on. The people of South Carolina dont want us to get into a war with Turkey, a NATO member, or with Syria.  Let them fight their own wars. Theyve been fighting for a thousand years. Let them fight their own wars. The people of South Carolina want to see those troops come home and I won an election based on that. And thats the way it is. Whether its good or bad, thats the way it is. And if you look at this country, Id be willing to bet anything, political instinct, that thats what the country wants. Im not going to get involved in a war between Turkey and Syria, especially when, if you look at the Kurds  And again, I say this with great respect, theyre no angels. If you look at PKK, take a look at PKK. ISIS respects PKK. You know why? Because theyre as tough or tougher than ISIS.  You take a look at a lot of the things having to do  You have to say it. Nobody wants to say it. Were making the Kurds look like theyre angels. Weve paid a lot of money to the Kurds, tremendous amounts of money. Weve given them massive fortunes. And you know what? Its wonderful they fought with us, but we paid a lot for them to fight with us. But just so you understand, we were the ones that captured ISIS. People let some go. They opened a couple of doors to make us look as bad as possible.  We have a situation where Turkey is taking land from Syria. Syria is not happy about it. Let them work it out. We shouldnt be over there. And you should get your accounts correct. And you shouldnt be showing up buildings blowing up in Kentucky and say its Syria because that really is fake news.  Yes, please ask a question. Absolutely. Russia. Russia hates ISIS. Russia hates ISIS as much as the United States does. Iran hates ISIS. I mean, were fighting a war for Russia. Were fighting a war for Iran. You look at Syria, Syria hates ISIS. Were over there killing ISIS and were killing  Dont forget, were 7,000 miles away. So were killing ISIS. Were 7,000 miles away. Russias much closer. Iran is right there. Turkey is right there. They all hate ISIS. Turkey a little bit less so. But the others very much. Russia had a plane blown up by ISIS. Russia wants nothing to do with ISIS. Russias tough. They can kill ISIS just as well and they happen to be in their neighborhood.  And all Im saying is this, Im not going to lose potentially thousands and tens of thousands of American soldiers fighting a war between Turkey and Syria. Syria is not our friend. Assad is not our friend. Thats the way it goes. Please ask a question . 28. They say it was 28. We thought it was 50, but it was about 28, 26 to 28 troops. And all accounted for, nobody injured. Listen, all accounted for. Nobody injured, nobody missing. Its really nice. You know whats happened? No American soldiers have been killed. Thats whats happened. And other people will go in and very easy to recapture those people that probably the Kurds let go to make a little bit stronger political impact. And thats okay. I fully understand it. But thats the way it goes. Were bringing our soldiers back home and weve done a great job.  We were supposed to be in Syria for one month. That was 10 years ago, and weve been a police force. Its time to bring our soldiers back home. Thats the way it is. Weve had no soldiers injured or hurt. Thats because Im president and were the boss. Just remember that. We have the most powerful military in the world by far. Please. Well, Ill answer first. Yes, I am satisfied. Theyve been very accommodating. They werent at the beginning and they have been since then. And I want to just thank the Italian government and your Prime Minister actually in addition to the President. But as you know, I had long conversations with my friend and they were very nice. So I am very satisfied and we just discussed the same conversation with the President. Very satisfied. Thank you. Well, actually the tariffs situation is interesting because we just, its like I said with China and turned out to be true. We cannot lose a war of tariffs because the imbalance is so great between the United States, and in this case, the European Union, also true with China. That turned out to be right. Weve collected tens of billions of dollars of tariffs. Weve given some to the farmers to make them even. And now the farmers are going to have a bigger contract than they ever thought possible. They wont be able to produce even that much, but I think they will because of their incredible ingenious. As I say jokingly, but probably not jokingly, theyll just have to buy larger tractors, which is probably what theyre doing right now. But the farmers come out so well. But in a war of tariffs with the European Union, the trade imbalance is so great that we cant lose that because they do much more business than we do. And thats unfortunate. But the word reciprocity is probably my favorite word. Of all of these words, all of the semi-complicated, complicated, to me not complicated at all things that were doing, its got to be reciprocal. And its not. The European Unions taken tremendous advantage of the United States. Many of us come through one way or the other through the European Union. Thats the good news. The bad news is theyve been very smart. Theyve been very smart. Jean-Claude has been brilliant. Now hes leaving, but hes been brilliant at really helping them and not helping us.  And so thats changing now, but we cant lose that particular war of tariffs because the trade imbalance is tremendous. Its tremendous. And if you look at what they dont have, the barriers that they put up, they put up tremendous barriers to our doing business in Europe. Tremendous barriers, both from a monetary standpoint and what they call non-monetary barriers.  Its a very tough thing. Our farm products, very hard to get them in. Our cars, very hard to get them in. And yet they send Mercedes, they send BMW, they send Volkswagen, Renault in the case of France. So its a very tough situation for us for many years, but now its a very tough situation for them because I can remedy the situation very easily. And there really is not any financial counter attack. Hopefully I dont have to do that. With all of that being said, we are talking. Were talking with some new people in Europe and I hope its going to be successful. That way we dont have to talk about it or worry about it because our relationship should be a great one. But we have to be treated fairly on NATO and we have to be treated fairly on trade with the European Union."
"Okay. Thank you very much. We have a cabinet meeting? Well have a few questions after grace and if you would Ben, please do the honors. Thank you Ben, that was a great job, appreciate it. The economy is doing fantastically well. Its getting very close to another record. Weve had many records since we won office. Were getting very close to another record. I dont know if anybody saw the household median income for eight years of President Bush, it rose $400. For eight years of President Obama, it rose $ 975 and or two and a half years of President Trump, they have it down as two and a half years, it rose $5,000 not including $2,000 for taxes. So it rose, lets say 7,000. So in two and a half years, were up 7,000 compared to 1,000, compared to 400 and thats for eight years and eight years. Thats a number that just came out. But thats a number that I dont know how there could any dispute or any Ive never heard of a number like that. Meaning the economy is doing fantastically well.  We need for our farmers, our manufacturers, for frankly, unions and non-unions, we need USMCA to be voted on. If its voted on, itll pass. Its up to Nancy Pelosi to put it up. If she puts it up, its going to pass. Its going to to be very bipartisan. Its something thats very much needed and will be hundreds of thousands of jobs. Mexico and Canada have approved it. Its done. They are waiting for our approval and we cant seem to get the votes. I call them the do nothing, Democrats. I mean that, theyve done nothing, but this is something they can do very easily. Well give them bipartisan approvals and credits, all the credits they want, but they have to be able to do it.  So the economy is doing fantastically well. We want to vote on USMCA. We have other trade deals that weve done. Weve done South Korea, which is a fantastic deal for us. It turned out even better than we thought. South Korea was a terrible deal. The person in charge of that particular deal, Hillary Clinton if youve heard of her? Shes the one thats accusing everybody of being a Russian agent. Anybody that is opposed to her is a Russian agent. So thats a scam that was pretty much put down.  Tulsi, I dont know Tulsi, but shes not a Russian agent. I dont know Jill Stein, I know she likes environment. I dont think she likes Russians. If she does like them, I know shes not a asset. She called her an asset of Russia. These people are sick, theres something wrong with them. I think that Tulsi Gabbard probably got helped quite a bit by . I think we were helped, because it shows for two and a half years we end up winning. I had to go through two and a half years, if she would have done this earlier, people wouldve realized what a scam it is. Everybodys a Russian or an Russian agent or an Russian asset.  The economy again is at a level that its never been. We are doing, whether its household income, whether its almost any chart, and I think maybe the best of all is unemployment. Unemployment has reached historic lows, African American, Asian American, Hispanic American reached numbers that nobody ever thought would be possible. Have the lowest ever in history.  So if youre black, if youre Hispanic, if youre Asian, anybody, African American, Hispanic American, Asian, the lowest in history. For women, the lowest in 71 years, the best. When I say lowest, Im talking about the best, both the best unemployment numbers and the best employment numbers. Either way you want to cut it, you can say them both, because its best in both. As far as employment is concerned, we have the most people working today than ever before in the history of our country. Weve never had this close to 160 million people. So its some incredible things are happening.  Syria, we will be giving a much fuller report, Mike Pompeo, Secretary of Defense, Esper and the different people that are very much involved, Mike Pence, Vice President. Were having very good news coming out. The ceasefires holding, the Kurds are moving out to safer areas beyond the safe zone as we call it. Having the safe zone is not a bad thing. Its a good thing and plenty of Turks have been killed because of conflict on their border. So you have to look at it both ways. But the ceasefires absolutely holding. Theres some skirmishes, but very little, relatively speaking. Of course, if you watched the fake news, its pretty wild. Its really holding.  Ive watched these pundits that had been working on this thing for 20 years. Theyve been working on the Middle East for 20 years. They dont know what theyre doing and theyre telling me what to do. They say, What did Trump get out of it? What did he get out of it? Ill tell you what I get out of it. We wont be fighting and well bring our soldiers back home. They were supposed to be there for 30 days and theyd been there now for 10 years, in Syria, 10 years. Theyre supposed to go in, do a quick hit on ISIS and come out.  Now as far as ISIS is concerned, when I took over November, 2016, ISIS was all over the place. Im the one, meaning it was me and this administration working with others, including the Kurds that captured all of these people that youre talking about right now. With President Obama it was a mess and I was told and you were told and everybody told it would be years before you ever did what I did in about a month and a half after I started. I went over to Iraq. I met with our generals and then we figured out a plan and it was done within a month and a half. So Im the one that did the capturing. Im the one that knows more about it than you people or the fake pundits. I have to smile to myself. I was telling a couple of people, Im watching these people that Ive been watching for 20 years, Ive been watching the same faces. Theyre just a little bit older and a little bit grayer. Ive been watching them for 20 years saying about the Middle East and theyve been wrong on everything theyve ever said.  Now all of a sudden he was starting to say, you know what Trump is doing is great and we have tremendous, tremendous power because since the election of 2016, November, since that beautiful day, our countrys picked up in value, trillions and trillions of dollars of worth, trillions and trillions of dollars. Numbers that nobody would believe, numbers if I wouldve said it on the campaign trail, I wouldve been excoriated by the fake media, excoriated. The numbers are far greater than anything that even I predicted. You hear that with the household median income? $400 for eight years, $975 for eight years. $7,000 for two and a half years up. Nobodys ever seen numbers.  Larry Kudlow is going to speak in a minute and hes going to tell you thats one of the greatest strengths of our country. By the way, other areas and countries are doing poorly. Europe is doing very poorly. Asia is doing very poorly. China is doing very poorly, worst year theyve had in 57 years, I wonder why. I wonder why. Im sure you cant figure it out. Were doing great. Were taking in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs from China and theyre  the tariffs because they devalued their currency and theyre pouring money into their economy because they dont want to lose the jobs. But they are loosing the jobs, theyre having a terrible year, worst than 57 years they say. If they say that it means its worse and they announced that they have the worst numbers theyve had in 20 years, they announced six, I dont think its six. I think its probably minus something. Could very well be minus, could very well be in negative territory.  But were doing great. By the way, the deal with China is coming along very well. They want to make a deal because they have to make a deal, I think. they have to make a deal because their supply chain is going down the tubes, their supply chain is broken like youve never seen anything broken before. Its broken. So our soldiers who are in Syria, theyre moving out very nicely. ISIS is being held by the Kurds and I have an absolute commitment from Turkey that theyre watching them just in case. So we have a double, we have the Kurds are watching them. As you know, most of the ISIS fighters that we captured, we, we, not Obama, we, we captured them. Me, our country captured them, working with others, including the Kurds and we helped them. Dont forget, we helped the Kurds. Everyone said the Kurds helped us, thats true. We help the Kurds. Theyre no angels, but we helped the Kurds and we never gave the Kurds a commitment that wed stay for the next 400 years to protect them. Theyve been fighting with the Turks for 300 years that people know of and nobody ever committed, Gee, if you do this, were going to that, were going to stay with your forever. Nobody every said that.  But when I watch these fondants that that always are trying to take a shot. They say, What are we getting out of it? You know what were getting out of it, were bringing ourselves back home, thats a big thing. Its going to probably work, but if it doesnt work, youre going to have people fighting like theyve been fighting for 300 years. Its very simple. Its really very simple, but were going to bring our soldiers back back home.  So far there hasnt been one drop of blood shed during this whole period by an American soldier. Nobody was killed. Nobody cut their finger. Its been nothing. Theyre leaving rather, I think, not expeditiously, rather intelligently, just leaving, leaving certain areas, leaving. Weve secured the oil. If you remember, I didnt want to go into Iraq. I was a civilian so I had no power over it, but I always was speaking against going into Iraq. It was not a great decision, but I always say if youre going in, keep the oil. Same thing here, keep the oil, we want to keep the oil. Well work something out with the Kurds so that they have some money, They have some cashflow. Maybe we get one of our big oil companies to go in and do it properly, but theyll have some cashflow which they basically dont have right now. Everybodys fighting. Its not a big oil area, but everybodys fighting for whatever there is. So we have a lot of good things going over there and theyre going very well.  As far as the continuation of the witch hunt, we beat the Russian deal. We beat the Muller deal. Now I find out, as I said before, that theyre trying to make other people into Russian agents, Russian assets, it has no credibility. Now they have what should be extremely easy to beat, because they have a perfect phone call. I made a perfect call, not a good call, perfect call. In fact, a friend of mine whos a great lawyer said, Did you know this would be the subject of all of this scrutiny? Because the way you expressed yourself, this is like a perfect call. You must have known this was going to happen. No I didnt. Thats just the way I talked to the President of Ukraine, who by the way said there was no pressure. There was no blackmail, there was no anything.  Congressman Hurd, I have to tell you yesterday, it was great, it was great, what he said, I gained a lot of respect for him very quickly because he said, You know with all of this going on, I havent heard one Ukrainian say there was pressure. I havent heard one Ukrainian, not one, say that there was pressure of any kind. There havent even been reports of it to our people. Nobodys even said it. The reason you havent heard it, because there is no pressure,. The conversation I had was perfect. What happened is I released the conversation and that through shifty Schiff off. Hes a corrupt politician.  Schiff is a corrupt politician, that threw him off because he made up a lie. He made up what I said in my conversation and it went before the United States Congress and he said a made up story. It was fabricated. He totally fabricated it. They say hes a screenwriter. Well, this was screen-writ. It was a fabricated story.  So he made up a lie and I released, they never thought that Id do this. I released a transcription done by stenographers of the exact conversation I had and now the game was up. The other thing is the whistleblower and the other whistleblower and the informer, all these people, they seem to have disappeared. You know why they disappeared? Because they talked about another conversation, a conversation that I never had. They made up a conversation. Now if you look at the whistleblower report and you look at the actual transcribed conversation, the actual conversation that I had and you couple that with the President saying that that was a perfectly fine conversation. I dont even know. He doesnt even know what theyre doing. He didnt even know about the money not being paid. Okay? I think that came out somewhere that the money He didnt know that. Then you also have his foreign minister saying, No, its a very good conversation. There was no anything asked there. There was no pressure whatsoever, so this is a phony investigation.  I watched a couple of people on television today talking about it. They were talking about what a phony deal it is, what a phony investigation it is, and the Republicans have to get tougher and fight. We have some that are great fighters, but they have to get tougher and fight because the Democrats are trying to hurt the Republican party for the election, which is coming up, where were doing very well. Where I had a record crowd, the history of the arena its the biggest crowd theyve ever had and we had 20,000 people outside at least.  Were doing great in the election, you saw what happened in North Carolina. We picked up two seats that people didnt think we were going to pick up, that was two weeks ago. Last week, a governor that people thought was okay, went down and now hes got a big election. He was under 50%, nobody thought that was going to happen. Were doing very well. But a lot of the stories that are made up between a guy like shifty Schiff whos a phony guy, corrupt politician, the media buys it because unfortunately the media is corrupt also, much of the media, so much of it. Such a big percentage of it. Its such a shame. Some great reporters, some great journalists, but some really bad people.  So thats the story. The economys good. Were doing well with getting out finally after 10 years, again 30 days to 10 years and were getting out. Nobody, none of our people are injured. Its very smooth thus far and I think that youre going to see something thats going to be good. Remember this, if Turkey misbehaves, I dont think they will, but we have a power that nobody thought we had, to the extent, its called sanctions. Its called tariffs. Well tariff the hell out of their product coming here. They send tremendous amounts of steel to the United States and other things. We will tariff them and we will sanction them, but I dont want to use that as a threat, because Mike Pence and our Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, they went out and they negotiated a very good five day cease fire. Im sure if we needed a little extension that would be happening. But our power is our power of economics, its a great power.  Weve rebuilt the military since November of 2016. Our military was totally depleted from being in stupid situations like this for so many years. Our military was depleted to a level that we had very little ammunition, I was actually told we had no ammunition. Now we have more ammunition than weve ever had. Our military is as strong or stronger than its ever been. Probably stronger than ever. In a few short months as the equipment pours in from the money weve spent, two and a half trillion dollars, it will be in a level that its never even come close to. Its a big difference. All made in the USA, all made in the USA. So were doing very well. If anybody has any questions, please feel free. Excuse me? We dont think its going to be necessary. I dont want to leave troops there. Its very dangerous there. We had 28 troops, as it turned out, people said 50, it was 28 and you had an army on both sides of those troops. Those troops would have been wiped out. I dont think its necessary, other than that we secure the oil, its in a little different section, but we secured the oil.  The other region where weve been asked by Israel and Jordan to leave a small number of troops is a totally different section of Syria, near Jordan and close to Israel. Thats a totally different section. Thats a totally different mindset. So we have a small group there and weve secured the oil. Other than that, theres no reason for it in our opinion. Again, the Kurds are going to be watching were working with the Kurds, we have a good relationship with the Kurds, but we never agreed to protect the Kurds.  We fought with them for three and a half to four years. We never agreed to protect the Kurds for the rest of their lives. Remember this, when Iraq was fighting the Kurds, everybody thought we were going to fight with the Kurds. I said, well, its a little strange that were fighting with the Kurds when we just spent $4 trillion on Iraq and now were going to be fighting Iraq. So what I did is I said, were not going to take a position. Let them fight themselves. I thought the Kurds would do very well.  Everyone said, oh, the Kurds will do very well. Well, Iraq moved in and the Kurds left. They didnt fight because they didnt have us to fight with. A lot of people are good when they fight them with us. When you have $10 millions worth of airplanes shooting 10 miles in front of your line, its much easier to fight.  But with that, they were a good help, but we were a great help to them too. They were fighting ISIS, they hated ISIS, so they were fighting ISIS but we never agreed wheres an agreement that said we have to stay in the Middle East for the rest of humanity, for the rest of civilization to protect the Kurds. It never said that. We have protected them, weve taken very good care of them and I hope theyre going to watch over ISIS because thats, again, most of its not in the safe zone as we call it. Some places call, demilitarized zone, in the old days would call areas like this, a demilitarized zone.  Our relationship with the Kurds is good and theyre going to be safe and I will say this, if shooting didnt start for a couple of days, I dont think the Kurds would have moved. I dont think frankly you would have been able to make a very easy deal with Turkey. I think when it started for a few days, it was so nasty, that when we went to Turkey and when we went to the Kurds, they agreed to do things that they never would have done before the shooting started. If they didnt go through two and a half days of hell, I dont think they wouldve done it. I think you couldnt have made a deal.  People have been trying to make this deal for years, but were close to making it. Well see what happens. Again, theyve been fighting for 300 years that we know of, 300 years. So why should we put our soldiers in the midst of two large groups, hundreds of thousands potentially of people that are fighting? I dont think so. I dont think so. Yes? Well I think the Democrats fight dirty. I think the Democrats are lousy politicians with lousy policy. They want open borders. They dont care about crime. They want sanctuary cities. They dont care about drugs. They dont care about almost anything. They dont care about USMCA. How about that? I think theyre lousy politicians, but two things they have, theyre vicious and they stick together. They dont have Mitt Romney in their midst. They dont have people like that. They stick together. You never see them break off. You never see somebody go out and thats why I respected so much what I watched with Will Hurd today, because he was one of the few that didnt seem to be there, and yet he made a statement. He said, Well, I havent seen any complaints whatsoever from the Ukrainians. If the Ukrainians didnt complain and they didnt tell any of our ambassadors.  This thing is all about a letter that was perfect. You never hear the letter anymore. It was all about whistleblowers. You never hear what happened to the whistleblowers? Theyre gone, because theyve been discredited. What happened to the informant and wheres the IG? Why didnt IG read the letter, read the transcript? He could have gotten that, I guess. I assume, I would have declassified it for him, if I had to do that.  Why didnt he read this and then see that the whistleblowers account was totally different than the letter. Then he would have said, Oh theres no problem here. The whistleblower gave a false account. Now you have to say, well, do we have to protect somebody that gave a false account? These whistleblowers, they have them like theyre angels. Okay? So do we have to protect somebody that gave a totally false account of my conversation? I dont know. You tell me. Do we have to protect the informant? Now-  I dont know. You tell me. Do we have to protect the informant? Now I happen to think that probably wasnt an informant. You know the informant went to the whistleblower, the whistleblower had second and third hand information. You remember that. It was a big problem, but the information was wrong. So, was there actually informant, maybe the informant was Schiff. It could be shifty Schiff. In my opinion, its possibly Schiff. Why didnt Schiff say that he and his staff or his staff or a whole group? Why didnt he say that he met with the whistleblower. He knew all about the whistleblower. Why didnt he say. Hes a crooked politician? Very bad for our country.  This whole thing is very bad for our country. In the midst of that, Im trying to get out of wars, and we may have to get into wars too. Okay. We may have to get in wars. Were better prepared than weve ever been. If Iran does something, therell be hit like theyve never been hit before. I mean, we have things that were looking at, but can you imagine? I have to fight off these low lives, at the same time Im negotiating these very important things. That should have been done during Obama and Bush and even before that. All right. So, thats where we are right now.  Go ahead please. Well, they got to to be sent initially to different parts and get prepared that ultimately were bringing them home. Were bringing our troops back home. I got elected on bringing our soldiers back home. Now its not very popular within the beltway, because you know Lockheed doesnt like it, and these great military companies dont like it. Its not very popular. And outside the beltway, my largest cheer in Dallas, I have 25,000 people close in that arena. A record crowd. I had so many people outside of the arena. Thousands. My largest cheer that night was two things, Were building the wall. Thats number one, and number two and probably tied for number one was, Were bringing our soldiers back home. That was our largest cheer in Dallas. Great place, great state, Texas, tough state. Theyre tough. When I said were bringing our soldiers back home, the place went crazy. But within the beltway, you know, people dont like it.  Its much tougher for me, be much easier for me to let our soldiers be there and let them continue to die. I go out to Dover and I have to, I meet parents. Its not a pleasant thing. Its the most unpleasant thing I do. Most unpleasant than I do. I see that big cargo plane open and I see those coffins get rolled off. Or when I go over to Walter Reed Hospital where the doctors are incredible, by the way, saving people that could have never been saved even five years ago, you know that. But those people are horribly wounded, horribly, horribly wounded. Wounded warriors.  Its the toughest thing I do. Toughest thing is sending letters. I send many letters home to parents and I speak to parents, but Ive sent many letters home to parents, their son or daughter has been killed over in the Middle East. For what? For what? There are times to fight, and there are times not to fight. There are times to be smart. We have tremendous economic power, and were using our economic power. Much more powerful in certain ways than playing with guns, and much better for our country, and much better for everybody, and actually much better for humanity. Okay. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it.   Doral very simple situation. I own a property in Florida. I was going to do it at no cost, or give it free. If I got a rule entrance as a question as to whether or not youre allowed to give it, because its like a contribution to a country would have to get a ruling, but I would have given it for nothing. Its a lot of money. I wouldve given away. Like I give away my salary, I give away my salary. Its I guess close to $450,000. I give it away. Nobody ever said he gives away a salary. Now it comes up because of this, but I give away my presidential salary. They say that no other president has done it. Im surprised to be honest with you. They actually say that George Washington may have been the only other president who did, but see whether or not Obama gave up his salary.  See whether or not all of the other of your favorites give up their salary. The answer is no. They say its the only one. They think George Washington did, but that they say no other. So, I give up Its a lot of money for $450,000, close to, and I give that up. So, I have a place thats in the best location. Im very good at real estate. Very, very good. Very much better than you even understand. When you see my financials, which Ill give it the right time. Youll say, Man, he does much better than we even thought. This guy knows right here. Mnuchin, because he was in the private sector. He knows very much what I have. He would tell you. Someday, maybe hell tell you. But Im very good at real estate. Theres Miami, this facility, everybody wouldve had their own building. Everybody in the G7 would have had their own building.  It was so good. Florida loved it. They love economic development. Its not because Its a beautiful place. Its new. Its been totally rebuilt. Its new. Everythings new. Its got massive meeting rooms, unlimited for security, because its on, you know, hundreds of acres. Best location. Right next to the airport. Miami International, one of the biggest airports in the world. Some people say its the biggest, but one of the biggest airports in the world. Its only minutes away, and it wouldve been great. But the Democrats went crazy. Even though I wouldve done it free. Saved the country, a lot of money. Then they say, Oh, but youll get promotion. Who cares? You dont think I get enough promotion? I get more from promotion than any human being thats ever lived. I think I get, I think I would have that I think I can say that fairly safely. I think I get more promotion than any human being thats ever lived.  Some good, some bad. The people that like me only give me only good, the people that dont like me, give me only bad. But thats the way life is. I dont need promotion. I dont need promotion. Okay. But I was willing to do this for free and they would had, it would have been the greatest G7 ever. And I would have said to my family, because they run my business now, I dont run my business. I actually put all this stuff in trusts. They run my, and I didnt have to do that, but under no obligation to do it, you know, I dont know if you know what, George Washington, he ran his business simultaneously while he was president. Many other presidents, there werent too many really rich presidents, but there were a few. They ran their business. Hey, Obama made a deal for a book.  Is that running a business? Im sure he didnt even discuss it while he was precedent. Yeah. Heres a deal with Netflix. When did they start talking about that? Thats only, you know, a couple of examples, but other presidents, if you look, other presidents were wealthy. Not huge wealth. George Washington was actually considered a very, very rich man at the time. But they ran their businesses. George Washington, they say had two desks. He had a presidential desk and a business desk. I dont think you people with this phony Emoluments Clause. And by the way, I would say that its cost me anywhere from 2 to $5 billion to be president. And thats okay. Between what I lose, and what I could have made. I would have made a fortune if I just ran my business. I was doing it really well. I have a great business, and the best properties, but between when I was And you know some properties, Dorals an example. Doral were setting records when I bought it, because I owned it for a period of time. Setting records.  It was going to, there was nothing I was making a fortune. And then what happened? I announced Im going to run for office, right? And all of a sudden I say, Were going to build a wall. Were going to have borders. Weve got to have this, weve got to have that. All of a sudden people, some people didnt like it. They thought the rhetoric was too tough. And it went from doing great to doing fine. It does very nicely now. Its actually coming back I understand very strongly.  But Doral was setting records, that I knew this would happen. Most of the stuff that I have, because now instead of having 100% of the market that loves you, and they love your brand, and its luxury, and its great, now you have 50% of the market thats called politics. I fully understood that. So, its cost me between 2 billion and $5 billion, and if I had it to do again, I do it in an instant, because who cares? If you can afford it what difference does it make? If I had this to do again, because Im making a big difference for the country. The country is stronger now than its been in many years, maybe ever.  Our militarys rebuilt. Our economy is hitting records. As I said, Best unemployment numbers, best employment numbers. Were strong. Were bringing our soldiers back home from the endless wars. Were doing great. So, whether I lost $2 billion, $5 billion, more or less, doesnt make any difference to me. I dont care. If youre rich, it doesnt matter. Im doing this for the country. Im doing it for the people that show up. I havent had an empty seat at a rally. I always say, Wheres the rally? Its in a certain place. Okay, just get the biggest arena. I go into these massive basketball arena, like in Dallas where the Mavericks play, and fill it up, and set a record.  Ive set a record almost every place Ive been, because we just need a little small stage. We dont need basketball courts, ice hockey courts, and I take less than musicians, because they have bands. I dont have band. Set the world record for somebody without a guitar. Okay. I dont have bands. Right? So, thats the story, and you know those people are the poll, and Ive had great polls. Ive had my best polls now. I think its because people think that its terrible what theyre doing. Pelosi, shifty Schiff, Schumer. These people are trying to destroy the country. Its a very bad thing what theyre doing. The President of the United States should be allowed to run the country, not have to focus on this kind of crap. While at the same time doing a great job when Syria and Turkey and all of the other things that we doing.  North Korea. Okay. Maybe someday, but Ill tell you what, if somebody else became president with that same mindset that they had, youd write down, we had a big war with North Korea. You dont hear too much about it. Could happen. Could happen. I dont know. I always say who knows. Its deals. Who knows? But in the meantime, North Korea is, I liked Kim. He likes me. We get along. I respect him. He respects me. You could end up in a war. President Obama told me that. He said, The biggest problem, I dont know how to solve it. He told me, He doesnt know how to solve it. I said, Did you ever call him? No. Actually he tried, 11 times, but the man on the other side, the gentleman or the other side did not take his calls. Okay. Lack of respect, but he takes my call. Thank you very much everybody. Well look at other locations. I dont think it will be as exciting. I dont think it will be as good. Itll cost the country a fortune, because its very expensive. I know France had a budget of many, many millions of dollars. They just did it. They did a great job by the way, but France had a budget of many, many millions of dollars. Its going to cost, you know, fortune for the country. I was willing to do it for free, but if people didnt like that, they thought I may get some promotional value. I need promotional value so badly, but I dont need promotional. Go ahead. Whatd you say? What else Steve? Nope.  You mentioned the word impeach. Well, I think they want to, any Democrat wants to, because theyre not going to beat me in the election. So, of course they want to impeach. Why wouldnt they want to impeach me? Its so illegitimate, but it cannot be the way the founders, our great founders meant this to be. But I see this guy, Congressman Al Green say,  We have to impeach him. Otherwise hes going to win the election. Whats that all about? But thats exactly what theyre saying, We have to impeach him, because otherwise hes going to win. Im going to win the election. Look, I have the strongest economy ever. Its the economy stupid, right? I have the strongest economy in the history of our country. Okay. Were setting records over 100 times. I think its like 118 but over 100 times. Weve had the highest stock market in history, since November 8th. Over 100 times. Now, by the way, the day I got elected the following day from there until January 20th the market went through the roof.  You know why it went through the roof? Because they got rid of Obama, and they got rid of Clinton, and if anybody else, if any of these people that have been watching on this stage got elected, your 401ks would be down the tubes. Theyd go down, not 20% or 30% theyd go down 70, 90, 80. Itd destroy this country. Youd destroy the country. So, I think they want to impeach me, because its the only way theyre going to win. Theyve got nothing. All they have is a phone call, that was perfect. All they have is a whistleblower whos disappeared. Where is he? Hes gone. Then they have a second whistleblower. The second whistle blowers got, Oh, its going be  Where is he? He disappeared. Then they have an informant. Oh, the informant is  Where is he? Theyre interviewing ambassadors who Ive never heard of. I dont know who these people are.  I never heard of them, and I have great respect for some of them. One of them said just recently, a very, very highly respected man. Im not going to get into their names, but a Said, No, no. We were very, very bothered by Joe Biden, and his son. Back during the Obama administration. He said, We were very  Hes supposed to be their witness. Dont forget many of these people were put there during Obama, during Clinton, during the never-Trump or Bush era. You know, you had a never-Trump or Bush. You have heard of those. Those people might be worse than the Democrats.  The never-Trumpers. The good news is theyre dying off fast. Theyre on artificial respiration I think, but no, impeachment they want to impeach, and they want to do it as quick as possible, and thats pretty much the story. Okay. I think I have great Republican support. No, I dont think so. No, you dont. I have to do what I have to do. Ill tell you what. I want to bring our soldiers back home. If people want to leave them there. Ill take that every day. All I know, you were at Dallas. All I know is the place went crazy when I said Were bringing our soldiers back home. Within this little area. Its a very unique area. They may feel that, but I have to do what I got elected on, and I have to do what I think is right now.  Now, if I got elected on something and think I was wrong, Id second guess myself. Id change. But they want our soldiers back home, and I think we can do as well or better frankly, let them, theyve got to, theyve got to keep going at each other. Its artificial to have these soldiers walking up, and down between two big countries. And by the way, Ive just informed Larry Kudlow is going to say a few remarks if you want Would you like to stay for Larrys remarks? Because hes a great, great remark maker. Larry, after that whole thing, Larry, get up and go get it. Im sure itll be great. Let them know how were doing Larry. Were doing poorly, let them know, but I dont think thats going to happen. Maybe ever Larry, right? Maybe ever. You check it. I dont think its ever been done. Theyre predicting whose going to win the election Larry. Is that what youre saying? Almost never happens. Right. Its true. Weve cut regulations more than any administration in history. And thats in two and a half years. So, in two and a half years weve cut more regulation than any administration in the history of our country, and theyve been for eight years, and in one case for more than that. So, thats been pretty good. Thank you very much Larry. That was very good. And Russ Vought. Russ if you could talk about- Okay, great. I think Ill, maybe start with you, Andrew, if you could please. Thank you very much, and I know youre working on the small refineries, getting that straightened away so that its going to be terrific for small refineries. Theyve been hurt for a long time. We gave them waivers for this year, and thats helped them a lot. Id like for you to work on that, make sure the small refineries are happy. And for the farmers, ethanol now has been full approved. We spoke with Joni Ernst, we spoke with, and very importantly, we spoke with Chuck Grassley. The ethanol, the whole situation with ethanol that has been going on for so long, for so many years, we have that now where its finished, approved, done, and were getting things ready to sign. Perhaps, Senator, you could just talk about ethanol for our farmers for a couple of minutes, please. They seem to be very happy. They deserve to be happy, theyve gone through a lot. They were targeted by China, as you know. We took some of the money out of the tariffs, $16 billion, and $12 billion for the two last years, and we gave it back to the farmers. They dont even want it, they just want a level playing field, but they were targeted unfairly by China.  Now, China is buying tremendous amounts of product, agricultural product. Theyve started, maybe Bob Lighthizer could give us just a little update. I noticed that today, China set down a statement that the deal is coming along very well, that they expect to have a deal. Do you want to talk about China for a couple of seconds, Bob? One real example is the farmers. They were told, and I was told if we can get $20 billion a year purchased, the biggest theyve ever done is $16, is what Ive heard and what theyve said. If we can get $20 billion a year from China, if China purchases $20 billion a year of agricultural product, that will be a great thing. My people had $20 billion done, and I said, I want more.  They said, The farmers cant handle it.  I said, Tell them to buy larger tractors. Its very simple. Theyll buy more land, and theyll buy larger tractors, but I want more. I said, We want $60 billion, to $70 billion, and we agreed to $40 to $50 billion. They wanted $20 billion, and I got $40 to $50 billion, and theyve already started buying. Thats just the way it goes. I want to thank China for that. And they have started the buying while were papering the deal, and thats going well. We hope to sign it, probably in Chile when we have a summit in Chile, or wherever that may be. Well be able to, we think, sign a completed document with China on phase one. And then we start working on phase two.  Actually, things in phase two are easier than phase one. But its so big, and an example of the agricultural products, its so big that we thought doing phases would be good. But actually, the things in the second phase are, in many ways, a lot easier than the things in the first phase. Well see how that goes. I think they could. I want the farmers to come tell me, Sir, we cant produce that much. But the farmers dont know that language, right? We took it from $20, to potentially $50 billion. Itll be more agricultural product will be bought than any time in our history by far. Thats on top of the Japan deal that we just made, where Japan is buying a tremendous amount of Ag and other things from our country, and our farmers. Our farmers have been great. They have never wavered. They said,  The President is doing the right thing. We are sticking with the President. I didnt see any, they looked, some of the networks, the looked, they looked all over for somebody that could speak negatively about the President, and those farmers they stuck. They said, Nope, hes doing the right thing. It may be hurting us, but hes doing the right thing.  And I think in many ways the farmer, maybe, is going to be the biggest beneficiary of what were doing, certainly one of them. I think our country is going to be the biggest beneficiary. Secretary, could I ask you to talk a little bit about drug pricing, because weve cut it down a lot. We had the first year ever where prices actually went down. And if we had Democrat support we could get them way down, but we dont have a lot of Democrat support. If you could talk about it, please. Ive read for years that other countries have much lower drug prices than we do. I said to a couple of governors, including Ron DeSantis of Florida, who is very much into it, Go to Canada, where the prices are 50%. Buy it from Canada. Well give you the approval. And were working on those final approvals now. Canada buy, because of arcane rules, and because of protecting the middle men, and protecting drug companies, frankly, other countries have prices that are much, much lower, more than 50% in some cases. Canadas pricing is much lower.  I told Ron DeSantis, I told other governors, Go to Canada, go to other countries, buy them. Same product, same exact manufacturer, many times, manufactured in the same plant, and a pill will cost you 50% less than it does in the United States. That just shows you how bad people have run our country. Were going to get tremendous price cuts on drugs. Were in the process, and Id like you to speed that up, too, if you could. Really speed it up because Canada is loving to sell it. You can buy the exact same product for 50%. That means people are going to get a 50% reduction in drug prices.  In some cases substantially more. Its hard to believe how this country was taken advantage of by, frankly, everybody in every different way. Thank you. Id like to ask Gene Scalia to maybe speak. Gene is a highly respected gentleman, one of the best lawyers in the country focused on labor law. Hes not Department of Labor Secretary. Its great to have you at our first meeting. Thank you, your first meeting, Im very proud of you. He passed with a massive majority. What was the number? Thats considered a massive  probably the largest . Yeah we should do it. Thats a big thing on 401K that youre doing. Thats very important, thank you. Kellyanne, you wanted to say about . Those are really incredible numbers, folks. I mean, youre not going to report them, were just wasting our time. Those are great numbers. Thank you very much, Kellyanne. Take Back Day is a big deal. Theyve been talking about it for a long time, nobodys every done it. But it is big. Alex wanted to mention just one additional thing? Something that some people think could be as big or bigger than healthcare is transparency. Were doing transparency. Do you want to give just a one minute update on that transparency, and pricing, and transparency on the quality of your dollar? And just to end as our trade deals start kicking in, these trade deals are incredible. Whether its North Korea, South Korea North Koreas going to be probably somethings going to be happening with North Korea, too, theres some really interesting information on North Korea. A lot of things are going on, and its going to be a major rebuild at a certain point. South Korea is getting much more involved with us than we ever thought in terms of the economy, and in terms of the trade deal. A lot of money is being spent over there, theyre going to be doing it through us. Theyve been doing tremendous purchases.  We had a tremendous deficit with them, and were slowly eating away at these deficits. We had deficits with everybody. But as the trade deals start kicking in with China, especially phase one with the farmers, and with the banks, the banking system, financial services. As they start kicking in youre going to see a tremendous difference in the economy. The economy is already, by far, number one. If I werent elected, by right now China would be the largest economy in the world. It was expected, it was said by many people that China would right now. They were expecting around the second year of this term.  Not only arent they the biggest economy in the world, but they are way, way, way far away. We are much bigger than the China economy, and were getting bigger, and theyre not. Now, they have 1.4 billion people, I guess youd call that an advantage. But we have an economy like no other. I think we have the strongest economy weve ever had. I think if you add the economy, the military, and all the other things that weve done, theres nothing like it.  But when trade deals start kicking in, and as I said, the South Korea deal did kick in, and things are happening with that that are very positive. But as they kick in youre going to see tremendous numbers, tremendous changes because the trade deals we had were so pathetic. They were so bad I used to sit back and say to  guys, How did somebody actually negotiate these deals? How did they even negotiate them? This was done at a level that its not even understandable why people were allowed to do it, why they were allowed, how did they get passed.  But were making great deals, and when they kick in the economy is good. As its been doing, I think, Larry, I can say that as good as its been doing, its going to be even better than that. Our country is doing fantastically well, perhaps better than every before. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much."
"Well, thank you very much. My fellow Americans I greet you this morning from the White House to announce a major breakthrough toward achieving a better future for Syria and for the Middle East, its been a long time. Over the last five days, you have seen that a ceasefire that we established along Syrias border has held and its held very well beyond most expectations. Early this morning, the government of Turkey informed my administration that they would be stopping combat and their offensive in Syria and making the ceasefire permanent and it will indeed be permanent.  However, you would also define the word permanent in that part of the world as somewhat questionable, we all understand that, but I do believe it will be permanent. Ive therefore instructed the secretary of the treasury to lift all sanctions imposed on October 14th in response to Turkeys original offensive moves against the Kurds in Syrias Northeast border region. So the sanctions will be lifted unless something happens that were not happy with. This was an outcome created by us, the United States and nobody else, no other nation, very simple.  And were willing to take blame and were also willing to take credit. This is something theyve been trying to do for many decades. Since then, others have come out to help and we welcome them to do so. Other countries have stepped forward, they want to help and we think thats great. The nations and the region must ultimately take on the responsibility of helping Turkey and Syria police their border. We want other nations to get involved. Weve secured the oil and therefore a small number of US troops will remain in the area where they have the oil. And were going to be protecting it and well be deciding what were going to do with it in the future.  In any event, by the moves that weve made, were achieving a much more peaceful and stable area between Turkey and Syria, including a 20 mile wide safe zone, an interesting term, safe zone. Thats the term were using. Hopefully that zone will become safe. Thousands and thousands of people have been killed in that zone over the years that has been sought for many decades and I think we have something thats going to be strong and hold up. Turkey, Syria and all forms of the Kurds had been fighting for centuries. We have done them a great service and weve done a great job for all of them and now were getting out, long time.  We were supposed to be there for 30 days, that was almost 10 years ago. So were there for 30 days and now were leaving. Were supposed to be a very quick hit and lets get out and it was a quick hit except they stayed for almost 10 years. Let someone else fight over this long bloodstained sand. I want to thank vice president Pence and secretary of state Pompeo for leading the American delegation so successfully to Turkey several days ago along with national security advisor OBrien. I want to thank them very much.  The American delegation negotiated the original five-day ceasefire that ended Kurdish fighters to safely leave. It just got them to a point where frankly it enabled them to get out to go and move really just a few miles in a slightly different direction. So this enabled them to do so. Countless lives are now being saved as a result of our negotiation with Turkey, an outcome reached without spilling one drop of American blood. No injuries, nobody shot, nobody killed.  I have just spoken to General Mazloum, a wonderful man, the commander in chief of the SDF Kurds and he was extremely thankful for what the United States has done, could not have been more thankful. General Mazloum has assured me that ISIS is under very strict lock and key and the detention facilities are being strongly maintained. There were a few that got out, a small number, relatively speaking and theyd been largely recaptured.  Im also sure that he will be issuing his own statement very shortly. We had a great talk, but weve saved the lives of many Kurds, he understands that. The war was going to be vicious and probably not very long and Im very happy to have been involved in it as are our vice president, our secretary of state and all of the other people in our team. By getting that ceasefire to stick, weve done something thats very special. But by getting the ceasefire after a tremendous amount of really tough war for a very short period of days, that is something very special.  Our troops are safe and the pain and suffering of the three day fight that occurred was directly responsible for our ability to make an agreement with Turkey and the Kurds that could never have been made without this short term outburst. Should Turkey fail to honor its obligations including the protection of religious and ethnic minorities, which I truly believe they will do, we reserve the right to reimpose crippling sanctions, including substantially increased tariffs on steel and all other products coming out of Turkey.  We are now an economic powerhouse like never before and very importantly like no other. Our economic might is stronger than its ever been and our competitors are not doing very well. We also expect Turkey to abide by its commitment regarding ISIS as a backup to the Kurds watching over them should something happen, Turkey is there to grab them. Further, we implore European countries to come and take those fighters that the US captured and bring them back to their countries for incarceration and for trial.  Until just recently, Europe has been very unresponsive in doing what they should have been doing for a long time. Now is their chance to finally act. American forces defeated 100% of the ISIS caliphate during the last two years. We thank the Syrian Democratic Forces for their sacrifices in this effort, theyve been terrific. Now Turkey, Syria, and others in the region must work to ensure that ISIS does not regain any territory. Its their neighborhood. They have to maintain it, they have to take care of it.  There were some political pundants who responded to Turkeys offensive in Syria by calling for yet another American military intervention. I dont think so. But halting the incursion by military force would have required deploying tens of thousands of American troops against Turkey, a NATO ally and a country the United States has developed a very good relationship with, including President Erdogan. The same people that I watched and read giving me in the United States advice were the people that I have been watching and reading for many years, they are the ones that got us into the Middle East mess but never had the vision or the courage to get us out.  They just talk. How many Americans must die in the middle East, in the midst of these ancient sectarian and tribal conflicts? After all of the precious blood and treasure America has poured into the deserts of the Middle East, I am committed to pursuing a different course, one that leads to victory for America. Through much work, we have done things that everybody said couldnt be done. Todays announcement validates our course of action with Turkey that only a couple of weeks ago was scorned and now people are saying, What a great outcome. Congratulations.  Its too early to me to be congratulated, but weve done a good job. Weve saved a lot of lives. Most importantly, we have avoided another costly military intervention that could have led to disastrous, far reaching consequences. Many thousands of people couldve been killed. The last administration said, Assad must go. They could have easily produced that outcome, but they didnt. In fact, they drew a very powerful red line in the sand.  You all remember the red line in the sand when children were gassed and killed, but then did not honor their commitment as other children died in the same horrible manner. But I did honor my commitments with 58 Tomahawks, eight long years after President Obamas ill-fated push at regime change, US troops are still on the ground in Syria. More than half a million people are dead. Hundreds of thousands are terribly injured and millions more Syrians are displaced.  It really is a nightmare of misery. Across the Middle East we have seen anguish on a colossal scale. We have spent $8 trillion on wars in the Middle East, never really wanting to win those wars, but after all that money was spent and all of those lives lost, the young men and women gravely wounded, so many. The Middle East is less safe, less stable, and less secure than before these conflicts began.  The same people pushing for these wars are often the ones demanding America open its doors to unlimited migration from war torn regions, importing the terrorism and the threat of terrorism right to our own shores. But not anymore. My administration understands that immigration security is national security. As a candidate for president, I made clear that we needed a new approach to American foreign policy.  One guided not by ideology, but by experience, history and a realistic understanding of the world. We are building up Americas military might like never before, investing two and a half trillion dollars since my election, but we will not be depleted. We will not happen again. It will not be allowed to happen again. Where our military is depleted, fighting in areas of the world where we shouldnt be. When we commit American troops to battle, we must do so only when a vital national interest is at stake. And when we have a clear objective, a plan for victory and a path out of conflict, thats what we have to have.  We need a plan of victory, we will only win. Our whole basis has to be the right plan and then we will only win, nobody can beat us. I want to again, thank everyone on the American team who helped achieve the ceasefire in Syria, saved so many lives along with President Erdogan of Turkey, a man Ive gotten to know very well and a man who loves his country and in his mind hes doing the right thing for his country and we may be meeting in the very near future.  I also want to thank General Mazloum for his understanding and for his great strength and for his incredible words today to me, but me just as a representative of the United States. Because he knows that we saved tens of thousands of Kurds and were not talking in the long term. Were talking in the short term, were talking something that was going on immediately and something frankly, that was planned for a long time. The job of our military is not to police the world. Other nations must step up and do their fair share that hasnt taken place. Todays breakthrough is a critical step in that direction. Thank you all very much, and God bless America. Thank you."
"Last night, the United States brought the worlds number one terrorist leader to justice. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is dead. He was the founder and leader of ISIS, the most ruthless and violent terror organization anywhere in the world. The United States has been searching for Baghdadi for many years. Capturing or killing Baghdadi has been the top national security priority of my administration.  US special operations forces executed a dangerous and daring nighttime raid in northwestern Syria and accomplished their mission in grand style. The US personnel were incredible. I got to watch much of it. No personnel were lost in the operation, while a large number of Baghdadis fighters and companions were killed with him. He died after running into a dead end tunnel, whimpering and crying and screaming all the way.  The compound had been cleared by this time with people either surrendering or being shot and killed. 11 young children were moved out of the house and are uninjured. The only ones remaining were Baghdadi in the tunnel, and he had dragged three of his young children with him. They were led to certain death. He reached the end of the tunnel as our dogs chased him down. He ignited his vest killing himself and the three children. His body was mutilated by the blast. The tunnel had caved in on it in addition, but test results gave certain, immediate, and totally positive identification. It was him. The thug who tried so hard to intimidate others spent his last moments in utter fear, in total panic and dread, terrified of the American forces bearing down on him. We were in the compound for approximately two hours, and after the mission was accomplished, we took highly sensitive material and information from the raid, much having to do with ISIS origins, future plans, things that we very much want.  Baghdadis demise demonstrates Americas relentless pursuit of terrorist leaders and our commitment to the enduring and total defeat of ISIS and other terrorist organizations. Our reach is very long. As you know, last month we announced that we recently killed Hamza bin Laden, the very violent son of Osama bin Laden, who was saying very bad things about people, about our country, about the world. He was the heir apparent to Al-Qaida. Terrorists who oppress and murder innocent people should never sleep soundly, knowing that we will completely destroy them. These savage monsters will not escape their fate and they will not escape the final judgment of God. Baghdadi has been on the run for many years, long before I took office, but in my direction as Commander in Chief of the United States, we obliterated his caliphate 100% in March of this year.  Todays events are another reminder that we will continue to pursue the remaining ISIS terrorists to their brutal end. That also goes for other terrorist organizations. They are likewise in our sites. Baghdadi and the losers who worked for him, and losers they are. They had no idea what they were getting into. In some cases, they were very frightened puppies. In other cases, they were hardcore killers, but they killed many, many people. Their murder of innocent Americans James Foley, Steven Sotloff, Peter Kassig, and Kayla Mueller were especially heinous. The shocking publicized murder of Jordanian pilot, a wonderful young man, spoke to the King of Jordan. They all knew him. They all loved him. He was burned alive in a cage for all to see, and the execution of Christians in Libya and Egypt as well as the genocidal mass murder of Yazidis rank ISIS among the most deprived organizations, the history of our world. The forced religious conversions, the orange suits prior to so many beheadings, all of which were openly displayed for the world to see. This was all that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, this is what he wanted. This is what he was proud of. He was a sick and depraved man, and now hes gone. Baghdadi was vicious and violent, and he died in a vicious and violent way as a coward, running and crying.  This raid was impeccable and could only have taken place with the acknowledgement and help of certain other nations and people. I want to thank the nations of Russia, Turkey, Syria, and Iraq, and I also want to thank the Syrian Kurds for certain support they were able to give us. This was a very, very dangerous mission. Thank you as well to the great intelligence professionals who helped make this very successful journey possible. I want to thank the soldiers and sailors, airmen and Marines involved in last nights operation. You are the very best there is anywhere in the world, no matter where you go. There is nobody even close. I want to thank General Mark Milley and our joint chiefs of staff, and I also want to thank our professionals who work in other agencies of the United States government and were critical to the missions. Unbelievable success.  Last night was a great night for the United States and for the world. A brutal killer one who has caused so much hardship and death has violently been eliminated. He will never again harm another innocent man, woman, or child. He died like a dog. He died like a coward. The world is now a much safer place. God bless America. Thank you.  Any questions? Weve had him under surveillance for a couple of weeks. We knew a little bit about where he was going, where he was heading. We had very good information that he was going to another location he didnt go. Two or three efforts were canceled because he decided to change his mind, constantly changing his mind. And finally we saw that he was here, held up here. We knew something about the compound. We knew it had tunnels. The tunnels were dead end for the most part. There was one we think that wasnt, but we had that covered, too, just in case. The level of intelligence, the level of work was was pretty amazing. When we landed with eight helicopters, a large crew of brilliant fighters ran out of those helicopters and blew holes into the side of the building, not wanting to go through the main door because that was booby trapped.  And there was something  it was something really amazing to see. I got to watch it along with General Milley, Vice President Pence, others in the situation room, and we watched it so clearly. Well, I dont want to say how, but we had absolutely perfect as though you were watching a movie. It was a  that in the technology there alone is really great. A big part of the trip that was of great danger was the  it was approximately an hour and 10 minute flight and we were flying over very, very dangerous territory. In fact, some of our leaders said that that could be the most dangerous flying in and flying out, and thats why last night we were so quiet about it. We didnt say anything and I didnt make my remark until after they had landed safely in a certain area. But the flight in, the flight out was a very, very dangerous part. There was a chance that we would have met unbelievable fire.  Russia treated us great. They opened up. We had to fly over certain Russia areas, Russia-held areas. Russia was great. Iraq was excellent. We really had a great cooperation, and you have to understand they didnt know what we were doing and where we were going exactly, but the ISIS fighters are hated as much by Russia and some of these other countries as they are by us, and thats why I say they should start doing a lot of the fighting now, and theyll be able to. I really believe theyll be able to. Yes, Jennifer. They gave us not a military role at all, but they gave us some information that turned out to be helpful, the Kurds. Who? Turkey, we dealt with them. They knew we were going in. We flew over some territory. They were terrific. No problem. They were not problem. They could start shooting and then we will take them out, but a lot of bad things can happen, plus it was a very secret mission. We flew very, very low and very, very fast.  But it was a big, it was a very dangerous part of the mission getting in and getting out, too. Equal. We went in in identical, we took an identical route. We met with gunfire coming in, but it was local gunfire. That gunfire was immediately terminated. These people are amazing. They had the gunfire terminated immediately, meaning they were shot from the airships. Well, Ill tell you. The first day I came to office, and now were getting close to three years, I would say, Wheres al-Baghdadi? I want al-Baghdadi. And we would kill terrorist leaders, but they were names Id never heard of. They were names that werent recognizable and they werent the big names. Some good ones, some important ones, but they werent the big names. I kept saying, Wheres al-Baghdadi? And a couple of weeks ago they were able to scope him out.  These people are very smart. Theyre not into the use of cell phones anymore. Theyre not  theyre very technically brilliant. They use the Internet better than almost anybody in the world, perhaps other than Donald Trump, but they use the Internet incredibly well and what theyve done with the Internet through recruiting and everything, and thats why he died like a dog. He died like a coward. He was whimpering, screaming, and crying, and frankly I think its something that should be brought out so that his followers and all of these young kids that want to leave various countries, including the United States, they should see how he died. He didnt die a hero. He died a coward crying, whimpering, screaming, and bringing three kids with him to die. Certain death, and he knew the tunnel had no end. I mean, it was a closed  closed-end  they call it a closed-end tunnel. Not a good place to be. Ive been looking for him for three years. Ive been looking for him. I started getting some very positive feedback about a month ago, and we had some incredible intelligence officials that did a great job. Thats what they should be focused on that. Well, this operation started two weeks ago in terms of the real operation because we had him scoped. We thought hed be in a certain location. He was. Things started checking out very well. We were involved in on our own team with some brilliant people who Ive gotten to know, brilliant people that love our country, highly intelligent people, and weve had it pretty well scoped out for a couple of weeks, but he tends to change immediately. He had a lot of cash. He tends to change on a dime where hell be going to a certain location. All of a sudden hell go someplace else and youll have to cancel.  But this was one where we knew he was there, and you can never be 100% sure because youre basing it on technology more than anything else. But we thought he was there and then we got a confirmation, and when we went in they were greeted with a lot of firepower, a lot of fire firepower. Ill tell you, these guys, they do a job. They are so brave and so good, and so importantly, many of his people were killed and well announce the exact number over the next 24 hours, but many were killed. We lost nobody. Think of that. Its incredible. Our dog was hurt, actually. The canine was hurt. Went into the tunnel, but we lost nobody. We spoke to the Russians. We told them were coming in, and they said, Thank you for telling us. They were very good. No, they did not know why. No, I they did not know why. We did tell them, We think youre going to be very happy. Because again, they hate ISIS as much as we do, you know what ISIS has done to Russia? So no, we did not tell. They did not know the mission, but they knew we were going over an area that they had a lot of firepower. Weve notified some others are being notified now as I speak. We were going to notify them last night, but we decided not to do that because Washington leaks like Id never seen before. Theres no country in the world that leaks like we do and Washington is a leaking machine. And I told my people we will not notify them until our great people are out. Not just in but out. I dont want to have them greeted with a firepower like you wouldnt believe. So we were able to get in. It was top secret, it was kept. There were no leaks, no nothing.  The only people that knew with a few people that I dealt with, and again, Mark Milley and the joint chiefs of staff were incredible. We had some tremendous back up. Robert OBrien, Secretary Esper, Secretary Pompeo, Pence, I told you, he was great. Theres a very small group of people that knew about this. We had very, very few people. A leak could have caused the death of all of them. Now theyre so good that I think nothing was going to stop them anyway, you want to know the truth. Thats how good they were. We had them also surrounded by massive air power, up in the air yesterday, surrounded at very high levels. We were very low. We had tremendous air power. Secretary Esper, a few of the joint chiefs, Mark Milley, some generals. We had some very great military people in that room and we had some great intelligence people. Robert OBrien, its really great. Yes. No, no. The pullout .. right sure, great question. And youre doing a great job by the way. Your network is fantastic. Theyre really doing a great job. Please let them know. No, the pullout had nothing to do with this. In fact, we found this out at a similar time. Its a very good question because we found this out at a similar time. No, were after these leaders and we have others in sight, very bad ones. But this was the big one. This is the biggest one perhaps that weve ever captured. Because this is the one that built ISIS and beyond and was looking to rebuild it again, very, very strongly looking to build it again.  Thats why he went to this province. This is why he went to this area. You know, a lot of people, I was watching this morning and hearing and they said, Why was he there? People were so surprised. Well, thats where he was trying to rebuild from because that was the place that made most sense if youre looking to rebuild. Yeah. So I sent that right after I knew they had landed safely. Right and that was to notify you guys that you have something big this morning so you wouldnt be out playing golf or tennis or otherwise being indisposed. Id rather not say, but we landed in a very friendly port in a friendly country. No, I think its great. Look, we dont want to keep soldiers between Syria and Turkey for the next 200 years. Theyve been fighting for hundreds of years. Were out, but we are leaving soldiers to secure the oil and we may have to fight for the oil, thats okay. Maybe somebody else wants the oil, in which case they have a hell of a fight. But theres massive amounts of oil and were securing it for a couple of reasons. Number one, it stops ISIS because ISIS got tremendous wealth from that oil. We have taken it, its secured. Number two, and again, somebody else may claim it, but either well negotiate a deal with whoevers claiming it if we think its fair or we will militarily stop them very quickly. We have tremendous power in that part of the world.  You know, the airport is right nearby, a very big, very monstrous, very powerful airport and very expensive airport that was built years ago. Were in that Middle East now for eight trillion dollars. So we dont want to be keeping Syria and Turkey. Theyre going to have to make their own decision. The Kurds have worked along incredibly with us, but in all fairness, it was much easier dealing with the Kurds after they went through three days of fighting because that was a brutal three days. And if we wouldve said to the Kurds, Hey, do you mind moving over seven miles? Because they were in the middle mostly. So you have seven or eight miles. Could you mind moving over? Because I have to say Turkey is taken tremendous deaths from that part of the world. We call it a safe zone, but it was anything but a safe zone.  Turkey has lost thousands and thousands of people from that safe zone. So theyve always wanted that safe zone for many years. Im glad I was able to help them get it, but we dont want to be there. We want to be home. I want our soldiers home or fighting something thats meaningful. Ill tell you who loves us being there, Russia and China. Because while they build their military, were depleting our military there. So Russia loves us being there. Now, Russia likes us big there for two reasons because we kill ISIS, we kill terrorists and theyre very close to Russia. Were 8,000 miles away. Now, maybe they can get here. But weve done very well with Homeland Security and the ban, which by the way is approved by the United States Supreme Court, as you know. You know, there was a reporter that said we lost the case and he was right in the early court.  He didnt want to say  just refused to say that we won the case in the Supreme Court. But we have a very effective ban and its very hard for people to come to our country, but its many thousands of miles away whereas Russias right there. Turkeys right there, Syria is there. Theyre all right there, excuse me, Iran is right there. Iraq is right there. They all hate ISIS. In theory they should do something and Ill give you something else. The European nations have been a tremendous disappointment because I personally called, but my people called a lot. Take your ISIS fighters and they didnt want them. They said, We dont want them. They came from France, they came from Germany, they came from the U.K. They came from a lot of countries and I actually said to them, If you dont take them. Im going to drop them right on your border and you can have fun capturing them again.  But the United States taxpayer is not going to pay for the next 50 years. You see what Guantanamo costs? Were not going to pay tens of billions of dollars because we were good enough to capture people that want to go back to Germany, France, U.K, and other parts of Europe. And they can walk back, they cant walk to our country. We have lots of water in between our country and them. So yeah, go. Well, I would but if I mentioned one, I have to mention so many. I spoke to Senator Richard Burr this morning and as you know, hes very involved with intelligence and the committee and hes a great gentleman. I spoke with Lindsey Graham just a little while ago. In fact, Lindsey Graham is right over here and hes been very much involved in this subject. And hes a very strong hawk, but I think Lindsey agrees with what were doing now. And again, there are plenty of other countries that can help them patrol. I dont want to leave 1,000 or 2000 to 3000 soldiers on the border. But where Lindsey and I totally agree is the oil, the oil is so valuable for many reasons. It fueled ISIS, number one. Number two, it helps the Kurds because its basically been taken away from the Kurds. They were able to live with that oil. And number three, it can help us because we should be able to take some also.  And what I intend to do perhaps is make a deal with an Exxon Mobile or one of our great companies to go in there and do it properly. Right now its not big. Its big oil underground, but its not big oil up top and much of the machinery has been shot and dead. Its been through wars. And spread out the wealth. But no, were protecting the oil. Were securing the oil. Now that doesnt mean we dont make a deal at some point, but I dont want to be  theyre fighting for a thousand years. Theyre fighting for centuries. I want to bring our soldiers back home, but I do want to secure the oil. If you read about the history of Donald Trump, I was a civilian. I had absolutely nothing to do with going into Iraq and I was totally against it, but I always used to say, If theyre going to go in, nobody cared that much, but it got written about, If theyre going to go in, and Im sure youve heard the statement because I made it more then any human being alive. If theyre going into Iraq, keep the oil.  They never did. They never did. I know Lindsay Graham had a bill where basically we would have been paid back for all of the billions of dollars that weve spent. Many, many billions of dollars. I mean, I hate to say it, its actually trillions of dollars, but many, many billions of dollars. And by one vote they were unable to get that approved in the Senate. They had some pretty big opposition from people that shouldnt have opposed, like a president and they werent able. If you did that, Iraq would be a much different story today because they would be owing us a lot of money. They would be treating us much differently, but I will say Iraq was very good with respect to the raid last night. Well, I knew all about this for three days. Yeah. We thought for three days this is what was going to happen. It was actually, look, nobody was even hurt, a K-9 as they call, I call it a dog, a beautiful dog. A talented dog was injured and brought back. But we had no soldier injured and they did a lot of shooting and they did a lot of blasting. Even not going through the front door. Youd think, you go through the door. If youre a normal person, you say, Knock, knock, may I come in? The fact is that they blasted their way into the house and a very heavy wall and it took them literally seconds. By the time those things went off, they had a beautiful big hole and they ran in and they got everybody by surprise. Unbelievably brilliant as fighters. I cant imagine there could be anybody better. And these, as you know, are our top operations people. Well, we dont know that, but he was the last one out and his people had either been killed, which there were many or gave up and came out. Because with the 11 children that came out, we were able to do that. We dont know if they were his children. They mightve been, but as I said, three died in the tunnel and the tunnel collapsed with the explosion. But you had other fighters coming out also and theyre being brought back. Theyre right now  we have them imprisoned. Well, I started five oclock, we were pretty much gathered at five oclock yesterday. We were in contact all day long through hopefully secure phones. Ill let you know tomorrow, but nothing seemed to leak, so I guess they were secure for a change. But we gathered more or less at 5:00. The attack started moments after that. The liftoff started moments after that. Again, the element of attack that they were most afraid of was getting from our base into that compound. Because theres tremendous firepower that we were flying over. And I wont go into it, but you had a very big Russian presence in one area. You had a Turkish presence, you had a Syrian presence and youre flying low, its very dangerous. And there were shots made, but we think these were people that were shooting, that were indiscriminately shooting. The helicopters took some shots, but we think that these were people that were just random people that dont like to see helicopters, I guess. So thats another part of the genius of these people. They brought his  they have his DNA, more of it than they want even. And they brought it with them with lab technicians who were with them and they assumed that this was Baghdadi. They thought visually it was him, but they assumed it was him. And they did a site, an onsite test. They got samples. And to get to his body they had to remove a lot of debris because the tunnel had collapsed. But these people are very good at that. And they, as I said, they brought body parts back with them, et cetera. There wasnt much left, the vest blew up, but theyre still substantial pieces that they brought back. So they did an onsite test because we had to know this and it was a very quick call that took place about 15 minutes after he was killed. And it was positive, This is a confirmation, sir. So there are two women, there were two women. Both wives, both wearing vests. They had not detonated, but the fact that they were dead and they had vests on made it very difficult for our men. Because they had vests on and it made it very difficult for our men because youd never know whats going to happen. Theyre lying, theyre dead. They never detonated, but they were dead. Yeah, we know the successors and weve already got them in our sights and well tell you that right now, but we know the successors. Hamza bin Laden was a big thing, but this is the biggest there is. This is the worst ever. Osama bin Laden was very big, but Osama bin Laden became big with the World Trade Center. This is a man who built a whole, as he would like to call it, a country, a caliphate and was trying to do it again. And I had not heard too much about his health. Ive heard stories about he may not have been in good health, but he died in a ruthless, vicious manner that I can tell you. Yes, we have people that were taken. Many of the people died on the site, but we had people that were taken yes. And the children, we left them under care of somebody that we understand. 11 children. Id rather not say Id leave that to the generals, but a small group.  With the generals, but a small group, more dead than alive. Many of them, and at the top level and people that were truly incredible at their craft. Ive never seen anything like it. No, only American forces. Only American forces, but we were given great cooperation. We told the Russians were coming in, because we had to go over them, and they were curious, but we said were coming. We said one way or the other, hey, look, were coming. But they were very cooperative. They really were good. And we did say it would be a mission that theyd like, too, because you know, again, they hate ISIS as much as we do. So we had our own intel, we got very little help. We didnt need very much help. We have some incredible people. When we use our intelligence correctly, what we can do is incredible. When we waste our time with intelligence, that hurts our country because we had poor leadership at the top, thats not good.  But Ive gotten to know many of the intel people and I will say that they are spectacular. Now, theyre not going to want to talk about it. They want to keep it quiet. The last thing they want, because these are great patriots. But the people that Ive been dealing with are incredible people and its really a deserving name, intelligence.  Ive dealt with some people that arent very intelligent having to do with intel, but this is the top people and it was incredible. It was flawless and it was very complicated, but So I do appreciate Russia, Turkey, Iraq, and Syria to an extent, because you know, were flying into Syria. Theres a lot of Syrian people with lots of guns, so we had good cover for probably the most dangerous part.  It would not sound to, you know when you fly in, it doesnt sound like that would be the most dangerous when youre going into shooting nests and all of the things that happened once they broke into that pretty powerful compound. That was a very strong compound, and as I said had tunnels. But the most dangerous part we had great cooperation with.  Yes maam. No I didnt. I didnt do it. I didnt do that. I wanted to make sure this kept secret. I dont want to have men lost and women, I dont want to have people lost. Oh yeah, theyll be invited. I dont know if theyll want to have their faces shown to be honest with you. You know, they want to, theyre credible for the country. Theyre not looking for public relations, but they love doing what theyre doing.  Ive seen it. First lady was out there recently looking at what they do. She came back, she said, wow, Ive never seen anything like that. The training, you know, all of the training and the power of the people, the men and women, the strength, the physical strength, the mental strength. These are incredible people. These are very unique individuals. I dont want to talk about it- But he was screaming, crying, and whimpering, and he was scared out of his mind. And think of James Foley, think of , think of the things he did to Kayla, what he did to Foley and so many others. And for those people that say, oh, isnt this a little violent? Think of how many times have you seen men, I think in all cases men for the most part, but in terms of this, where you see the orange suits and you see the ocean and theyre beheaded?  Or how many of you got to see, because it was out there, the Jordanian pilot whose plane went down, they captured him, they put him in a cage, and they set him on fire?  And the King of Jordan actually attacked very powerfully when that happened. Theyve never seen a thing like that, but he set him on fire. This was al-Baghdadi and you should never ever hopefully see a thing like that again.  Now, therell be new people emerge, but this was the worst, of this particular world, this was the worst, probably in certain ways, the smartest. He was also a coward and he didnt want to die. But think of it, everybody was out and we were able to search him down and find him in the tunnel. We knew the tunnel existed and thats where he was. Well, I dont have a Syria pullout. I just dont want to guard Turkey and Syria for the rest of our lives. I mean, I dont want to do it. Its very expensive. Its very dangerous. Theyve been fighting for centuries. I dont want to have my people, two thousand men and women, or a thousand, or 28 We had 28 guarding, I said, I dont want them there anyway. I dont want them.  Now, I will secure the oil, that happens to be in a certain part, but thats tremendous money involved. I would love to, you know, the oil and I mean, Ill tell you a story in Iraq, so they spent President Bush went in. I strongly disagreed with it even though it wasnt my expertise at the time, but I had a, I have a very good instinct about things.  They went in and I said, thats a tremendous mistake and there were no weapons of mass destruction. It turned out I was right. I was right for other reasons, but it turned out on top of everything else, they had no weapons of mass destruction. Because that would be a reason to go in, but they had none.  But I heard recently that Iraq over the last number of years actually discriminates against America in oil leases. In other words, some oil companies from other countries, after all weve done, have an advantage in Iraq for the oil.  I said, keep the oil, give them what they need, keep the oil. Why should we, we go in, we lose thousands of lives, spend trillions of dollars, and our companies dont even have an advantage in getting the oil leases. So I just tell you that story. Thats what I heard. Yes. Everybody. Gina was great. Everybody played a role.   was great. Gina was great. They were all great. No. We were looking at this. Look, as I said, , Ive been looking at this, Im here almost three years. Ive been looking at this for three years. Theyd come in, sir, we have somebody under I said, I dont want somebody. I want al-Baghdadi. Thats the one I want.  Theyd say, well we have somebody else. I said, thats great, fine, take him out. But I wanted al-Baghdadi. Thats who I want. I dont want other people.  And then I also wanted Hamza bin Laden. Because hes a young man around 30, looks just like his father, tall, very handsome, and he was talking bad things just like his father.  Do you know if you read my book, there was a book just before the World Trade Center came down, and I dont get any credit for this, but thats okay, I never do. But here we are. I wrote a book, a really very successful book, and in that book about a year before the World Trade Center was blown up, I said, there is somebody named Osama bin Laden. You better kill him or take him out, something to that effect, hes big trouble.  Now, I wasnt in government, I was building buildings and doing what I did, but I always found it fascinating. But I saw this man, tall, handsome, very charismatic, making horrible statements about wanting to destroy our country, and Im writing a book. I think I wrote 12 books, all did very well, and Im writing a book. World Trade Center had not come down. I think it was about, if you check, it was about a year before the World Trade Center came down, and Im saying to people, take out Osama bin Laden, that nobody ever heard of.  Nobody ever heard of. I mean, al-Baghdadi everybody hears because hes built this monster for a long time, but nobody ever heard of Osama bin Laden until really the World Trade Center. But about a year, youll have to check it, a year, year and a half before the World Trade Center came down, the book came out. I was talking about Osama bin Laden. I said, you have to kill him. You have to take him out.  Nobody listened to me. And to this day I get people coming up to me, they said, you know what one of the most amazing things Ive ever seen about you is that you predicted that Osama bin Laden had to be killed before he knocked down the World Trade Center. Its true.  Now most of the press doesnt want to write that, but you know. But it is true, if you go back, look at my book, I think it was The America We Deserve, I made a prediction and I Lets put it this way, if they wouldve listened to me, a lot of things wouldve been different. Well, just death. I mean, you know Im sending a large number of brilliant fighters. These are the greatest fighters in the world. Id rather let the generals tell you, but a large number. We had eight helicopters and we had many other ships and planes. It was a large group. And again, this is a large group heading over very, very strong firepower areas where that was decision one, will they make it? And they made it. But they took fire, but they made it.  They didnt take, we dont believe, again, it was nation fire. We believe it was individual group fire or gang fires, they call it. So they made it. So that was a big relief.  Then they went in, they blasted their way in, youve heard. They blasted their way in so quickly. It was incredible, because this building was quite powerful, strong. They blasted their way in and then all hell broke loose. Its incredible that nobody was killed or hurt. We had nobody even hurt, and thats why the dog was so great.  We actually had a robot to go in the tunnel, but we didnt get it because we were tracking him very closely. But we had a robot just in case because we were afraid he had a suicide vest on, and if you get close to him and he blows it up, youre going to die. Youre going to die. He had a very powerful suicide vest. No, they had it, just incredible, we were getting full reports on literally a minute by minute basis. Sir, we just broke in, sir, the wall is down, sir, you know, weve captured, sir, two people are coming out right now, hands up fighters.  Then the 11 children out, numerous people were dead within the building that they killed. Then it turned out they gave us a report, sir, theres only one person in the building. We are sure hes in the tunnel trying to escape, but its a dead end tunnel.  And it was brutal, but it was over. And as I said, when he blew himself up, the tunnel collapsed on top of him on top of everything And his children, I mean, so he led his three children to death. So, you know. The robot was set to, but we didnt hook it up because we were too, they were moving too fast. We were moving fast. We werent 100% sure about the tunnel being dead ended.  Its possible that there could have been an escape hatch somewhere along that we didnt know about. So we moved very, very quickly. I mean- These people, they were moving. They were chasing. Yeah, they were chasing. But again, because the suicide vest, you cant get too close. Again, one of the reasons with the wives is if they have a suicide vest, you know, you have to be very, very careful. These vests are brutal, brutal. And they go for a long distance. Yes, please. Im calling the families now. It will be a pleasure to do that. The Foley family who I know, we will be calling Kaylas family. What he did to her was incredible. Its a well known story, and Im not going to say it, but you know that he kept her in captivity for a long period of time. He kept her in his captivity, his personal captivity.  She was a beautiful woman, beautiful young woman, helped people. She was there to help people and he saw her and he thought she was beautiful and he brought her into captivity for a long period of time and then he killed her.  He was an animal, and he was a gutless animal. Thank you all very much. I appreciate its- A very great day for our country."
"Im sorry. Well thank you very much. Its great to be with President Macron of France, and weve had a very long relationship and a very good one. And we were just discussing certain things, and then wed have a long conversation afterwards. First of all, before we begin, I want to pay my respects to the great warriors that you lost in Mali, 13 helicopters. It was sad. Ive gotten a report on it. We talked about it, and please give my condolences to the families and to France, great fighters. Youve done a fantastic job in that whole area. Its a tough area, so we appreciate it very much.  Well be talking about a lot of things including NATO and including trade. We do a lot of trade with France, and we have a minor dispute. I think well probably be able to work it out. But, we have a big trade relationship, and Im sure that within a short period of time, things will be looking very rosy, we hope. Thats usually the case with the two of us. We get our work done. Weve had a lot of cool things. Weve done a lot of good things together as partners. Our countries have been partners in many good ventures including some having to do with radical Islam and others. Its always worked out, so I look forward to our discussion.  We made a lot of progress in our first 25 minutes, and we intend to make a lot of progress in our next hour, maybe hour and a half. So, thank you very much. Well, we just began discussing NATO. And what Im liking about NATO is that a lot of countries have stepped up, I think really at my behest and also yourself. Youre close to that level. Theyve stepped up, and theyve put up a lot of money. I think it was 130 billion dollars, and thats a lot. Theyre not stepping up again. Its going to be 400 billion dollars. But we are very sure we have commitments to 400 billion dollars. We just left the Secretary General, and hes got some things that are very important, and discussed with him the flexibility so that we have its not just with one area of the world. You and I discuss this all the time. We have all areas of the world because NATOs a lot different than it was, and now its certainly a lot different over the last three years. So, we have a lot of countries stepping up and putting up a lot of money. The number, as of this moment, is exactly 131 billion dollars. Thats a year, and thats a tremendous amount of money, but its not enough. They also raised and have commitments for 400 billion dollars.  So, NATO, which was really heading in the wrong direction three years ago is heading down. If you look at a graph, it was to a point where I dont think they couldve gone on much longer. Now, its actually very strong and getting stronger. Many people are committed to that 2%, and ultimately, I think the 2% will be raised. The President and I, I think, feel that we need more flexibility. And I think we both agree on that so that we can use it for other things, not just looking at one specific country. A lot of people say it was meant to look at originally the Soviet Union, now Russia. But, we also have other things to look at, whether its radical Islamic terrorism, whether its the tremendous growth of China. There are a lot of other things.  NATO is becoming different than it was, much bigger than it was, and much stronger than it was because people are now fulfilling their commitments. There are some countries that arent fulfilling their commitment, and those countries are going to be dealt with. Maybe Ill deal with them from a trade standpoint. Maybe Ill deal with them in a different way. Ill work something out where they have to pay, but we dont wan to have people delinquent. I really dont think its fair for us to be involved, including France, by the way, to be involved if you have countries that arent paying their way. Theyre less than 1%. You have a couple that are less than 1%. Not fair.  NATO has made a lot of progress over the last three years, and the word flexibility is very important. Theyre not just looking at one area now. Theyre looking at the world, and its very important. To me, its very important.  Yes? Well, one thing I would also like to say that youve been really doing a great job in Africa, and youve been very much involved there, more than most. And thats been fantastic. I appreciate you saying the United States for decades have been paying really way, way disproportionately too much, and you have other countries paying far too little that are very directly benefited by it and by the United States involvement. Were changing that around somewhat, its important. But, were a very important player. I think without us, NATO certainly is not the same thing as we discussed, and discuss it at length. This morning, we discussed it with Secretary General Stoltenberg. But, were behind you 100%, and all of the money thats been raised, and all of these countries that are all of a sudden putting up money, its a great thing to see.  But, we do have a great We really have a different objective, I think, right now. Were looking at a much bigger picture, and that includes You mentioned Iraq, but it really includes Iran, too, I think. If you look at whats going on in Iran, they have massive riots. Theyre having protests all over the country, and theyre killing a lot of people. Everybody knows that. Thats why they turned off their internet system, so nobody can find out. But, if the media would go there, and I think its very hard for the media to go there, frankly, right now. But, theyre killing a lot of people.  But, NATO has come a long way in three years, and its something that were very proud of because were with them. NATO serves a fantastic function if everybodys involved. If theyre not involved And I really believe that the President is very much involved and likes the idea of NATO, but he wants it also to be utilized properly. If its not utilized properly, we all agree, right? Thats no good.  Weve had a very good discussion. A lot of people, and were meeting with a lot of countries later, as you know. Theyre really stepping up. For the most part, theyre all stepping up. We have one or two that arent, and well have to deal with them in a different way. Maybe, as I said, well deal with them on trade. We have a lot of power with respect to trade. They make a fortune with the United States, and then they dont pay their bills. Thats no good. But NATOs come a long way in three years, and its become very powerful, I think, very very powerful. Its become, I think, a much fairer statement in terms of the United States because were able to go down a little bit.  We were paying four or 4.3% of the largest GDP ever. Nobodys ever had a GDP like we have right now, and nobodys come close. Other people were paying 1%. Some people were paying less than 1% of a very small GDP. Its not fair. And they get it back. We protect them, but its not fair. So, a lot of changes have been made.  , go ahead. Right. Well, were working on that right now. We have discussed it. I think well be able to work something out, I hope, and maybe not. Maybe well do it through taxing. We could work it out easily through taxing. But, the American companies, the tech companies that youre talking about, they arent my favorite people because theyre not exactly for me. But, thats okay. I dont care. Theyre American companies, and we want to tax American companies. Its important. We want to tax them. Thats not for somebody else to tax.  As the President knows, we tax wine, and we have other taxes scheduled. But, wed rather not do that. But, thats the way it would work. So, its either going to work out, or well work out some mutually beneficial tax. And the tax will be substantial, and Im not sure its going to come to that, but it might. Well, I havent asked that to the President today. I have over the period of time. We have a tremendous amount of captured ISIS fighters over in Syria, and theyre all under lock and key. But, many are from France, many are from Germany, and many are from the UK. Theyre mostly from Europe, and some of the countries are agreeing I have not spoken to the President about that. Would you like some nice ISIS fighters? I could give them to you. You can take every one you want. This is why hes a great politician because that was one of the greatest non-answers Ive ever heard, and thats okay. France has actually taken back some fighters. But, we have a lot of fighters. Weve captured a lot of people, and we have captured 100% of the caliphate. But, you know that that means they keep going and going. We sent a small contingent in, and we wiped out another portion of ISIS. We dont want to happen to me what happened with President Obama, where it reformed, and then it became stronger than it was in the first place. So, we dont want that to happen. As I said before, weve taken the oil. We have the oil, so we have total control of the oil so that theyre not going to be able to use it. They use that oil to really fuel up their wealth, to fuel up their money. That was a primary source of income.  And they get contributions, and we have now lists of where these contributions come from, which is very important. People contributed, if you can believe it. Some of these people are wealthy people that made contributions, and we have lists of We learned a lot. When we got al-Baghdadi, that was a great get. And when we killed him, we have a lot of information that Im revealing now for the first time. But, we also got a lot of good information. A lot of things are happening, and France has been very helpful. I have to say that theyve been very very helpful. Okay.  Go ahead. Any other questions, please? I largely agree with that answer. I just have to say that I came into a position, where the European Union was making anywhere from 100 to 150 billion dollars a year in deficits to the United States. They were making it. We were losing it, so we had to do something that is fair, not severe. I think fair. Were losing tremendous amounts of money. As you know, the European Union is very strong on barriers. Barriers meaning certain of our products cant come in, including agriculture product. It just cant come in. We cant sell it, and yet the European Union sells openly to the United States and generally untaxed or taxed at a low level. So, these are problems that were talking about. These are problems that were working out, and the digital tax is the least of it.  I inherited a situation where the European Union, which was formed partially for this reason. I guess for a lot of reasons, it was formed, but partially to make better or take advantage of the United States. Theyve done that very brilliantly, and frankly, its not right. So, Ive exposed it. A lot of people didnt know it, and were doing things about it. We have no choice because the United States cant continue to lose the kind of money that theyve lost literally since the formation of the European Union. And I think well work something out. They want to talk, as you know. The new head wants to talk, who is supposed to be a very respected woman, very highly respected, and I look forward to meeting her. They want to meet.  But, we have a very unfair trade situation, where the US loses a lot of money for many, many years with the European Union, billions and billions of dollars. To be specific, over 150 billion dollars a year. So, we dont want to be doing that, and we can make a deal, or we could take a harsh approach. We could solve that problem instantaneously, if we wanted to. But, I dont want to do that. These are friends of ours. These are people that weve had very extraordinary relationships with, and I do personally. And Im sure we can work something out. I dont want to comment on that, but the answer is no. But, I dont want to comment on that. Well, I can only say we have a very good relationship with Turkey, and with President Erdogan, I do. I cant speak for the President of France. We have a very good relationship. We pulled our soldiers out and we said, You can patrol your own border now. I dont care who you do it with, but were not going to have soldiers patrolling the border thats been fought over for 2,000 years. But, we took our soldiers out. We put some of the soldiers around the area where weve captured the oil and taken the oil, and we have the oil. And weve brought some home, and we will be bringing some home, and weve sent some to other areas. But, we have a very good relationship with Turkey. This is really why were having meetings. Those are our points, and well be discussing that with the President today. Yes? Were looking at it now, and were talking about it now. As you know, Turkey wanted to buy our Patriot system, and the Obama administration wouldnt let them. They only let them when they were ready to buy another system, which is not the same system. But, Turkey, for a long period of time, wanted very much to buy the Patriot system, which is our system, which is what NATO uses, which is a great system, which is the best system. They wouldnt sell it to Turkey. So, there are two sides of the story. I have to say this. But, we will be discussing that with Turkey in a little while. Well be meeting with Turkey in a little while, and also tomorrow.  . Are you talking about Ambassador. Oh, I thought you meant Woody Johnson. I said, Boy, hes really risen rapidly. Woody. Where is Woody? Is he here? Hes not here. This is his house. I cant believe hes not here.  Yes, well be meeting with Prime Minister Johnson in a little while. Ill be seeing him later on. Were going over to number 10, which is a very exciting place to be, as you know. And well be discussing a lot of different things. Yes. No. I dont have a comment on the London Bridge attack, other than to say that I was very proud of those people that grabbed them and did such a good job between the fire extinguishers and whatever else. It was an amazing job they did, and he was very violent. You could see that. I mean this was captured very much on tape. I think they were British citizens. The way they stepped up was incredible. That was really great. So, a terrible thing, a terrible attack. A lot of people very badly hurt. I believe three or four killed. Is it four now today? So, its terrible. Its a terrible thing, and I know its an act of terrorism. Its been declared an act of terrorism, radical Islamic terrorism, by the way. And its very bad, very bad. But, I think the way they stepped up, to me, that was something very special. Okay? I dont think he does feel that. I think we get along with Russia. I think we could get along with Russia. I think you feel we can get along with Russia. Weve discussed that before. But, certainly we have to be prepared. Whether its Russia or somebody else, we have to be prepared. But, you and I have a pretty similar view on that. I think we feel that we can get along with Russia, and I think its a good thing to get along with Russia. I campaigned on it, when I go into big stadiums, people like it. And, I think the Russian people would like to see it, too. A lot of good can come out of it. But, the purpose of NATO is that, but the purpose of NATO can be much more. And thats where weve shown the flexibility over the last period of two years. And I think the situation in Ukraine is very important. I think that the meetings coming up with Russia and Ukraine are very important. There is a possibility that some very big progress can be made. Its very important for Ukraine. I think its very important from the standpoint of Russia, also, that they work out a treaty, they work out peace because theyve been fighting a long time, too long. I think theres a really good chance that that will happen. Also, with respect to nuclear weapons, Ive spoken to President Putin, and Ive communicated with him, and he very much wants to and so do we, work out a treaty of some kind on nuclear weapons. That will probably then include China at some point, and yourselves, by the way. But, it will include China and some other countries. But, we intend to see if we can work something out to stop the proliferation, to stop whats happening because we are making a lot, and we are renovating a lot.  And frankly, the whole situation with nuclear is not a good situation. We ended the treaty because it wasnt being adhered to by the other side. But, they want to make a treaty, and so do we, and I think it would be a great thing. I think its one of the most important things we can do, frankly. So, were going to be dealing with Russia on a treaty where we really And were focused on nuclear and nuclear weapons, missiles, and nuclear weapons. And we think something can be worked out. We think they want to do it. We know they want to do it, and we want to do it, also.  Ive spoke to China about it. During one of our trade negotiations, they were extremely excited about getting involved in that. So, some very good things can happen with respect to that. I think its very important. The whole nuclear situation, very very important.  .  Thank you all very much. Thank you.  .   these people again.  .  (silence)."
"As long as Im president of the United States Iran will never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon. Good morning. Im pleased to inform you, the American people should be extremely grateful and happy. No Americans were harmed in last nights attack by the Iranian regime. We suffered no casualties. All of our soldiers are safe,, and only minimal damage was sustained at our military bases. Our great American forces are prepared for anything. Iran appears to be standing down, which is a good thing for all parties concerned and a very good thing for the world. No American or Iraqi lives were lost because of the precautions taken, the dispersal of forces, and an early warning system that worked very well.  I salute the incredible skill and courage of Americas men and women in uniform. For far too long, all the way back to 1979 to be exact, nations have tolerated Irans destructive, and destabilizing behavior in the middle East and beyond. Those days are over. Iran has been the leading sponsor of terrorism, and their pursuit of nuclear weapons threatens the civilized world. We will never let that happen. Last week, we took decisive action to stop a ruthless terrorist from threatening American lives. At my direction, the United States military eliminated the worlds top terrorist, Quasem Soleimani. As the head of the Quds force, Soleimani was personally responsible for some of the absolutely worst atrocities.  He trained terrorists armies, including Hezbollah, launching terrorist strikes against civilian targets. He fueled bloody civil Wars all across the region. He viciously wounded, and murdered thousands of US troops, including the planting of roadside bombs that may him and dismember their victims. Soleimani directed the recent attacks on US personnel in Iraq, that badly wounded for service members, and killed one American, and he orchestrated the violent assault on the US Embassy in Baghdad. In recent days, he was planning new attacks on American targets, but we stopped him.  Soleimanis hands were drenched in both American and Iranian blood. He should have been terminated long ago. By removing Soleimani, we have sent a powerful message to terrorists. If you value your own life, you will not threaten the lives of our people. As we continue to evaluate options in response to Iranian aggression, the United States will immediately impose additional punishing economic sanctions on the Iranian regime. These powerful sanctions will remain until Iran changes its behavior. In recent months alone Irans sea ships in international waters fired an unprovoked strike on Saudi Arabia, and shot down to US drones. Irans hostilities substantially increased after the foolish Iran nuclear deal was signed in 2013, and they were given $150 billion not to mention $1.8 billion in cash. Instead of saying thank you to the United States, they chanted death to America.  In fact, they chanted death to America the day the agreement was signed. Then Iran went on a terrorist spree, funded by the money from the deal, and created hell in Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Afghanistan, and Iraq. The missiles fired last night at us, and our allies were paid for with the funds made available by the last administration. The regime also greatly tightened the reins on their own country. Even recently killing 1500 people, at the many protests that are taking place all throughout Iran. The very defective JCPOA expires shortly anyway, and gives a ran a clear and quick path to nuclear breakout.  Iran must abandon its nuclear ambitions and end its support for terrorism. The time has come for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia, and China to recognize this reality. They must now break away from the remnants of the Iran deal, or JCPOA, and we must all work together toward making a deal with Iran that makes the world a safer, and more peaceful place. We must also make a deal that allows Iran to thrive and prosper and take advantage of its enormous untapped potential. Iran can be a great country. Peace and stability cannot prevail in the Middle East as long as the Iran continues to foment violence, unrest, hatred and war. The civilized world, must send a clear and unified message to the Iranian regime. Your campaign of terror, murder, mayhem will not be tolerated any longer. It will not be allowed to go forward.  Today, I am going to ask NATO to become much more involved in the Middle East process. Over the last three years. Under my leadership, our economy is stronger than ever before, and Americas achieved energy independence. These historic accomplishments shades our strategic priorities. These are accomplishments that nobody thought were possible, and options in the Middle East became available. We are now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. We are independent and we do not need Middle East oil. The American military has been completely rebuilt under my administration at a cost of two point $5 trillion. US armed forces are stronger than ever before.  Our missiles are big, powerful, accurate, lethal, and fast. Under construction, are many hypersonic missiles. The fact that we have this great military and equipment, however, does not mean we have to use it. We do not want to use it. American strength, both military, and economic is the best deterrent. Three months ago after destroying 100% of ISIS, and its territorial caliphate, we killed the savage leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi who is responsible for so much death, including the mass beheadings of Christians, Muslims, and all who stood in his way. He was a monster. al-Baghdadi was trying again to rebuild the ISIS caliphate and failed. Tens of thousands of ISIS fighters have been killed or captured during my administration.  ISIS is a natural enemy of Iran. The destruction of ISIS is good for Iran, and we should work together on this and other shared priorities. Finally, to the people and leaders of Iran, we want you to have a future and a great future, one that you deserve. One of prosperity at home, and harmony with the nations of the world. The United States is ready to embrace peace with all who seek it. I want to thank you, and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you."
"Unemployment rates among African American, Hispanic American, Asian Americans has reached a record low in the history of our country, the lowest. African American youth unemployment has reached the lowest in the history of our country. So proud of that. African American poverty numbers have plummeted to their lowest rate ever recorded, doing really well. Unemployment rate for women has reached the lowest level in almost 70 years, and the veterans unemployment rate dropped to a record low. Unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached its all time record low, also. These are incredible numbers . Workers without a high school diploma have received the and achieved the lowest unemployment rate ever in recorded history. Thats so important, without a high school diploma. We have a lot of great people that dont have a high school diploma. We have record low unemployment. A record number of young Americans are now employed.  We have the highest number of people working in our country that weve ever had before. Weve never had anything even close. Were almost up to 160 million, and weve lifted 10 million people off of welfare, and you know all about food stamps. We talk about it all the time, but millions and millions of people dont need food stamps anymore. Sad that weve lifted them off, which we have, but they dont need them anymore. They have jobs. Theyre doing really well.  The U.S. stock markets have soared, and theyve reached the highest point that theyve ever, ever had. Weve made at least $19 trillion in terms of wealth, in terms of wealth creation for our country beyond the stock markets, and we are now, by far, the biggest economy in the world. China would have caught us. They were getting very close. It was anticipated that in 2019  This is for many years. Im not telling any secrets, that by 2019, China would become the largest economy in the world. Right now, were much larger, but we have a great new deal with China, great deal.  We have, I would say, our best relationship that weve ever had with China on top of everything else, and were starting phase two. Phase one turned out to be much bigger than we anticipated because we have intellectual property protections, we have many of the financial deals and aspects of the financial deals that we wanted we got done, and other things, in addition to the farmers. Weve got the total complete package for the farmers. We estimate that itll be anywhere between 40 and $50 billion. The number I think is going to be closer to 50 billion. The most theyve ever done is 16, so we go from 16 to anywhere from 40 to 50 billion that theyll be purchasing.  Were an economic powerhouse like, actually, weve never been. Jobs, factories, companies are pouring back into the United States. Thats one of the reasons Ive been in Davos is we have had conversations with other leaders of other countries where weve traditionally had tremendous deficits. I say, You have to move factories and plants back here. They took a lot of them. They actually took a lot of them, and now theyre going to move them back. Theyre not going to move them back. The companies are coming back because everybody wants to be here, but the countries also understand that we have to balance out our trade, and were doing incredibly well in that way.  One of the people that was very important for me to meet from the World Trade Organization is Roberto Azevedo, and he is a highly respected man. He happens to be this gentleman right here. I thought Id have him say a few words, but the World Trade Organization is  Ive had a dispute running with them for quite a while because our country hasnt been treated fairly.  Chinas viewed as a developing nation. India is viewed as a developing nation. Were not viewed as a developing nation. As far as Im concerned, were a developing nation, too, but they got tremendous advantages by the fact that they were considered developing, and we werent, and they shouldnt be, but if they are, we are, and were talking about a whole new structure for the deal, or well have to do something, but the World Trade Organizations been very unfair to the United States for many, many years, and without it, China wouldnt be China. China wouldnt be where they are right now. That was the vehicle that they used, and I give them great credit, and I also dont give the people that were in my position great credit because, frankly, they let that all happen, but the vehicle was the World Trade Organization.  Roberto and I have a tremendous relationship, and were going to do something that I think will be very dramatic. Hell be coming with a lot of his representatives to Washington sometime, maybe next week or the week after, and well start working on it. Id like to introduce just for briefly Roberto and say a few words on behalf of the WTO, and then Im going to introduce Larry Kudlow to say exactly where we are in terms of our economy. Some of you know, but weve had some tremendous numbers just over the very recent past. So please, Roberto. Thank you very much. Great. Larry, please, Larry Kudlow. Thank you very much, Larry. I mean, when you think that soon, itll start pretty soon, its already started to a certain extent, I asked him to do it, china is going to be purchasing more than $250 billion worth of goods from our country. Thats massive. Those are numbers that nobodys ever heard of before, and that number can grow. It can grow with time. Its going to grow substantially, I predict. Then, you have the USMCA, Mexico, Canada, and thats massive numbers were talking about there. We made a deal with Japan, $40 billion, and we made a deal with South Korea. Thats a tremendous deal, also. That was a horrible deal. We turned it into a really good deal. It was really something.  While we were in Davos, most of you know this, we met with the world leaders, various world leaders, including the President of the European Commission, who were going to start negotiating a trade deal with, because the European commission was, frankly, in many ways, tougher than China. I say that respectfully, but thats the way it is. Theyve taken advantage for a long time, and so were going to have a deal. I suspect were going to be able to make a deal. Otherwise, well have to do something else. I think theyre going to make a deal. They havent wanted to negotiate with past Presidents, but theyre going to negotiate with me. The President of the Swiss Confederation, whos been very nice and terrific, the President of Kurdistan, we had a tremendous meeting along, with President Salih of Iraq, the Prime Minister Khan of Pakistan, and President Ghani of Afghanistan. In addition, we met with many of the business leaders both at breakfast today and lunch yesterday and dinner yesterday. Many of you were at those meetings at least for a little while, and tremendous numbers of jobs will be coming into the United States. A lot of these leaders, these are the biggest business leaders in the world, and this morning was very inspirational. I mean, these companies are really going to expand, and it was a request of mine, but what we did, weve been very good to them. Theyre all doing very well, and we have companies from Europe, companies from Asia now coming to the United States. Thats where the action is, as one of them said,  thats where the action is. Its really been great. Now, well be going. Well be leaving and going back to Washington. Yes? Go ahead. Well, Ill tell you the way I look at it. Its a total hoax. Its a disgrace. They talked about their tremendous case, and its all done, their tremendous case. They had no case. Its all a hoax. Its a con job, like Schiff. Hes a corrupt politician. Now, Ill leave that to the Senate. The Senate is going to have to answer that. I have great respect for the Senate as a body, and many of the individuals I have great respect, so Ill leave that to the Senate, but this is the greatest witch hunt.  This started from the day I came down with the future First Lady. The day we came down the escalator, this started, and I watched the  Theyve been driven crazy. You know whats driven them crazy? All of these record numbers on unemployment, African American, Asian American. You take a look. Hispanic American is numbers that nobodys even believing. They are looking at all of this. Theyre looking at this tremendous success, the likes of which theyve never seen before in this country. Theyve never seen anything like this, and its driven the Democrats crazy. As Congressman Green said, Al Green, hes a beauty. As Congressman green said, We got to beat him by impeachment because we cant beat him in the election. I hope thats-   Because we cant beat them in the election. And I hope thats true, because honestly, they cant beat me in the election. I dont think they can. I know what Ill be running against one way or the other. Its one of them and I think were going to do very well, but I think were going to do well because nobodys done in the first three years, less than three years, because a lot of these numbers were taken from two months ago. They ended two months ago. In less than three years, nobodys done the kind of numbers weve done. So Im going to head back and Ill be watching it, but its really going to be up to the Senate. Were going to have them make that determination. Please.  Please. I didnt say anger, I said anger management. How old is she? Thats good. She beat me out on Time Magazine. No, I didnt actually. But I wouldve loved to have seen her speak. I did  not. No, not at all. I think what is  I think aspects of it are, I think that some people are  They put it at a level that is unrealistic, to a point you cant live your lives. We want to have the cleanest water on earth. We want to have the cleanest air on earth. Our numbers, as you saw, we had record numbers come out very recently. Our numbers are very, very good. Our environmental numbers, our water numbers, our numbers on air are tremendous. We have to do something about other continents. We have to do something about other countries. When were clean and beautiful and everythings good, but you have another continent where the fumes are rising at levels that you cant believe. I mean, I think Greta ought to focus on those places, but we are doing better right now than weve ever done in terms of cleanliness, in terms of numbers. We have a beautiful ocean called the Pacific Ocean with thousands and thousands of tons of garbage flows toward us and thats put there by other countries. So I think Greta has to start working on those other countries. By the way, congratulations on your show. They made a very wise decision. Oh, good. Well, you got to talk to the lawyers about it. But I will tell you, theres nothing here. I had a very innocent conversation with a very fine gentleman from the Ukraine and it was based on that. People dont even want to talk about the conversation. I got to watch glimpses in between all of these meetings that I just told you about. I got to watch glimpses of what is taking place, wasting time in Washington. And I watched  They dont talk about my conversation. They dont talk about my transcripts.  Remember this, when Schiff made up the phony story and he repeated it to Congress and the world and it was a totally phony story. Then I released the transcript. There was supposed to be a second whistleblower. What happened to him? There was  Wait, wait. Otherwise, I wont do your show. Wait. There was supposed to be an informer. What happened to the informer? All of these people disappeared and when they saw this transcript they said, We got problems. But they went ahead because they were already there, because they had a phony concocted story made up. So heres the story. Did nothing wrong. It was a perfect conversation. It was totally appropriate.  The best lawyers in the world have looked at it. The Department of Justice has looked at it, given it a sign off. There was nothing wrong. They never thought I was going to release the conversation. They probably didnt think we had transcribers or we had it transcribed or taped, but they never thought we were going to release it. When we released that conversation, all hell broke out with the Democrats. Because they say, Wait a minute, this is much different than Shifty-Schiff told us. So were doing very well. I got to watch enough. I thought our team did a very good job. But honestly, we have all the material. They dont have the material. Well, it depends. But if you take a look at this, and from what everybody tells me, all I do is Im honest. I make great deals. Ive made great deals for our country. Now were working with the WTO. Youre probably surprised by that, but theres been a longterm abusive situation to the US. I make great deals for our country and theyre honest deals. And when you read that transcription  And by the way, it wasnt one call. It was two calls. Nobody likes to talk about that. There was one call, which was perfect. And then there was a second call, I guess a couple of months later, which was perfect.  The President of Ukraine said it was perfect. The Foreign Minister of Ukraine said it was perfect. So if we have a transcription, we have the call and we have the person on the other side of the call saying it was good. Now heres the other thing, they got their money long before a schedule. They got all their money. What nobody says, its very important to me, why isnt Germany paying, why isnt UK paying? Why isnt France paying? Why arent the European nations paying? Why is it always the sucker United States? Thats one. And the other thing I wanted to check very carefully and its very important is corruption. And we do that too. This was a perfect call and I think were doing very well. We are discussing it already, yes. We would like to see if we can do something. But again, were doing a trade deal and its a very big deal. Phase one is done. Phase two is being discussed. We are discussing aspects of your question, yes. No, . I can live either way. I can live  Ill tell you what I think, its such a hoax. I think its so bad for our country when we have the head of the World Trade Organization here and he has to listen to this nonsense about a call that was perfect that nobody talks about. I never see them talking about the transcription. I never see them talking about the call because theres nothing to say. You read it. Somebody should just sit there and read it and everybodys going to say, You mean thats an impeachable event? If that were impeachable, Lyndon Johnson would have had to leave office on his first day. Kennedy wouldve had to leave office his first day. Its a hoax and you understand its a hoax better than anybody. Its a hoax and thats the way it is. Yeah. Go ahead. No. I heard that they had headaches and a couple of other things, but I would say, and I can report it is not very serious, not very serious. They told me about it numerous days later. Youd have to ask Department of Defense. No, I dont consider them very serious injuries relative to other injuries that Ive seen. Ive seen what Iran has done with their roadside bombs to our trips. Ive seen people with no legs and with no arms. Ive seen people that were horribly, horribly injured in that area, that war. In fact, many cases put those bombs, put there by Soleimani whos no longer with us. I consider them to be really bad injuries. No, I do not consider that to be bad injuries, no. Yeah. I have a timeline  Yeah. Yeah, great question, actually. I dont have a timeline, but maybe I do in my own mind. They have to move relatively quickly, but they have to treat us fairly. The European Union was formed pretty much for this reason, I suspect, if you really think about it. Why was it formed? They formed their airplane company, which does very nicely and now is doing better than ever because Boeing has not had a good time of it. They better start recovering fast. I hope they do. They have some good people in there now. They have great people in the company, but they have some good people leading it now. So hopefully, thatll be taken care of. But, no. I have a date in my mind and its a fairly quick date and if were unable to make a deal, then well do even better. Well do even better.   But they havent treated us right. Look, the United States has been losing 150 billion and more for many years. 150 billion, more. I mean, really, more than that with the European Union. They have trade barriers where you cant trade. They have tariffs all over the place. They make it impossible. They are frankly more difficult to do business with then China. We have a great relationship with China now. We had some testy moments, very testing, beyond testy. Worse than a lot of people would understand, but we got it done and I think phase two will go nicely also. But with the European Union, and frankly Ill be honest, I wanted to wait until I finished China before I went to work on respectfully Europe. But Europe is so beautiful. I guess a lot of us come indirectly from Europe. Isnt that nice? But they are actually more difficult to do business with than China.  All you have to do is ask Boris, but I think Boris is going to be okay too. I think hes going to come out great. I think he had a lot of guts. Hes done a terrific job. I think hes in a good position, which they wouldve never been able to do before Boris. I have a date. I have a very specific date in my mind. Before. I think well have a deal before. Yeah, I think so. They have to do that. I mean, I dont want to  Look, Im not saying it from strength or from weakness. Im just saying they have to do it. They wanted to make a deal. Our nation, our country wanted to make a deal under President Obama. The EU refused to talk to them and then they said, No, no, we like it the way it is. Of course, they like it the way it is. Theyre making 150 billion-plus. Right? And as you know, President Bush was desperate to make a deal. They wouldnt even talk to him. Me, theyre talking to and well have a deal. If we dont have a deal, well do even better.  Yes, . Yes. We have a travel ban. Its a very powerful ban and a lot of  I heard a reporter recently say he lost the ban in court. They didnt say that we won it in the Supreme Court. Id say thats a little deceptive, John, wouldnt you? He said he lost the travel ban. I didnt lose the travel ban. The travel ban was lost in the lower courts and won in the Supreme Court two years ago. No, we are. Were adding a couple of countries to it. We have to be safe. Our country has to be safe. You see whats going on in the world. Our country has to be safe, so we have a very strong travel ban and well be adding a few countries to it. Its going to be announced very shortly, okay?  John? . Yeah, John. Well, youre asking a lot of questions. First of all, Jerry Nadler, Ive known him a long time. Hes a sleazebag. Everybody knows that. Pat Cipollone is a high quality human being. I was very impressed with Pat. He had great emotion yesterday. Pats a brilliant guy, but Ive never seen that emotion and thats real emotion. Thats because he knows this is a hoax. And I was very proud of the job he did. Ive known Jerry Nadler for a long time. Hes opposed many of my jobs. I got them all built, very successfully built in New York. So we have yet another fight. Isnt it amazing? Isnt it surprising? Isnt it amazing? But if you look at other aspects or other parts of your question, I think that the  I would rather go the long way. I would rather interview Bolton. I would rather interview a lot of people. The problem with John is that its a national security problem. You cant-   and is that its a national security problem. You cant have somebody whos at national security and if you think about it, John, he knows some of my thoughts. He knows what I think about leaders. What happens if he reveals what I think about a certain leader and its not very positive and then I have to deal on behalf of the country? Its going to be very hard. Its going to make the job very hard. He knows other things. And I dont know if we left on the best of terms. I would say probably not. And so you dont like people testifying when they didnt leave on good terms, and that was due to me, not due to him. And so well see what happens. But when you have a national security, you could call it presidential prerogative, you could just call it the way I look at it, I call it national security for national security reasons. Executive privilege, they say.  So, John would certainly fit into that. When youre a national security advisor, like this gentleman is doing a fantastic job, Robert. I just think its very hard and Ive always gotten along. Ive actually gotten along with John Bolton. He didnt get along with other people, a lot of other people. But when he knows my thoughts on certain people and other governments, and were talking about massive trade deals and war and peace and all these different things that we talk about, thats really a very important national security problem. I think having somebody, other people  Mick Mulvaney is probably around here someplace. Id love to have Mick go, but I think that hes really expressed himself very well when he did a Chris Wallace interview. That was a very, very powerful interview. That was a long, tough  Chris is a tough interviewer, a very talented guy. I think its not much he can add. Hes been great.  Ill tell you what I dont like though. Id love to have Mike Pompeo testify, but again, thats a national security problem. But Id love to have Mike Pompeo, but its a national security problem. Id love to have Rick Perry. Rick Perry has asked me, Id love to testify. Please let me testify, because he knows this is all a hoax. He understands it better than most. And Rick Perry would love to testify, but were dealing with national security. Were dealing with one other thing. Our country has been tied up with this hoax from the day I came down the escalator. Weve been fighting it. Ive been fighting it from the day Ive been elected. I would say probably long before. It could be long before I came down the escalator that some people have said that, which is hard to believe  Wait John. Its hard to believe weve been fighting this.  Personally, Id rather go the long route. Its horrible for our country. Our country has to get back to business. We have people that are corrupt, like Adam Schiff, who misquotes  I dont mean misquotes. Makes up a statement. He had no idea that I was going to release the transcript. He never thought Id do that. And for that I thank the president of Ukraine because we got their approval. He had no idea I was going to do that. But these are corrupt people, some of them. And some of them are just playing the political game. But if you look at the poll numbers, my poll numbers are the highest theyve ever been. If you look at the funding numbers, if you look at what the money raised by the Republican party has just set a record. Nobodys ever done this before. Its because of the impeachment hoax. Three? That means six. Six for the family. Go ahead. No, go ahead. Hes a con man. Ready, let me answer that one. I dont know him. Other than hes like a groupie. He shows up at fundraisers. So I dont know anything about him. I watched Rudy. Rudy is a terrific person, great crime fighter, the best mayor in the history of New York City by far. Solved the crime problem in New York. And I think its very unfair the way the media has treated Rudy Giuliani. I will say this. Parnas I dont know other than he probably contributed to the campaign along with tens of thousands of other people. And I mean I was this weekend, I was taking pictures with hundreds of people. They contribute to the Republican party and I stand there and I take pictures and every once in a while Ill look at somebody, I say, Gee, I wonder when that picture is going to be in the New York Times or the Washington Post or on Fox. So its one of those things. I think Rudy is a high quality person. I dont want there to be a conflict. Id love to have Rudy on my team, but he could be a witness at some point if this whole sham continues. I would love to have Rudy on the team. Rudy is on my team, just so you understand, but Id love to have him up there. But it could be that hed have a conflict. It could be. But Rudy Giuliani is somebody that, I think the press has been very unfair to. Greatest mayor in the history of New York. Think of it. And one of the greatest crime fighters of the last hundred years. And he hates to see whats happening because he knows corruption really better than anybody. Okay. Go ahead. So, Ken Starr is a terrific man. I did make that statement because frankly I didnt think that Bill Clinton should have been impeached. And I thought it was terrible. I didnt know Ken Starr, but I didnt think that Bill Clinton should have been impeached. And I was pretty vocal about that. I didnt know Ken, but what I did know is he was very smart. He was very tough. He was very talented. But in a certain way I was sticking up for Bill Clinton. I sort of still feel that way. I mean, what he did was nothing good. There was a lot of lying going on. There were a lot of things, a lot of bad things. Now with me, theres no lying. Theres no nothing. They have nothing. They dont even have a crime. They say this is the only one thats ever been impeached and he didnt commit a crime. I didnt commit a crime. And then you get into high crimes and misdemeanors, but I didnt commit a crime. So no, I have great respect for Ken, but I didnt think, frankly that Bill Clinton shouldve been impeached. Id love to go. Wouldnt that be great? Wouldnt that be beautiful? I dont know. Id sort of love sit right in the front row and stare in their corrupt faces. Id love to do it. I dont know. Dont keep talking because you may convince me to do it. I think they might have a problem. I think they might. And by the way, I think theyve done a really good job. And I think the other side has so lied. I watch the lies from Adam Schiff. Hell stand, hell look at a microphone and hell talk like hes so aggrieved. These two guys, these are major sleazebags. Theyre very dishonest people. Very, very dishonest people. When somebody will make up a statement that I made, when you remember the statement, eight times quid pro quo, eight times, think of it. How can you say eight times? That would mean I was asking somebody eight different times for the same thing. What kind of a conversation would that be? If you asked once, thatd be fine. If you asked twice, thatd be  How can you ask eight times? They would say youre a loony tune. Right? And then he said, I think he finished by saying, Dont call me. Ill call you, that I said that. He made that statement. Dont call me, Ill call you. And he didnt say he made it up.  Now ultimately he had to, in a sense, apologize. He can hardly apologize, but he had to apologize because fortunately we had a tape. We had the transcripts. I am so happy that I had the transcripts because it showed hes a liar and hes a fraud and they continue to just go on and on. But this has happened to me with the Russian hoax. This has happened to me, I called it the witch hunt, greatest witch hunt in American history, and the Mueller report, which exonerated totally. There was no collusion after all that. Two years, there was no collusion. And then what happened to Jill Stein from the Green Party gets called a Russian agent by crooked Hillary and then Tulsi Gabbard. I dont know either of them, but I know theyre not Russian agents. Gets called a Russian agent. This is what these people do. They demean, and the press plays in because the press largely is their partner.  And one thing, if we could straighten out the press in our country, we would have a place that would be so incredible. The press is so dishonest, so corrupt. I read it all the time. Stories. I dont mind bad stories. I deserve bad stories sometimes, but when I do something great or good, let it be written about good. Same thing with other people. The corruption in the media, as I call it the fake news media, is unbelievable. And hopefully everybodys going to learn a lesson. People got Pulitzer Prizes for their coverage of me, and it turned out they were totally wrong. Other people, Sean Hannity, Rushbo, a lot of great people, a lot of great writers, they got it right. They didnt get Pulitzer Prizes, but they got it right. The Russian hoax was a terrible thing. The dossier was a phony deal paid for by Hillary Clinton and the DNC and used in the Pfizer coup. Its totally illegally. No, its a terrible thing that happened. This was a take down attempt at a sitting president of the United States, and we caught them. So lets see what happens. No, I dont see. A very excellent writer, Bob Woodward, I guess hes doing another book on Trump, but this time Ill actually give him an interview. He said, Youre enjoying this, arent you? I said, No, Im not enjoying it. He said, No, you act like youre winning and you won. Youre actually enjoying it. I said, Im not enjoying it. Im doing it because its very important what Im doing. I consider what Ive done here with this whole witch hunt from day one with the insurance policy, with the horrible statements made between Strzok and Page and McCabe and Comey, who lied to Congress and did so many other bad things. He lied and he leaked. When I finish, I think that this is going to go down as one of the greatest things Ive done for our country. These are bad, corrupt people. These are bad people, and very bad for our country. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you."
"Well, thank you very much and thank you Jeanie. It is my profound honor to be the first President in history to attend the March for Life. Were here for a very simple reason, to defend the right of every child born and unborn, to fulfill their God-given potential. For 47 years, Americans of all backgrounds have traveled from across the country to stand for life. And today as President of the United States, I am truly proud to stand with you. I want to welcome tens of thousands. This is a tremendous turnout. Tens of thousands of high school and college students who took long bus rides to be here in our Nations Capitol.  And to make you feel even better, there are tens of thousands of people outside that we passed on the way in. If anybody would like to give up their spot, we can work that out. We have a tremendous group of people outside, thousands and thousands wanting to get in. This is some great success. Young people are the heart of the March for Life and its your generation that is making America the pro-family, pro-life nation. The life movement is led by strong women, amazing faith leaders, and brave students who carry on the legacy of pioneers before us who fought to raise the conscience of our nation and uphold the rights of our citizens.  You embrace mothers with care and compassion. You are powered by prayer and motivated by pure, unselfish love. You are grateful and we are so grateful. These are incredible people. To be joined by Secretary Alex Azar and Kellyanne Conway. Thank you. And thanks also to Senators Mike Lee and James Lankford, who are here. James, Mike. Thank you, fellows. And Representatives, Steve Scalise, Chris Smith, Ralph Abraham, Warren Davidson, Bob Latta, John Joyce, Lloyd Smucker, Brian Fitzpatrick, and Brad Wenstrup. Thank you all. And I have to say, and I look at it, I see it exactly. We have many, many more politicians in the audience. But if you dont mind, I wont introduce them all.  All of us here today understand an eternal truth, every child is a precious and sacred gift from God. Together we must protect, cherish, and defend the dignity and the sanctity of every human life. When we see the image of a baby in the womb, we glimpse the majesty of Gods creation. When we hold a newborn in our arms, we know the endless love that each child brings to a family. When we watch a child grow, we see the splendor that radiates from each human soul. One life changes the world. From my family, and I can tell you I send love and I send great, great love. And from the first day in office, Ive taken historic action to support Americas families and to protect the unborn.  And during my first week in office, I reinstated and expanded the Mexico City policy and we issued a landmark pro-life rule to govern the use of title 10 taxpayer funding. I notified Congress that I would veto any legislation that weakens pro-life policies or that encourages the destruction of human life. At the United Nations, I made clear that global bureaucrats have no business attacking the sovereignty of nations that protect innocent life. Unborn children have never had a stronger defender in the White House. And as the Bible tells us, each person is wonderfully made. Weve taken decisive action to protect the religious liberty. So important. Religious liberty has been under attack all over the world and frankly very strongly attacked in our nation.  You see it better than anyone, but we are stopping it and were taking care of doctors, nurses, teachers and groups like the Little Sisters of the Poor. We are preserving faith-based adoption and to uphold our founding documents. We have confirmed 187 federal judges who apply the Constitution as written, including two phenomenal Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. We are protecting pro-life students right to free speech on college campuses. And if universities want federal taxpayer dollars, then they must uphold your 1st Amendment right to speak your mind. And if they dont, they pay a very big financial penalty, which they will not be willing to pay.  Sadly, the far left is actively working to erase our God-given rights. Shut down faith-based charities, ban religious believers from the public square, and silence Americans who believe in the sanctity of life. They are coming after me because I am fighting for you and we are fighting for those who have no voice and we will win because we know how to win. We all know how to win. We all know how to win. Youve been winning for a long time. Youve been winning for a long time. Together we are the voice for the voiceless. When it comes to abortion, Democrats  And you know this. Youve seen whats happened. Democrats have embraced the most radical and extreme positions taken and seen in this country for years and decades and you could even say for centuries.  Nearly every top Democrat in Congress now supports taxpayer-funded abortion all the way up until the moment of birth. Last year, lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mothers womb right up until delivery. Then we had the case of the Democrat Governor in the state of Virginia, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and we love the Commonwealth of Virginia. But what is going on in Virginia? What is going on? The Governor stated that he would execute a baby after birth. You remember that. Senate Democrats even blocked legislation that would give medical care to babies who survive attempted abortions.  And thats why Ive called on Congress, two of our great senators here, so many of our Congressman here. I called upon them to defend the dignity of life and to pass legislation prohibiting late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in their mothers womb. This year, the March for Life is celebrating the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, which forever enshrined womens rights to vote in the United States and given by the United States Constitution. Such a big event. Today, millions of extraordinary women across America are using the power of their votes to fight for the right and all of their rights as given in the Declaration of Independence, the right to life.  To all the women here today, your devotion and your leadership uplifts our entire nation and we thank you for that. The tens of thousands of Americans gathered today not only stand for life, its really here that they stand for it so proudly together and I want to thank everybody for that. You stand for life each and every day. You provide housing, education, jobs, and medical care to the women that you serve. You find loving families for children in need of a forever home. You host baby showers for expecting moms. You just make it your lifes mission to help spread Gods grace. And to all of the moms here today, we celebrate you and we declare that mothers are heroes. Thats true. Your strength, devotion, and drive is what powers our nation. And because of you, our country has been blessed with amazing souls who have changed the course of human history.  We cannot know what our citizens yet unborn will achieve, the dreams they will imagine, the masterpieces they will create, the discoveries they will make. But we know this, every life brings love into this world. Every child brings joy to a family. Every person is worth protecting. And above all, we know that every human soul is divine and every human life, born and unborn, is made in the holy image of Almighty God. Together we will defend this truth all across our magnificent land. We will set free the dreams of our people and with determined hope, we look forward to all of the blessings that will come from the beauty, talent, purpose, nobility, and grace of every American child. I want to thank you. This is a very special moment. Its so great to represent you. I love you all. And I say with true passion, thank you, God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you all. Thank you."
"Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Today Israel takes a big step towards peace. Young people across the Middle East are ready for a more hopeful future and governments through out the region are realizing that terrorism and Islamic extremism are everyones common enemy. Yesterday I had the pleasure of meeting with both the prime minister of Israel and a man thats working very hard to become the prime minister of Israel in the longest running election of all time, Benny Gantz of the Blue and White party, and both leaders joined me to express their support for this effort, proving that the state of Israel is looking for peace and that peace transcends politics by any measure. Unmeasurable. Thats what they want. On my first trip overseas as president, I visited the Holy Land of Israel. I was deeply moved an amazed by what this small country had achieved in the face of overwhelming odds and never-ending threats. The state of Israel comprises only a minuscule amount of land in the Middle East, and yet it has become a thriving center of democracy and of ancient culture and commerce. Israel is a light unto the world, the hearts and history of our people are woven together. The land of Israel is an ancient home, a sacred place of worship, and a solemn promise to the Jewish people that we will never again repeat historys darkest hour.  During my trip to Israel, I also met with Palestinian President Abbas in Bethlehem. I was saddened by the fate of the Palestinian people. They deserve a far better life, they deserve the chance to achieve their extraordinary potential. Palestinians have been trapped in a cycle of terrorism, poverty, and violence exploited by those seeking to use them as pawns to advance terrorism and extremism.  I returned from my visit determined to find a constructive path and its got to be a very powerful path forward in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. To further this effort, I also met with President Abbas at the White House. Forging peace between Israelis and Palestinians may be the most difficult challenge of all. All prior administrations from President Lyndon Johnson have tried and bitterly failed, but I was not elected to do small things or shy away from big problems.  Its been a long and very arduous process to arrive at this moment. On Sunday I delivered to Prime Minister Netanyahu my vision for peace, prosperity, and a brighter future for Israelis and Palestinians. This vision for peace is fundamentally different from past proposals. In the past, even the most well-intentioned plans were light on factual details and heavy on conceptual frameworks. By contrast, our plan is 80 pages and is the most detailed proposal ever put forward by far. As I have seen throughout my long career as a deal-maker, complex problems require nuanced, fact-based remedies. That is why our proposal provides precise technical solutions to make Israelis, Palestinians, and the region safer and much more prosperous. My vision presents a win-win opportunity for both sides, a realistic two-state solution that resolves the risk of Palestinian statehood to Israels security.  Today Israel has taken a giant step toward peace. Yesterday Prime Minister Netanyahu informed me that he is willing to endorse the vision as the basis for direct negotiations, and I will say, the general also endorsed, and very strongly, with the Palestinians a historic breakthrough. And likewise, we have really a situation having to do with a race that is taking place right now. It will end and we have the support, and its very important to say this, of both parties and almost all people in Israel. They want peace and they want peace badly.  This is the first time Israel has authorized the release of a conceptual map illustrating the territorial compromises its willing to make for the cause of peace and theyve gone a long way. This is an unprecedented and highly significant development. Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for having the courage to take this bold step forward. We have a lot of powerful people in this room, a lot of the people that can help make it work. So thats quite a thunderous  . Thank you very much. Thank you. We will form a joint committee with Israel to convert the conceptual map into a more detailed and calibrated rendering so that recognition can be immediately achieved. We will also work to create a contiguous territory within the future Palestinian state, for when the conditions for statehood are met, including the firm rejection of terrorism.  Under this vision, Jerusalem will remain Israels undivided, very important, undivided capital. But thats no big deal because Ive already done that for you. Weve already done that, but thats okay. Its going to remain that way and the United States will recognize Israeli sovereignty over the territory that my vision provides to be part of the state of Israel, very important. And crucially, the proposed transition to a two-state solution will present no incremental security risk to the state of Israel whatsoever. We will not allow a return to the days of bloodshed, bus bombings, nightclub attacks, and relentless terror. Wont be allowed. Peace requires compromise, but we will never ask Israel to compromise its security. Cant do that.  As everyone knows, I have done a lot for Israel, moving the United States embassy to Jerusalem, recognizing the Golan Heights, and frankly, perhaps most importantly, getting out of the terrible Iran nuclear deal. There is a lot of spirit in this room. Its true. You dont see it often. You dont see it often. Therefore, it is only reasonable that I have to do a lot for the Palestinians or it just wouldnt be fair. Dont clap for that but its true. It wouldnt be fair. I want this deal to be a great deal for the Palestinians. It has to be.  Todays agreement is a historic opportunity for the Palestinians to finally achieve an independent state of their very own. After 70 years of little progress, this could be the last opportunity they will ever have, and last for a lot of reasons. Well never have a team like we have right now. We have a team of people that love the United States, and they love Israel, and theyre very smart, and very, very committed, from your ambassador, David Friedman to Jason and Avi and Jared, and they are all great deal makers and they also understand the other side and they want the other side to do well, because thats the sign of a great deal and they understand that.  And I just appreciate all the hard work youve put in and so many of your other friends. And, of course, our great Secretary of state, Mike Pompeo. Oh, thats impressive. That was very impressive, Mike. That reporter couldnt have done too good a job on you yesterday. I think you did a good job on her actually. Thats good. Thank you, Mike. Great, are you running for Senate? I guess the answer is no after that. They all want him to. Kansas, great state. They want him to, but youre doing a great job. Dont move.  The Palestinian people have grown distrustful after years of unfulfilled promises, so true, yet I know they are ready to escape their tragic past and realize a great destiny. But we must break free of yesterdays failed approaches. This map will more than double the Palestinian territory and provide a Palestinian capital in eastern Jerusalem where America will proudly open an embassy. No Palestinians or Israelis will be uprooted from their homes. Israel will work closely with a wonderful person, a wonderful man, the King of Jordan, to ensure that the status quo of the Temple Mount is preserved and strong measures are taken to ensure that all Muslims who wish to visit peacefully and pray at the Al-Aqsa Mosque will be able to do so. This is a major statement. This is of major importance.  And at the same time, our vision will deliver a massive commercial investment of $50 billion into the new Palestinian state. You have many, many countries that want to partake in this, and many of them are surrounding. They all want this to happen. Virtually every one of them want this to happen. And I think, Bibi, you know that very well. Youre going to have tremendous support from your neighbors and beyond your neighbors.  Over the next 10 years, if executed well, 1 million great new Palestinian jobs will be created. Their poverty rate will be cut in half. And their poverty rate is unacceptable now and only getting worse. Their GDP will double and triple and much-needed hope, joy, opportunity, and prosperity will finally arrive for the Palestinian people. Our vision will end the cycle of Palestinian dependency upon charity and foreign aid. They will be doing phenomenally all by themselves. They are a very, very capable people. And we will help by empowering the Palestinians to thrive on their own. Palestinians will be able to seize the new future with dignity, self-sufficiency, and national pride.  To ensure a successful Palestinian state, we are asking the Palestinians to meet the challenges of peaceful co-existence. This includes adopting basic laws enshrining human rights, protecting against financial  Laws, enshrining human rights. Protecting against financial and political corruption, stopping the malign activities of Hamas, Islamic jihad and other enemies of peace. Ending the incitement of hatred against Israel, so important, and permanently halting the financial compensation to terrorists.  And perhaps most importantly, my vision gives the Palestinians the time needed to rise up and meet the challenges of statehood. I sent a letter today to President Abbas. I explained to him that the territory allocated for his new state will remain open and undeveloped for a period of four years.  During this time, Palestinians can use all appropriate deliberation to study the deal, negotiate with Israel, achieve the criteria for statehood, and become a truly independent and wonderful state. President Abbas, I want you to know that if you choose the path to peace, America and many other countries we will be there. We will be there to help you in so many different ways and we will be there every step of the way. We will be there to help.  In other words, for the first time in many, many decades, I can say it will work. Its going to work. If they do this, it will work. Your response to this historic opportunity will show the world to what extent you are ready to lead the Palestinian people to statehood. The Middle East is changing rapidly. On my first trip aboard as President, I traveled to Saudi Arabia to discuss our shared priorities with the 54 leaders of the Muslim and Arab countries.  I made clear that all civilized nations share the same goals, stamping out extremism, creating opportunity for the regions youth, and we have to take care of the regions youth. The regions youth is growing up with no hope. We have to take care of the regions youth and existing in harmony with ones neighbors. Since that time, immense progress has been made. A growing number of nations have taken strong stands against terrorism and radicalization. You see it. Thanks to the courage of US forces the ISIS territorial caliphate, 100%; not 95% not 99, or any other percent, 100% of their caliphate, ISIS is destroyed. And its Savage leader Al-Baghdadi is now dead.  And I want to thank, we have some our great senators and congressmen and women here and I want to thank you all for the tremendous help. Thank you very much. Jim. Ted, everybody. Stew. Our leader, thank you. Mark, thank you. Great people. These are great people. They work so hard and they love this country.  The Iranian regime is isolated and weakened greatly. We eliminated Qasem Soleimani the worlds top terrorist. And as you know, he was with the head of Hezbollah. I dont think they were up to anything good. I dont think so. He ran an organization called Jerusalem Liberation Forces and used his hatred, total severe hatred of Israel as a rallying cry to divert attention from the incompetence and shortcomings of his government.  He falsely promoted the sinister notion that a free Jerusalem, we must really be at war with Israel. So to have it free, we have to be at war with Israel and he said it very, very powerfully. In fact, its been in this false war that Israel really the enemies of peace have used it. They just used it as an excuse to divide and totally oppress the Middle East. In truth, Jerusalem is liberated.  Jerusalem is a safe, open, democratic city that welcomes people of all faiths and all places. It is time for the Muslim world to fix the mistake it made in 1948 when it chose to attack instead of recognize the new state of Israel. Its time. Since then, the amount of needless bloodshed and all squandered opportunities, so many squandered opportunities in the name of senseless causes is beyond measure. The Palestinians have been the primary pawn in this regional adventurism and its time for this sad chapter in history to end, end quickly, end now. Its never too late for courageous leaders to set a new course to pursue what is right, to change the future, only for the better.  America is prepared to work with all parties on our vision. So many other countries are willing, ready, and able to work with us. Ive spoken to many of them. I cannot believe the amount of support this morning has. I cannot believe it. I have been called by leaders. Boris called so many called and theyre all saying whatever we can do to help, they all want to see it happen.  But America cannot care more about peace than the stakeholders in the region. There are many Muslims who never visited Al-Aqsa and many Christians and Jews who never visited the Holy sites in the West bank described so vividly in the Bible. My vision will change that. Our majestic biblical heritage will be able to live, breathe, and flourish in modern times. All humanity should be able to enjoy the glories of the Holy land. This part of the world is forever connected to the human soul and the human spirit. These ancient lands should not be symbols of conflict, but eternal symbols of peace.  Thank you again for all of the work youve all done and all of these incredible honored guests for being here and in particular, I want to thank Prime Minister Netanyahu. I also want to thank Oman Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates for the incredible work theyve done helping us with so much and sending their ambassadors to be with us today. Thank you very much for being here. Yes . Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please give our regards. Americas partnerships in the region have never been greater, and our alliance with the state of Israel has never ever been stronger than it is today.  Together we can bring about a new dawn in the Middle East. And I would now, again, just like to thank everybody and a very special group of people, an incredible group of people. So many have been with us on this journey right from the beginning and were getting there. They say its the toughest deal ever to make in business when I have a tough deal, people would say this is tougher than the Israelis and the Palestinians. They used it as an excuse, meaning that was always the standard. Actually, theres nothing tougher than this one, but we have to get it done. We have an obligation to humanity to get it done.  So I would now like to introduce the prime minister of Israel whos worked so hard on this. Benjamin Netanyahu, thank you."
"Well, thank you very much. I am working very hard for you, I will tell you. And sometimes you dont make it easy, and I certainly dont make it easy on you. I will continue that tradition if I might this morning. And Arthur, I dont know if I agree with you. But I dont if Arthurs going to like what Im going to say. But I loved listening to you, it was really great. Thank you very much. And thank you, Congressman, for the great job youve been doing and the relationship and the help. Youre a warrior. Thank you very much. And Kevin, youre a warrior, thank you. The job youve done is incredible. It wasnt supposed to be that way. A lot of extra work, unnecessary work.  Its wonderful to be with the thousands of religious believers for the 68th Annual National Prayer Breakfast. I have been here from the first one, where I had the privilege of being asked. Ive been with you for a long time before that. Weve made tremendous progress, tremendous progress. You know what weve done. I dont think anybodys done more than all of us together during these last three years, and its been my honor.  But this morning we come together as one nation, blessed to live in freedom and grateful to worship in peace. As everybody knows, my family, our great country and your President, have been put through a terrible ordeal by some very dishonest and corrupt people. They have done everything possible to destroy us. And by so doing, very badly hurt our nation. They know what they are doing is wrong, but they put themselves far ahead of our great country.  Weeks ago and again, yesterday, courageous Republican politicians and leaders had the wisdom, fortitude and strength to do what everyone knows was right. I dont like people who use their faith as justification for doing what they know is wrong. Nor do I like people who say I pray for you, when they know that thats not so.  So many people have been hurt, and we cant let that go on. Ill be discussing that a little bit later at the White House. Were joined today by two people whose faith inspires us all. Our amazing, wonderful friend, Vice President Mike Pence and his wonderful wife, Karen. Thank you to all of our great political leaders out there. So many that Ive been working with so hard over the last three years, and weve accomplished so much. And to members of my Cabinet in attendance, Secretary Mike Pompeo, Mark Esper, David Bernhardt, Gene Scalia, Alex Azar, Ben Carson, Dan Brouillette, Betsy DeVos, Robert Wilkie, and Administrator, Jovita Carranza.  Joining us for this cherished tradition are a lot of friends in the audience. Many really have become friends. They are political leaders. Theyve become great friends. Thats all I get to meet anymore. That and the enemies and the allies, and we have them all. We have allies, we have enemies. Sometimes the allies are enemies, but we just dont know it. But were changing all that. But thank you all, and thank you all for being here. I also want to welcome foreign dignitaries from more than 140 countries, thats something. Thats something.  Everyone here today is united by your shared conviction. We know that our nation is stronger, our future is brighter, and our joy is greater when we turn to God and ask him to shed his grace on our lives. On Tuesday, I addressed Congress on the State of the Union and the great American comeback. Thats what it is.  Our country has never done better than it is doing right now. Our economy is the strongest it has ever been. For those of you that are interested in stocks, it looks like the stock market will be way up again today. According to the latest Gallup poll that just came out a little while ago, a few minutes ago, American satisfaction is at the highest level ever recorded. Can you imagine? And thats from Gallup, no friend of mine. 90% of Americans say they are satisfied with their personal lives. How about that, isnt that something? It just came out today. They must have known I was going to be here.  In everything we do, we are creating a culture that protects freedom and that includes religious freedom. As I said on Tuesday in the House chamber, in America, we dont punish prayer. We dont tear down crosses. We dont band symbols of faith. We dont muzzle preachers. We dont muzzle pastors. In America, we celebrate faith. We cherish religion. We lift our voices in prayer, and we raise our sights to the glory of God.  So much of the greatness we have achieved, the mysteries weve unlocked and the wonders weve built, the challenges weve met, and the incredible heights that weve reached has come from the faith of our families and the prayers of our people. Before America declared independence, patriots in all 13 colonies came together in days of fasting and prayer. In the bitter cold of Valley Forge, Washington and his men had no food, no supplies, and very little chance of victory. Reminded me a little bit of 2016, we had very little chance of victory, except for the people in this room and some others believed we were going to win. I believed we were going to win. But what they did was have an unwavering belief that God was with them. I believed that too.  God is with the people in this room. Before a single skyscraper rose up in New York City, thousands of poor American families donated all they could to build the magnificent St. Patricks Cathedral. When Buzz Aldrin landed on the moon, he said, Houston, I would like to request a few moments of silence. Then he read from the Bible. At every stage, our nations long march for civil rights was inspired, sustained and uplifted by faith, prayer and devotion of religious believers. To protect faith communities, I have taken historic action to defend religious liberty, including the constitutional right to pray in public schools.  We can also talk about the Johnson Amendment. We can talk about Mexico City policy. Weve done a lot. But I also recently took executive action to stop taxpayer dollars from going to colleges and universities that spread the poison of antisemitism and bad things about Christianity. We are upholding the sanctity of life, sanctity of life. And we are doing that like nobody has ever done it before from this position. You better get out and vote on November 3rd, because you have a lot of people out there that arent liking what were doing. And were pursuing medical breakthroughs to save premature babies, because every child is a sacred gift from God.  Together, we are building the worlds most prosperous and inclusive society. We are lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. We are bringing hope to forgotten communities, and more Americans are working today. 160 million, a little bit short, just a little bit. 160 million, weve never been even close than ever before. Think of it. More Americans are working today, almost 160 million than ever before. Our unemployment numbers are the best in the history of our country. A more specific number and numbers that you hear me say, if you listen. African-American, Asian-American, Hispanic-American The best unemployment numbers in the history of our country. Women, best in 71 years. Sorry, well have you there soon. Soon it will be assured. I have to apologize to the women, its only 71 years. But the best unemployment numbers, we have.  Were doing things that nobody thought possible. Were setting records that nobody thought achievable. And to give former prisoners a second chance at life, which so many people in this room have worked on for so long. We passed criminal justice reform into law, and I signed it nine months ago. And its proving more and more that America is indeed a nation that believes in redemption. Whats happened with prisoners is a miracle. Prisoners would come out, nobody would give them a job. And oftentimes, most of the time, almost all of the time, theyd go back into prison. Theyd get caught doing something bad. They had no money, they had no hope, they had no job. Now theyre coming out into a booming economy, and employers are hiring them. And to a certain extent, maybe because theyre having a hard time getting people. The first time in our countrys history actually, were running out of people.  We have plants moving in by the thousands. We have car companies coming from Japan and from Germany, from lots of other places, and we need people. Employers are hiring prisoners and they would have never done it except for what weve done with criminal justice reform, but even before that because the economy has become so powerful. These prisoners have done an incredible job. The employers are saying, Why didnt I do this 20 years ago? So its an incredible thing whats happening to people that are given a second chance and sometimes a third chance, in all fairness. Its something that everybody in this room should be very proud about, because youve always felt that way long before it was fashionable. So I want to thank you for that.  As we revive our economy, we are also renewing our national spirit. Today, we proudly proclaim that faith is alive and well and thriving in America, and were going to keep it that way. Nobody will have it changed. It wont happen. As long as Im here, it will never ever happen. Something which wasnt done nearly enough, I could almost say wasnt done at all. We are standing up for persecuted Christians and religious minorities all around the world like nobody has ever done.  Last year at the United Nations, I was honored to be the first President to host a meeting of religious freedom. It was based all on religious freedom. That was the first meeting of its kind ever held at the United Nations. There, I called upon all nations to combat the terrible injustice of religious persecution, and people listened. Countries that we give billions of dollars to, they listened because they had to listen. Its amazing how that works, isnt it? And nobody ever played that game before. Weeks ago, a 21-year-old woman who goes by the name of Mary, was seized and imprisoned in Iran because she converted to Christianity and shared the gospel with others. In Venezuela, the dictator, Maduro, has arrested church leaders. At the State of the Union, I was honored to host the true and legitimate president of Venezuela, Juan Guaid. Good man. I told him that all Americans stand with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom.  Yesterday, our administration launched the International Religious Freedom Alliance, the first ever alliance devoted to promoting religious liberty. It was something, really something. More than 25 countries have already joined our campaign. I want to thank Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, along with Ambassador Sam Brownback, who are both here this morning, for leading this historic initiative. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Thank you. All of us here today reaffirm these timeless truths. Faith keeps us free. Prayer makes us strong, and God alone is the author of life and the giver of grace.  With us this morning is a pastor who embodies the miracle of faith and the power of prayer, Reverend Gerald Toussaint, from Louisiana. Reverend Toussaint is an army veteran, a truck driver, and a pastor. He leads the same church that his father led, Mount Pleasant Baptist Church, which has been a pillar of the community for more than 140 years. Last year, Mount Pleasant was one of three African-American churches in Louisiana that was destroyed in fires set by a wicked, hate-filled arsonist. Yet in the wake of such shocking evil, America witnessed the unshakable unity, devotion, and spirit of Reverend Toussaint and his entire highly spirited, beautiful congregation. Families quickly came together in prayer. Soon, people from all across Louisiana came to help any way they could. Americans in all 50 states and 20 different countries heard about it, and they donated more than $2 million to help rebuild Mount Pleasant and the other two churches that were burnt. Where is he?  On Easter Sunday, just days after he lost his church, Reverend Toussaint preached about what it all meant. What does it mean? The Easter season he said, is a fitting metaphor for recent events. It was dark the day that Jesus was crucified, it was dark at night when they burned our church. What has happened since is like a resurrection. Old things are gone, but its going to be a brand new start and its going to be better than everybody, Reverend. Better than ever, fantastic. Today, just 10 months later, the ground is cleared. Careful plans have been made, and theyre beautiful plans. Construction is about to begin on the new and very, very magnificent Mount Pleasant Church. Congratulations.  You know, the Reverend says that, Were rebuilding because thats what Jesus does. He rebuilds. He lives and he breathes, thats what he does. He wants it to be rebuilt. It was torn apart, but its being rebuilt again, and Ill bet you it will indeed be bigger, better and nicer than before. What do you think, Reverend, yes? Its going to have your mark on it. It did have, and now it have even great. And your father is looking down on you right now and hes very, very proud of the job you have done. Thank you very much. Very much inspire us, Reverend. Thank you.  Well, I want to just thank everybody. This has been very special. Tell your congregation and all of your people that we have 350 million people in our country. Theyre proud Americans and they respect what were doing, even those that you dont think so much like us, respect us, want to be with us. Theyre respecting our fight, and we are in a fight. Religion in this country and religion all over the world, certain religions in particular, are under siege. We wont let that happen. We are going to protect our religions. We are going to protect Christianity. We are going to protect our great ministers and pastors and rabbis, and all of the people that we so cherish and that we so respect.  America is eternally in the debt of our nations African-American churches all throughout this country. Thats why its so fitting and so Its one of the reasons we chose this particular church in Louisiana. For generations, theyve bravely fought for justice and lifted up the conscience of our nation, and we are grateful beyond any measure. But I can say that going beyond that, were grateful to the people in this room for the love they show to religion. Not one religion, but many religions. They are brave, they are brilliant, they are fighters. They like people, and sometimes they hate people. I am sorry, I apologize. I am trying to learn. Its not easy. Its not easy.  When they impeach you for nothing, then youre supposed to like them. Its not easy, folks. I do my best. But Ill tell you what we are doing. Were restoring hope and spreading faith. Were helping citizens of every background take part in the great rebuilding of our nation. Were declaring that America will always shine as a land of liberty and light unto all nations of the world. We want every nation to look up to us like they are right now. We were not a respected nation just a few years ago, we had lost our way. Our country is respected again by everybody.  This morning, let us ask Father in Heaven to guide our steps, protect our children, and bless our families. And with all of our heart, let us forever embrace the eternal truth that every child is made equal by the hand of almighty God. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you."
"Well, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Well thank you very much, everybody. Wow. Weve all been through a lot together, and we probably deserve that hand for all of us because its been a very unfair situation. I invited some of our very good friends, and we have limited room, but everybody wanted to come. We kept it down to a minimum. And believe it or not, this is a minimum. But a tremendous thing was done over the last number of months. But really if you go back to it over the last number of years, we had the witch hunt. It started from the day we came down the elevator, myself and our future first lady whos with us right now. Thank you Melania.  And it never really stopped. Wed been going through this now for over three years. It was evil. It was corrupt. It was dirty cops. It was leakers and liars. And this should never ever happen to another president, ever. I dont know that other presidents would have been able to take it. Some people said no, they wouldnt have, but I can tell you at a minimum you have to focus on this because it can get away very quickly. No matter who you have with you, it can get away very quickly. It was a disgrace. Had I not fired James Comey, who was a disaster by the way, its possible I wouldnt even be standing here right now. We caught him in the act. Dirty cops, bad people.  If this happened to president Obama, a lot of people would have been in jail for a long time already, many, many years. I want to start by thanking some of, and I call them friends because you develop friendships and relationships when youre in battle and war much more so than, gee, lets have a normal situation. With all that weve gone through, weve done I think more than any president and administration. And really I say for the most part, Republican congressmen, congresswomen and Republican senators, weve done more than any administration in the first few years. You look at all of the things weve done.   administration in the first few years. You look at all of the things weve done. I watched this morning as they tried to take credit for the stock market from Think of that. Let me tell you, if we didnt win, the stock market would have crashed, and the market was going up a lot before the election because it was looking like we had a good chance to win, and then went up tremendously from the time we won the election until the time we took office, which was November 8th of January 20th. Thats our credit. Thats all our credit, and leading up to that point was our credit because there was hope, and one of the reasons the stock markets gone up so much in the last few days is people think were doing so well. They liked the State of the Union speech.  It really is. Its a true honor to give it, and making the State of the Union speech, I was with some people that have been around. Theyd been all over the world, and one of them said highly sophisticated person said, No matter where you go in the world, doesnt make any difference. There is nothing like what I witnessed tonight, the beauty, the majesty of the chamber, the power of the United States, the power of the people in this room, really, an amazing  I dont think there is anything like that anywhere in the world. You can go to any other country, you can go to any other location, any other place, its the beauty of everything. Its what it represents and how it represents our country.  I want to start by introducing some of the people that are here. I know some are going to be left out, but they work so hard, and this is really not a news conference. Its not a speech. Its not anything. Its just were sort of Its a celebration because we have something that just worked out. I mean, it worked out. We went through hell unfairly, did nothing wrong, did nothing wrong. Ive done things wrong in my life, I will admit. Not purposely, but Ive done things wrong. But this is what the end result is.  . You can take that home, honey. Maybe well frame it. Its the only good headline Ive ever had in the Washington Post, I tell you, but every paper is the same. Does anybody have those papers? Does anybody have them because theyre really like that, so I appreciate that.  But some of the people here have been incredible warriors. Theyre warriors, and theres nothing from a legal standpoint. This is a political thing, and every time Id say, This is unfair, lets go to court, they say, Sir, you cant go to court. This is politics. We were treated unbelievably unfairly. You have to understand, we first went through Russia, Russia, Russia. It was all bullshit. We then went through The Mueller Report, and they should have come back one day later. They didnt. They came back two years later after lives were ruined, after people went bankrupt, after people lost all their money. People came to Washington to help other people, bright-eyed and bushy-tail, they say, they came one or two or three people in particular, but many people.  We had a rough campaign. It was nasty. It was one of the nastiest, they say. They say Andrew Jackson was always the nastiest campaign. They actually said we topped it. It was a nasty both in the primaries and in the election, but you see, we thought after the election would stop, but it didnt stop. It just started, and tremendous corruption. Tremendous corruption. We had a campaign. Little did we know, we were running against some very, very bad and evil people with fake dossiers, with all of these horrible dirty cops that took these dossiers and did bad things. They knew all about it.  The FISA courts should be ashamed of themselves. Its a very tough thing. Then we ended up winning on Russia, Russia, Russia. It should have taken the one day, as I said, and it took years. Then Bob Mueller testified. That didnt work out so well for the other side, but they should have said that first week because it came out. Is that right, Jim Jordan? They knew in the first two days, actually, Devin, is that right, two days they knew that we were totally innocent, but they kept it going. Mark. They kept it going forever because they wanted to inflict political pain on somebody that had just won an election that to a lot of people were surprised.  I mean, we had polls that said we were going to win. We had Los Angeles Times, and a few papers actually said it was were going to win, but it was going to be close. We did win. It was one of the greatest wins of all time. They said, Okay, he won. I wrote this down because that was where a thing called the insurance policy to me, when I saw the insurance policy and that was done long before the election. That was done when they thought that Hillary Clinton was going to win.  By the way, Hillary Clinton and the DNC paid for, millions, millions of dollars, the fake dossier, and now, Christopher Steele admits its a fake because he got sued by rich people. I should have sued him too, but when youre president, people dont like suing. I want to thank my legal team by the way, not for that advice, but for other advice. Pat, Jay. Pat. You guys, stand up, please. Great job.  Right at the beginning, they said, Sir, you have nothing to worry about. All of the facts are on your side. I said, You dont understand. That doesnt matter. That doesnt matter, and that was really true. They made up facts. A corrupt politician named Adam Schiff made up my statement to the Ukrainian president. He brought it out of thin air, just made it up. They say hes a screenwriter, a failed screenwriter. He tried to go unfortunately, he went into politics after that.  Remember he said the statement, which is a mob statement, Dont call me. Ill call you. I didnt say that. Fortunately, for all of us here today and for our country, we had transcripts. We had transcribers, professional transcribers. Then they said, Oh, well, maybe the transcription is not correct, but Lieutenant Colonel Vindman and his twin brother, we had some people that really amazing, but we did everything. We said, Whats wrong with it? Well, they didnt add this word or that  it didnt matter.  I said, Add it. Theyre probably wrong, but add it. Now everyone agrees that they were perfectly accurate. When you read those transcripts, Tim Scott, I dont know if Tims here, but he said, Sir, he was the first one to call me, Sir. I read the transcript. You did nothing wrong, and Mitch, he stayed there right from the beginning. He never changed. Mitch McConnell, I want to tell you, you did a fantastic job. Somebody said, Mitch is quiet, and I said, Hes not quiet. Hes not quiet, but he doesnt want people to know him. They said, Is Mitch smart? I said, Well, lets put it this way. For many, many years, a lot of very smart, bad in many cases, sometimes good, but people have been trying to take his place, and to the best of my knowledge, Ive never even heard the subject come up because theyd been wiped out so fast.  This guy is great, and I appreciate it. Mitch, and hes also given us 191 now, 191 federal judges, two Supreme Court judges. Were up to 191. Great guy. Great guy. Hes a tough guy to read. Im good at reading people. Tough guy to read Id call him. My wife would say, Howd you do with Mitch? I dont know. Thats what makes him good, when you can read somebody. Fantastic job.  He understood this was crooked politics. This was crooked politics. How about all these people? Theyre running for office. Theyre saying the worst things about me, like eight senators on the Democrat side, most of them go wiped out. They got their 1% or less. Most of them got less. They decided to I had to go home. Lets go back to California. Lets go back to, wherever they came from. Lets go back to New York, how about that one. Our New York Senator Gillibrand, Lets go back to New York, after they get nothing, and then they take an oath that they will be fair, that they will be all of the different things. Then they had to sign. Theyre not fair.  But heres the beauty: so we have four left. Theyre saying the most horrendous things about me. Its okay, its politics. Then theyre supposed to vote on me. Theyre trying to replace me, and then theyre supposed to be voting. I think its, I mean, I think its incredible, but so Mitch, I want to thank you very much. Incredible. You have some of your folks here. Theyre incredible people, and theyve been right from the beginning. Again, youre out of session, unfortunately I didnt I only told these folks, Lets do this today.  We did a prayer breakfast this morning, and I thought that was really good. In fact, that was so good, it might wipe this out, but by the end, by the time we finish this, well wipe that one out, those statements. I had Nancy Polosi sitting four seats away, and Im saying things that a lot of people wouldnt have said, but I meant every word of it. But we have some of the folks that are going to be leaving right after this, and they work hard and they did work hard, Bill Cassidy, senator, stand up, Bill. What a guy.  Great man. When I need to know about health insurance and preexisting conditions and individual mandates, I call Bill or I called Barrasso. We got those two guys. They know more than anybody. A man who just became a Senate, hes a little bit like me. We have a couple of them, very successful guy in business and he said, What the hell? Ill run for the Senate from Indiana, and he ran, and I saw him on television destroying his opponent in a debate. I said, This guy could win, and I got behind him, and Mike Braun, you have done some great job. Thank you very much. Tough. Tough. Thank you.  A man who got James Comey to choke, and he was just talking in his regular voice. Hes the roughest man. Hes actually a unbelievable, and I appreciate the letter you sent me today. I just got it. But hes got this voice that scares people. People from Iowa can be very tough. Were doing very well in Iowa, but Ill tell you, Chuck Grassley, hes looking to call me, Well, you tell me, what did you say? Now, he wasnt being rough. That was just the way he talked, and that was when Comey, I think that was when Comey announced that he was leaking, lying and everything else. Hed choked because he never heard anybody talk like that. You should have gotten? I wish you got angry. You could have gotten the whole ballgame. He would have said, I give up. Chuck Grassley is an incredible guy.  And a man who, he was running against a tough smart campaigner. We learned that how good she was. She was a great campaigner. In fact, by the end of the campaign, she was actually, I thought she was more for me than you were Josh. I was worried. I saw red. She was saying the greatest things about me. You know who Im talking about. I went to a great place, Missouri, and I said, Who do you have to beat her? They said, Well, we have four people. I said, Let me see them. I got an interview  Can you imagine, Im interviewing people for the United States Senate. This is what I do. Where have I gone? But I love it. I love it because were getting great people.  The first one I met was Josh Hawley. After about 10 minutes, I said to the people, Dont show me anybody else. This is the guy. He was the Attorney General, did a phenomenal job in the state, highly respected, and Claire McCaskill. The theory was you couldnt beat her. Great campaigner. Remember the last campaign, she was going to be taken out. She was always going to be taken out, and she wins, and people say, How did that happen? Didnt happen with him, but she got so friendly toward me. In fact, one of the ads I still have, Im putting it in the archives as one of the best ads Ive ever read. She tried to convince people that we were best friends, but Josh ended up winning by five or six points.  You were unbelievable. You were tough, and you are something. One of the greatest supporters on the impeachment hoax was Josh Hawley. He was incensed actually. I watched him. He was incensed at what they were doing and what they were saying. Those were the ones I had some that said, I wish you didnt make the call, and thats okay. If they need that, its incorrect. Its totally incorrect.  Then you have some that used religion as a crutch. They never used it before. An article written today, never heard him use it before, but today, its one of those things, but its a failed presidential candidate, so things can happen when you fail so badly running for president. But Josh Hawley, I want to thank you. You were right from the beginning. Man, did I make a good choice. Josh. Thank you, Josh. Tremendous future.  A man who is brilliant and who actually was deceived to an extent, comes from a great state, Utah, where my poll numbers have gone through the roof, and one of the senators poll numbers, and not this one, went down big. You saw that. You saw that, Mike? But Mike Lee is a brilliant guy. Hes difficult. Whenever I sign bills We do sign a lot of legislation thats, its big, and its powerful, but its sort of everybody has to approve it. I see 99 to 1. 99 to 1. I say, Dont tell me whos the one. Is it Mike? Yes.  He always has a good reason for it too, by the way. But he is. Hes incredible. Right at the beginning, he knew we were right, Mike. I appreciate it very much. He just fantastic, and say hello to the people of Utah, and tell them Im sorry about Mitt Romney. Im sorry. We can say that Mike Lee is by far the most popular senator from the state, but youve done a fantastic job, Mike, in many ways, in many ways.  A young woman who I didnt know at all, but shes been so supportive, and Ive had great support from other people in that state. Shes been so supportive, and shes been downright nasty and mean about the unfairness to the president, and Kelly Loeffler, I appreciate very much. Thank you. . She saw it very early on.  We have I dont know if we have other senators here, but weve got a hell of a lot of congressmen. Ill go over them quickly, but they have also been a It helped when we won 197 to nothing. Thats got to be a first, Kevin, right? Is that a first? The Republicans have this image. See, I say Democrats are lousy politicians because they have lousy policy, open borders, sanctuary cities. They have horrible policy. Who the hell can win? Oh, their new policys raise taxes. They want to raise taxes.  All my life, I was into politics, but Id say if youre a politician, you want to say, Were going to lower taxes. They want to raise taxes, so they have open borders, sanctuary cities, raise everybodys taxes. Get rid of everybodys health care, 180 million people in the United States, and theyre really happy, and were going to give you a healthcare thats going to cost more money than the country could make in 30 years if it really does well. Thats one year.  Ive always said theyre lousy politicians, but they do two things. Theyre vicious and mean, vicious. These people are vicious. Adam Schiff is a vicious, horrible person. Nancy Pelosi is a horrible person, and she wanted to impeach a long time ago when she said, I pray for the president. I pray for the  She doesnt pray. She may pray, but she prays for the opposite, but I doubt she prays at all. These are vicious people, but they do two things: They stick together Historically. Im not talking now. They stick together like glue. Thats how they impeached because they had whatever the numbers, 220 people, so they dont lose anybody. Theyll be able to impeach anybody.  You could be George Washington. You could have just won the war, and they say, Lets get them out of office, and they stuck together, and theyre vicious as hell. Theyll probably come back for more, but maybe not because the Republican partys poll numbers, Mitch, have now gone up more than any time I think since 2004, 2005, and you know what happened then, but in normal times, decades you would call it. That was a little unusual time. It was for a very short period. The Republicans partys poll numbers and Donald Trumps poll numbers are the highest Ive ever had them, so maybe they wont.  Its no way to get your poll numbers up. Its not worth it because from my familys standpoint, its been very unfair for my family. Its been very unfair to the country. Think of it, a phone call, a very good phone call. I know bad phone calls. This is a phone call where many people I think Mike Pompeo was probably on the call. Wheres Mike? Mike Pompeo was on the call, and many people were on the call. I know that many people They even have apprenti. Bringing up an old favorite word of mine, the apprentice, they have apprenti, they have people on these calls. I know there are many when I speak to the head of a nation, and they have many people on. I mean, all of a sudden, do you think they just in the case of Ukraine, hes a new president. Seems like a very nice person, by the way. His whole thing was corruption. Hes going to stop corruption.  We even have a treaty, 2001, 1999. Its a treaty, signed treaty that we will work together to root out corruption in the Ukraine. I probably have a legal obligation, Mr. Attorney, to report corruption, but they dont think its corrupt when a son that made no money, that got thrown out of the military, that had no money at all is working for $3 million up front, 83,000 a month, and thats only Ukraine. Then goes to China, picks up $1.5 billion dollars. Then goes to Romania, I hear, and many other countries. They think thats okay because if it is Is Ivanka in the audience? Is Ivanka here? Boy, my kids could make a fortune. They could make a fortune. Its corrupt, but its not even that. Its just general corruption. The other thing thats mentioned in the call and something that Ive told Mike Pence, our great vice president I would tell him all the time, and I told him when he went on the trip because he was over there. He never mentioned anything about this when you had your meeting. Its a terrible thing, but I tell Mike. I said, Mike, were giving them money, and youre always talking about that because we have our country to build, we have our cities to build and our roads to fix, but were giving them money. Tell me, why isnt Germany paying money? Why isnt France? Why isnt United Kingdom paying money? Why arent they paying money? Why are we paying the money?  Is that a correct statement, Mike? I say, Find out what the hells going on, and I told that to all of my people, OMB. I said, asked a question, How much is Germany paying? Why isnt Germany paying? Why is the United States always the sucker? Because were a bunch of suckers. But thats turning around fast, but it makes it harder when stuff like this happens because you want to focus, and you want to focus perfectly.  Think what we could have done if the same energy was put into infrastructure, prescription drug prices. Think of what we could have done. Im now talking both sides. Think of what we could have done if we had the same genius because its genius. I will say its genius on the other side, maybe even more so because they took nothing and brought me to a final vote of impeachment. Thats a very ugly word to me. Its a very dark word. Very ugly. They took nothing. They took a phone call that was a totally appropriate call I call it a perfect call because it was and they brought me to the final stages of impeachment, but now we have that gorgeous word. I never thought a word would sound so good. Its called total acquittal. Total acquittal.  So I want to, if I could real fast, just introduce a few of the people. I have to start with Kevin. Man, did you do a job. Lucky youre there. Lucky youre there because it wouldnt have worked out. If you dont have the right people Ill tell you, Kevin McCarthy has done an incredible job.  stand up.  He loves his job, and he loves his country. Tell you what, Mitch and Kevin, they love what they do. Now, Mitch wouldnt even tell you he liked it. Say, Mitch, do you like it? I dont know. Hes the greatest poker player, right? Kevin was, I love it, and I will say that youre going to be speaker of the house because of this impeachment hoax. I really believe it. I really believe it, and Im going to work hard on it. Im going to try and get out to those Trump areas that we won by a lot.  In 18, we didnt win. We just want two seats in North Carolina, two wonderful seats in North Carolina that were not supposed to be won, but I went, and I made speeches. We had rallies, and we did a great job, and we won. We took two seats. Nobody writes about that. If we lost them, it would have been the biggest story of the year.  But were going to go, were going to do a job, and were going to win a lot of seats. Were going to win a lot of seats. People are very angry that Nancy Pelosi and all of these guys I mean, Nadler, I know him much of my life. Hes fought me in New York for 25 years. I always beat him, and I had to beat him another time, and Ill probably have to beat him again because if they find that I happened to walk across the street and maybe go against the light or something, lets impeach him, so Ill probably have to do it again because these people have gone stone-cold crazy, but Ive beaten them all my life, and Ill beat them again if I have to. But what theyre doing is very unfair. Very unfair. Kevin McCarthy has been great.  A few names, right? Therell be a few, you forget, if you want, you can raise, and Ill say, Great. Love to have you. Wonderful, but were going to do the best we can. I have my Cabinet, but my Cabinet is different. I appoint them, okay? I didnt see all of them helping so much. You know they were running their various bureaucracies. No, my Cabinets great, and theyre all here, but today is the day to celebrate these great warriors, these are great warriors. They really fought hard for us.  Ill start Kelly Armstrong, North Dakota. Kelly. Thank you. Great job. Great job. Jim Banks of Indiana. Jim, thank you. Great job. Andy Biggs. Wheres Andy? Boy, oh, boy, Andy. He just Theres a guy. Hes tough. I hear were doing well in Arizona. Its going good, yeah? I think so. I think I saw a poll that was very good for me. I think we have to make sure Martha is going to do I think Marthas going to do good, but we have some states that are going to be not easy, but Arizona has been great, and were stopping illegal aliens from coming in. Were putting up walls, New Mexico too, a state thats never been in play for Republicans is totally in play. Nevadas really looking good. Were doing well. Were doing well. Were going to have a great  Theres more spirit, I will say this, theres more spirit now for the Republican party by far than the Democrats. Mike Pence just got back from a place, a beautiful place that Chuck Grassley knows well: Iowa. He was talking about these fiasco, the Democrats, they cant count some simple votes, and yet they want to take over your healthcare system. Think of that. No, think of that.  But we also had an election out there, and we got 98% of the vote. We have two people running. I guess they consider them non-people but they are running. I mean, one was a governor, one was a congressman. Theyre running. Weve got 98% of the vote, and everybody from the media was saying, Who are those crowds over there? They expected it to be one of these competitive where everybodys running because they want to win, they want to win. It was Trump, right, Mark Meadows? It was Trump. This was a Trump crowd, and a lot of, actually a lot of my guys went there. They went to Iowa, and a lot of-  Yeah, a lot of my guys went there. They went to Iowa and a lot of friends went there and we had tremendous They say the spirit, the spirit for the Republican Party right now is stronger I think than its ever been in the history of our country. I think its stronger than its ever been.  And that includes Honest Abe Lincoln. A lot of people forget, Abe Lincoln, I wish he were here, Id give him one hell of an introduction. But he was a Republican. Abe Lincoln, Honest Abe.  Bradley Byrne. Alabama. What a great place. Thank you Bradley. A man who has been an unbelievable friend of mine and spokesman and somebody that I really like. And I know Kelly, youre going to end up liking him a lot. Somethings going to happen thats going to be very good. I dont know. I havent figured it out yet.  But Doug Collins, where is he? Where is Doug? You have been so great. Thank you very much, Doug. Thank you very much. Thank you. Really amazing job.  A young man who is born with a great gene because I know his father and how great a politician he was, but hes from Florida, sometimes controversial, but actually hes not controversial. Hes solid as a rock and hes a friend of mine. Matt Gates. Matt, thank you Matt. Great job.  All right, this guy, so hes the NCAA, meaning a couple of years ago when he was in college, wrestling champion. NCAA, thats the big deal. That means in all of college youre the champ, youre the best. His record was ridiculous. Nobody would, nobody could beat him. And I see it. Every time I see it, when I first got to know him, Jim Jordan, when I first got to know Jim, Id say, Huh, never wears a jacket. What the hells going on? Hes obviously very proud of his body. And they say where he works out, you know where the Congressmen, Senators, they work at, they say when Jim works out, even though hes not as young as he was, but when he works out, the machine starts burning Its just a different form of a workout than us. Right, Sunny?  There he is, look at that guy. But one day Im looking and he looks tough and Im looking at those years and I say, Those ears have something going on there. I said, Did you ever wrestle?  Yeah, I did. But he doesnt talk. But I checked. This guy was a world This guy was a champion, top, top wrestler. And when I had the top, I had all of the teams, and by the way, your Superbowl champions are coming, I think next week or soon. Very soon. And they, every one of them want to be here, and the coach loves us, the coach is great. Andy Reid. And every one of them want to be here. We have People love it.  But we had all of the NCAA championship teams here. They had the golf, the basketball, they had every team here and one of the teams was wrestling. The wrestling team was, that Penn State? And Penn State won the title, have a great team. And I walked up with Jim and its like I didnt exist. Those wrestlers, they grabbed him. They love Jim Jordan and we love you too because you are some warrior.  A woman who became a . We have a couple of women that became stars. You two. And I always liked the name of her, I like the name, Lets Go. I liked it. Thats how I picked it. I liked the name. I saw that face. I saw that everything. They gave me cards. He had like seven opponents. Right? And you have no idea how much the public appreciates how smart, how sharp you are. This I cant tell. I cant tell. They just said, You know, shes really good. Shes really talented. I said, Lets go. We worked with her. She won her race. Tough race. Its no longer tough because what she does out there is incredible. Arizona loves her. But you were so incredible representing, I dont say me, representing our country and getting it out of this impeachment hoax. What you did was incredible. So Debbie, please stand up. Debbie Lesko.  A man who I became very friendly with. I dont know why. You ever have where, Ill ask the media, certain people call you take their calls, other people call, if they dont have information, they wont take anybodys call. But other people call and you dont. This is a guy, he just is just a very special guy. His wife, I actually like better than him to be honest, because he doesnt know that I know that he didnt actually support me right from the beginning, but she did.  And on my worst day, right? On my worst day, my worst, I wont tell you why it was my worst, but it was not one of those good days. She got on a bus, got many other buses, and women all over North Carolina and they toured North Carolina. Well Mark was back sort of semi-supporting another candidate, which he ended up leaving very quickly. I dont think you had a choice because of your wife, but thank her and Mark Meadows. Hes an extraordinary guy. I mean the only problem is I guess hes announcing Hed only win by 40 points, but hes announcing that hell be not running this time. You have somebody good to run? Somebody going to win your district by at least 20 points, please? Okay.  But hes a tremendously talented man, not just as a politician, as a human being hes incredible. And during these horrible times, I mean the way he worked and Jim and all of you guys, the way they worked with so It was like their life was at stake. So many. Ron DeSantis is another one. He works so hard. Then he called me, he said, Sir, Id like to run for governor. I said, Governor? I dont want you to run. I like you staying.  No, I want to run for governor.  And I said, Well, if you have to.  Id like your support.  I said, How can I support you? Youre at three. He was at three. He had no money. Somebody else was at 38 and they had 22 million cash. Right? I said, Look, if its important, Ill do it. Because hes been another great warrior and hes, by the way, he ran, I endorsed him, his numbers went through the roof. The man who we beat who was expected to win easily called me after the race. He said, You endorsed him and it was like a nuclear bomb went off. There was nothing I could do. He never even spent this money. He saved it.  But Ron DeSantis is another one and now hes the governor of Florida. And by the way, hes a great governor. Hes a very popular governor. His numbers are in the 70s and hes done a great job. But Mark, I want to thank you very much. Fantastic job. Thank you very much. Mark Meadows.  And Mike Johnson of Louisiana. Wheres Mike? Central casting, what a job. You can represent me anytime. You can represent me anytime. Thank you. What a job youve done. Thank you Mike.  And a man nobodys ever heard of except the other side. Hes the other sides worst nightmare. This guy goes down into dungeons and basements. Hell find a document no matter what. Hes the most legitimate human being, hes the hardest worker. Hes unbelievable. He took tremendous abuse. I mean abuse. The media and the other side and the bad ones. The leakers, the liars, the dirty cops. They wanted to destroy him. They tried, they got close, but he wouldnt let it happen. And honestly, in a certain way, he was the first one. Wouldnt you say Jim and Mark and every This was the first guy. He came out of nowhere. Hes saying, These people are corrupt. Hes still saying it, and he was unbelievable. Devin Nunez. He was unbelievable.  Thats so true, Devin. Hed come in and say I didnt even know him. I just heard there were like, there was this Congressman who kept going into a basement into files. He knew something was wrong. You felt it, right? And now we know a lot more than we knew then. Right? You never thought it was as bad as it is and hopefully were going to take care of things because we can never ever allow this to happen again.  Scott Perry of Pennsylvania. Scott, thank you. Thank you Scott. Really great. And youre doing very well over there by the way. Just saw your numbers. A man who is a I mean central casting. If Im going to pick Perry Mason, Im going to do a remake of Perry Mason, other than Bill Barr Id pick this guy, but I have to say I pick Barr. I pick Barr first, right?  John Ratliff, right? But I have to tell you if were doing a remake of Perry Mason, the man I get, theres nobody in Hollywood like this. John Ratcliffe. Right? Stand up, John. Such a great lawyer, incredible guy, incredible talent, but just a great lawyer that we appreciate it. He gets on that screen and everyone says, I agree. The other side folds up so fast. Well probably be using a lot of you in the next year. But you have been fantastic, John. We appreciate it. Thank you very much.  A man who is braver than me and braver than all of us in this room. He got, he got whacked. He got whacked. My Steve, right? I went to the hospital with our great first lady that night, right honey? And we saw a man that was not going to make it. He was not going to make it. He was the doctor and I told him his wife, I said, She loves you.   Why do you say that?  Because she was devastated. A lot of wives wouldnt give a damn. A lot of wives, a lot of wives wouldve said, Hey, yeah. I said, Hows he doing? Oh, she couldnt even talk. She was inconsolable. Most wives would say, Not good. Listen, Im going home now. But the doctor came in, the wife is like, she was a total mess. She was really devastated and it really looked like he had a 20, 25% chance. I think you set a record for blood loss. And Steve Scalise, I actually, honestly, I think youre better looking now. Youre more handsome now. You werent that good looking. You look good now. He looks better now. Can you believe it? I dont know what the hell that is. Better now. What a guy.  And he was practicing. He was practicing for the baseball game against, I guess the Democrats, right? And this whack job started shooting. Hurt Roger, I dont know if Rogers here, but hurt a number of people, hit them, but really hit Steve. Steve was at second base, he was the second baseman, and he went down and it was terrible. I mean, I saw the whole thing and it was terrible. And fortunately you had two brave policemen with you because of your high position in Congress.  You had two policemen and they were amazing. The man and the woman and they came and they didnt have rifles. They were against a supposedly pretty good sharpshooter with rifles, good equipment. And all they had was a gun. And they started coming in from the outfield shooting. And theyre so far away that a handgun is not preferred. And this guy has the rifle and hes hitting people. And he was going to move up and there was no out. I mean, if he would have been able to move up, there was no way to get out. The entrance was a single entrance way on the other side where he was.  So everyone went into the dugout, ran into the dugout, but Steve was really hit badly in the stomach with a bullet that rips you apart. It was supposed to do that. It rips you apart. And these two people came charging forward, boom, boom, boom. And one of them, you know who, one of them, him, got the shooter, hit him and then got him. Killed him from long distance. It was amazing. If you didnt have those two people, you can imagine. Right? You can imagine what would happen. So Melania and I went to the hospital that night and he was in such bad shape and hes been working ever since, so hard. But six months ago they had a baseball game at the National  and Im watching and its on television. And its just, game, people, you want to win it. Right? And Steves at second base, the poor guy cant even walk. Do you remember Bobby Richardson for the New York Yankees? He was known for range, Louie, range. He had the greatest range. If a balls hit to shortstop, Bobby Richardsons the second player, second baseman. Bobby Richardson would field the ball. If its hit the first base hell throw it to the first baseman. He had unbelievable range. This was not Steve Scalise.  Steve had no range. One foot and he has to fall down. Right? Because he was trying to get better. I dont know who the hell put you on the field, and this is a true story. So the game starts and the first pitch, Steves standing at second base and the guy is really in bad shape. And I said, This is terrible. A shot, ground ball, shot is hit to second. And Steve, I say, I didnt have time to think too much, but I said, This is not good. That ball is going toward him. And this guy stopped that ball, caught the ball. Hes now laying down, he throws the ball to first base. He gets him out. I said, Its the most incredible thing. Ive never seen athletic Ive never seen anything like it. Right?  And he gets him out and they then took him out of the game, which was a very wise thing because you could never do that again in a million years, but you werent going to let that ball go through. I dont care if it was hit by the greatest of all time. Right? That ball was not going through you because you are a warrior. Steve, he is fantastic. You are fantastic. You and Liz and Kevin. What a great, what a group. I mean what a group. I got lucky. I got lucky because you need the right people. If I had the wrong people there, maybe a different story. Maybe wed be celebrating something else. But I really want to thank you Steve Scalise.  And Elise, you I just read the story. Shes the most incredible. Whats going on with you Elise. So I even said, you know I was up campaigning for her, helping her. But I thought she looks good. She looks like good talent. But did I not realize when she opens that mouth you were killing them, Elise. You were killing them.  Elise, and theres a big story in the New York Post. I really love the New York Post because they treat me well. There arent too many of you that do, but today youre treating me well. I even had a great headline, New York Times, Washington Post, I had all these great headlines. Maybe we should just end it right there. But you had the greatest story yesterday in the Post that people from all over the country are contributing to her campaign. They were so enthralled with the way you handled yourself. What you said, the way you said it. And Ill always be your friend. I think it was, its really an amazing story. What a great future you have. What a great future. Thank you. First Lady agrees by the way. First Lady agrees. And Michael Turner, you can represent me anytime. Wheres Michael? Where is he? Well, you can represent me. How good were you? Heres another, heres another Perry Mason type I think, right? What do you think John? But Micah, you were fantastic and we appreciate it.  Brad Wenstrup. Wheres Brad? Brad, great, great job. Its a big day for the And notice only the lawyers stayed. All the lawyers stayed behind. Lee Zeldin. How good are you? How good are you? Yeah. And Lou, your names not down. They didnt give me your name. Do you know if I didnt announce Louie. Whoever the hell made this list, I got to get rid of them. Because if I wouldnt have announced Louis, it mightve been the end of the Presidency. Louie, you have been so great, so tough, and so smart. I got it. I got it. But Louie has been amazing. Hes a tough guy. Hes a smart guy. Hes streetwise like crazy. We love Texas. And were with you all the way, Louie. Were with you all the way. Thank you very much.  So thats the story. We have a great group of warriors and there are others left. And I guess probably, Im sure I didnt mention a few and I apologize if thats the case. Hows ? My man, stand up please, will you? Hes the one who said, You should run. Right? Matt said, its like five years ago, six years ago, and I made a speech and then they do some kind of a straw poll. Who made the best speech? And he said I made the best speech. With all these professionals, but I hate to say this, with all these professional politicians, they voted by far the best speech was Trump. He calls me, he says, You should run for politics. I say, What do I know about politics? But you know what? We learned quickly and our country has never done better than its doing right now, so its pretty good. Thank you Matt. Great. .  So thats the story. Weve been treated very unfairly. Fortunately, we have great men and women that came to our defense. If we didnt, this would have been a horrific incident for our country. When you have Lisa and Peter, the lovers, the FBI lovers, I want to believe the path you threw out for Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. Thats the office. Theres no way he gets elected, meaning me. Theres no way he gets elected. This is Peter to Lisa. Hes probably trying to impress her for obvious reasons. Theres no way he gets elected, but Im afraid we cant take the risk.  Now think of this. In other words, if I get elected, they cant They, two low lifes, they cant take the risk. They cant take the risk. Think of it. And thats where it came up. The greatest word of all, insurance policy. So he says, But Im afraid we cant take the risk. She mellows. Its like an insurance policy. In the unlikely event you die before youre 40. In other words, if I won, they were going to do exactly what they did to us. They were going to try and overthrow the government of the United States, a duly elected president.  And if I didnt fire James Comey, we would have never found this stuff. Because when I fired that sleazebag, all hell broke out. They were ratting on each other. They were running for the hills. Lets see what happens. Lets see what happens. Its in the hands of some very talented people. Were going to have to see what happens. But I can tell you in my opinion, these are the crookedest, most dishonest, dirtiest people Ive ever seen. They said, this has struck, God, Hillary should win 100 million to one.  This is about me. This is an agent from the FBI. Look how they let her off. 33,000 emails deleted. Nothing happens to her. Nothing happens. Its unbelievable. But think of that, God, Hillary should win. When these guys are investigating Hillary. Then they go to work for Mueller, the two of them, and when Mueller found out that everybody knew that they were 100% this way, he let them go. But they deleted all of their emails and text messages. So when we got the phone, they were all deleted. Could you imagine the treasure trove they illegally deleted?  So they left. They left Bob Mueller. He had the look, but he didnt have a lot of other things. Always had to look, Mr. G-Man. And I love the FBI and the FBI loves me. 99%. It was the top scum and the FBI people dont like the top scum. So think of that 100 million to one, and hes investigating me. And then, God, Trump is a loathsome human being, isnt he? These are the people looking at me. Im really not a bad person. And Paige said, Yes, hes awful. How would you like to have that? This is just, this is the good stuff. Theres stuff a hundred times worse than that. These are all dirty people and now I just heard that theyre suing the United States of America because they were interfered with. Not going to let it happen. Just not going to let it happen. We cannot let this happen to our country.  So Im going to leave now and I dont know if any of you have anything to say. You could say it, but this is sort of a day of celebration because we went through hell and Im sure that Pelosi and Crying Chuck, knowing this guy all the time, the only time I ever saw him cry was when it was appropriate. Known him for a long time, Crying Chuck. But Im sure theyll try and cook up other things. Theyll go through the state of New York, theyll go through other places. Theyll do whatever they can because instead of wanting to heal our country and fix our country, all they want to do, in my opinion, its almost like they want to destroy our country. We cant let it happen.  Jim Jordan, did you want to say something? Go ahead. Mark? Thank you. Thank you. This was a highly partisan situation. Pelosi said, I copied it down exactly, before the impeachment She wanted to impeach from day one by the way, dont let it fool you. She said, No, the impeachment is a very serious thing. I said, She wants to impeach. Watch. Impeachment is so divisive to the country that unless theres something so compelling and so overwhelming and bi-partisan Bi-partisan? It was 197 to nothing. And other than one failed presidential candidate, and I call that half a vote because he actually voted for us on the other one. But we had one failed presidential candidate. Thats the only half a vote we lost. So we had almost 53 to nothing. We had 197 to nothing. And the only one that voted against was a guy that cant stand the fact that he ran one of the worst campaigns in the history of the Presidency.  But she said, Theres something Theres something, there has to be so compelling and so overwhelming and bi-partisan, I dont think we should go down that path because it divides the country. She was right about that. And its just not worth it.  That was Nancy Pelosi a year ago. Right? And I think its a shame. I think its a shame. But as I said, if we can this genius to work on roads and highways and bridges and all of the things we can do. Prescription drugs. We had Secretary Azar is here and I want to thank him for this, but we had First time in 51 years where drug prices actually came down last year. First time in 51 years. But what we can do working with both parties in Congress would be unbelievable. Itd be unbelievable what we can do. And I know Chuck Grassley is working very hard on it and Mitch is working very hard on it.  But what we can do is incredible. What we can do just generally. Weve done so much without it. Weve rebuilt our military, weve cut regulations at a level that nobody thought possible. Well always protect our second amendment. We all know that. But I just want to tell you that its an honor to be with you all. I want to apologize to my family for having them have to go through a phony rotten deal by some very evil and sick people. And Ivanka is here and my sons and my whole family. And that includes Barron. That includes Barron whos up there as a young boy. Stand up honey. Ivanka, thank you honey, . So, I just want to thank my family for sticking through it. This was not part of the deal.  I was going to run for President and if I won I was going to do a great job. I didnt know that I was going to run. And then when I got in I was going to have to run again and again and again, every week I had to run again. That wasnt the deal. But they stuck with me and Im so glad I did it because we are making progress and doing things for our great people that everybody said couldnt be done. Our country is thriving. Our country is just respected again, and its an honor to be with the people in this room. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Good music, but we have to get down to business. Were in North Carolina, and they talk business. But I want to just thank everybody for being here. Wonderful crowd. Oh, look up there, look at all those people. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And thank you to Ben, a special guy. He was very tough, you know, on the campaign trail. I had to fight him for a long time. He wouldnt go away. He doesnt give up. And hes smart, and hes good, and he was a great surgeon, and, I dont know, he gave that up for politics? Im going to have to talk to you about that. Where is he sitting? Where is he? Ma- you, why did, Im going to talk to you about that later. Have to explain, I think hes probably regretting that now. Hes doing an incredible job, an incredible job. You really are, Ben.  Housing. Hes done a job like few people have done it, but wonderful to be here with the incredible men and women who are restoring prosperity. Thats what youre doing. Rebuilding hope and delivering opportunity to those who need it most. Together were making our country stronger than ever before. We are doing numbers that you wouldnt even believe. Nobody would have thought it was possible. This morning the brand new jobs numbers came in. We smashed expectations and created 225 thousand new jobs last month. 225 thousand. They were thinking maybe 100, maybe 105. I was watching all the geniuses this morning on television. What do you think its going to be? Its going to be 110. 225. Pretty good, right? 225 thousand for last month. Thats only last month.  Unemployment claims in North Carolina are down 30% since the election and have fallen to their lowest level ever recorded. Pretty good. And were here in Charlotte to expand and grow this unprecedented economic momentum that we have going all over the country. Youre having the best year youve ever had in this state by far. Today were launching a brand new nationwide campaign to revitalize underserved cities and towns all across America. Its called Opportunity Now. Opportunity Now. Its a big deal.  And you know we did with Tim Scott, Opportunity Zones, and theyre the hottest thing youve seen. Their money is pouring in, Tim from South Carolina, and the money is, anybody from South Carolina here? Huh? Say hello to Tim. He really did, he came to my office with this idea, and I said, Sounds good. But those things traditionally have not worked, and Opportunity Zones are, amazing whats happened. Tremendous amounts of money being put into areas that hadnt seen money for decades and decades.  Anyway, so what were doing is because we arent waiting for tomorrow and we arent deferring peoples dreams to another day, with relentless optimism were taking action right now, and I mean right now, to create a future of dignity and security for all. Going to be an incredible situation, youll see. And we believe in no American left behind. Thats what its all about. No American left behind. In the coming months my administration will hold summits just like this one in cities across the country, working closely with community leaders, workers, entrepreneurs, employers, and faith leaders, our great faith leaders, so many great people Ive met. You know, we got ready of the Johnson Amendment so they can speak their will, right? Right? To make sure that every citizen can join in Americas unparalleled success and every community can take part in Americas extraordinary rise, together were building the most inclusive economy and the most inclusive society ever to exist. Were fighting for great jobs, great education, safe homes, and a limitless future for our people. Were lifting high citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. We are all Americans and we are all made equal by the hand of Almighty God. You know that very well.  Joining us today is small business administrator Jovita Carranza, who is helping to lead this groundbreaking effort along with Secretary Carson. Jovita? Where is Jovita? Jovita. Good! Thank you, Jovita. Great job.  Thanks also to the many great members of Congress that you have with us, and these are warriors. These arent like, these people have been fighting hard. Do you mind if I take a mi- am I allowed to take a s- couple of seconds and introduce them? I call them warriors. Senators and Congressmen and women, but theyve been incredible. You saw what happened. It was the impeachment hoax. And now thats a thing of the past, so now they have a failed impeachment hoax. They can put that on their resume. That doesnt go good on a resume, right? Thats a failed hoax. Every one of them have to put it right on that resume. It was a fix, except when it got up to Congress where we had 197 to nothing. Our Republicans hung in, and our tensors were incredible. They were really incredible, same kind of a thing, and a mans here whos really become a friend over the last year and a half, and we had a good relationship, but we sort of disagreed on a couple of minor policies, and thats okay. Of course I wont put up with it for long, Thom Tillis. Hes been a great friend.  Its true. Now we just had some disagreements at the beginning, and now at the last year, year and a half, boy, its been good. Right? Its been good, and you have something on sanctuary cities thats going to be incredible. It got one of the big hands that, I know nobody listened to the speech yet tonight, but it got a big hand. Going to be good. You got to push that, right? So Thom, thank you, and thank you for your support. It was great, your vote and everything else, and we have some Congressmen. Ive gotten to know them well. Its like we were in the trenches together. Representative Ted Budd. Thanks, Ted. Good job. A man I campaigned with and he was fantastic. He handled pressure very well. They said you couldnt win and he won by a lot. We did a little bit of a rally for two guys that are very special. One of them is Dan Bishop, Dan. Thank you, Dan. He campaigned and he didnt choke. There was no choke. He had a lot of pressure but he ended up, won by, like, five or six points. It was, like, boring that evening. You were winning by too much. I thought it was going to be a lot closer than that, right? Richard Hudson, another one. Great. Richard, great. Good job.  Everybody knows Mark Walker. Thanks, Mark. Another one of those too that I talked about recently, you know, CNN, they all had their vans. They were all ready because they thought wed have two losses, and they go out and say, Trump had a terrible night. But they both won. And this guy was pretty even, and I think he won by 28 points, right? It was like Greg Murphy. Right, Greg? He won by a lot. They both won by a lot. A man that Ive gotten to know too well. I love his wife. I mean, his wife, she was with me before he was with me, I have to say. But he came along very quickly. A long time ago, right? And she would go out with Women for Trump. They had buses. She had buses all over the place, right? Deb, where is she? Wheres our Deb? Oh, there. Well, I know them. Because they followed me around a little bit, right? They are incredible. They are incredible. How many have you come to, how many rallies have you? This isnt a rally, you know. This is a serious deal. How many rallies, would you say? A lot. And we have a lot of fun. Thank you very much, hon.  Mark Meadows, everybody. Mark. Great guy. A man who is without question the greatest name in politics. I said, if I had his name, I would have been president at least 10 years sooner. Patrick McHenry. Right? Best name in politics. A woman whos much tougher than any of these people. She doesnt stop, right? Mark, she doesnt stop. But shes great. We love her. Virginia Fox. A very popular guy who wins elections by a lot. Hes a tremendous asset to Congress, and a tremendous friend, Ralph Norman. Ralph? Thank you, Ralph. We call him landslide Ralph, because he wins by a lot. William Timmons. William, thank you. Great job. Great job. And a man whose son I probably like even more than him, Allen. What a job Allens done. Joe Wilson is tough and smart and he is there all the time, and his son is just like him. His son is better than him, I think. Right? And he doesnt mind. You know, I have a lot of fathers that, they dont like it when I say that. Ive had some, please dont say that my son is better. They say, Youre not a good father! Hes a great father. And hes proud of his son. His sons fantastic, and hes fantastic, and thank you very much. Thanks, Joe.  So were honored to be joined by North Carolina Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest, whos big future. Big future. You got to get rid of the sanctuary city, Dan. You going to be able to do that? I think, right? A lot of people want to get rid of them. Plenty of people in California want to get rid of them. Believe me, its something. And we have many other state and local leaders from all across North Carolina. Were thrilled to have you all here, and youre the ones that really know best, and were spending a lot of time in this state. Well be coming here. Lewis is around someplace. Wheres Lewis? Lewis, the joy. Thank you very much, and I appreciate it. Well be coming here a lot. And were way up in the polls, but you know what I say? I pretend one point down everywhere. Somebody said, How you doing? I said, Well, one point down everywhere. But were way up. Thats what they tell me. Way up in North Carolina. Way up in South Carolina. Way, way up in South Carolina. Ralph? Way, way up. So anyway. So we just assume, its always good. I always say, Pretend youre one point down. That way you work your ass off, right? We have to do that, because this is the most important election coming up. This election is, I used to say the other and the other. You know, the other is the other. 2016 was incredible. But you see whats going on? You see whats happening on the other side? They want to take everything away. They want to destroy everything weve built. Weve got the most successful country in our history. They want to take it away. Not going to happen. Its not going to happen.  As I said in my State of the Union Address earlier this week, our nation is in the midst of the single greatest comeback that weve ever had. This is a comeback. We were doing poorly. And if you remember, it goes all the way back, for years I heard that China will take over as the largest economy in the world in 2019. I kept hearing that. I hated it, because I said, If I run, 2019s not so far away. We are so far ahead. We are so far ahead now. We became a rocket ship, taking in billions and billions and billions in tariffs, giving a lot of it to our farmers and different people that we targeted. Now we have a deal with China. I just spoke to President Xi last night, and were working on the problem, the virus. Its a very tough situation, but I think hes going to handle it. I think hes handling it really well. Were helping wherever we can. But we have a great relationship. Its incredible. They respect us again. They didnt even respect us. What they were doing to us, they didnt even respect us. They respect us again and we respect them. And we think, I think we have the best relationship weve had with China, but its really incredible.  So we signed the deal. We signed the Mexico Deal and Canada Deal, USM Deal. Signed a deal with Japan, $40 billion coming in. Signed a deal with South Korea, which had a terrible deal. That was a deal made by crooked Hillary Clinton. She said, 250 thousand jobs this will produce! Its going to produce 250 thousand jobs! And she was right. For them. They got 250 thousand jobs. She never said that. She said 250 thousand jobs. Anyway, we changed it around. We said, Sorry about that, but were changing this deal around. For decades, Washington politicians put special interests ahead of American interests. They enacted disastrous trade, really, and I mean disastrous trade policies, like, its imaginable, frankly. I looked at some of these deals. I said, Who the hell would have done this? Who would have done this? A child wouldnt have agreed to this stuff. Unbelievable. And were still here. You know, its pretty incredible when you think of it, but I dont know that we would have been for long.  So we change them around, but the trade policies that shuttered our factories, gutted our communities, and shipped millions and millions and millions of jobs overseas and to other places. They spend trillions of dollars in the Middle East, but they allowed our own cities to crumble in total disrepair. You have a road. You have a bridge. You have a school. We build schools in Afghanistan. They blow it up. We rebuild it. They blow it up. We rebuild it. But if a school in South Carolina needed money, if a school in North Carolina needed money, if a school in Florida, any of the places, you know it right here, North, you cant get money. But we get you the money. We get you the money. But they spend almost eight trillion dollars now in the Middle East. Terrible. Terrible thing. But were doing tremendous work and a lot of our soldiers are coming back home. You see it. You see whats happening. Theyre all coming back. They werent meant to be law enforcement. They werent meant to be law enforcement. Theyre meant to be soldiers, you know. And we love our law enforcement, but we didnt put the soldiers over there to be law enforcement.  And they impose crushing government burdens that punish working class Americans of all backgrounds. But not anymore. Those days have changed, and theyve changed very quickly, and more so than youre even hearing about. After years of building up other countries, we are finally building our country. From our inner cities to rural communities all over the land, the forgotten men and women of America are forgotten no longer, because we are finally putting America first. Took a long time, long time. A long time. Our economy is now the envy of the entire world, as you have to see when leaders come to my office, this beautiful Oval Office. Ive had people walk into the office. Its beautiful. But they have more beautiful in many cases, I guess, but its what it represents. They walk in, powerful people, big people, and you see them crying. Ive seen heads of corporation walk in. Have you ever seen the Oval Office? No, I havent. How many times have you been in the White House. 51 times, theyve said, the head of a big car company, 51 times. Huh. Have you ever seen the Oval Office. No. They never took me. Ill take you in. I like showing it, all right? Ill take you in. And you see them start to cry. Tough people. They havent cried since they were a baby, some of them never cried at all, even when they were a baby. And they start to cry when they walk into the Oval Office. Pretty amazing.  Since my election, America has gained seven million brand new jobs, including 220 thousand brand, brand, beautiful new jobs in a place called North Carolina. Isnt that great? Great state. New business applications in North Carolina have surged by 30%. African-American workers have gained 1.3 million jobs. For the first time ever think of this. For the first time ever, most new hires, thats new jobs, are minorities and women. Think of that. First time ever. The unemployment rate has just hit, and has been for a little while, but just hit the lowest in over 50 years. The average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any previous administration in the history of our country. Think of that, the average rate. The average rate, and youve heard me say this many times, but I keep saying it, because I think people are really getting it and understanding whats going on. This has been an incredible thing. African-American unemployment, Hispanic-American unemployment, Asian-American unemployment, have all reached the lowest levels in our country. I say it, because, you know. Very importantly, African-American youth unemployment has reached its lowest level ever recorded. African-American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rate ever recorded, the best numbers weve ever had. Remember I used to say, What do you have to lose? I was in a room and it started, and Im reading off economic numbers, the worst crime numbers, worst housing ownership numbers, worst everythi- just, worst education. Worst everything. I think there were nine or 10 different very major factors, African-American. I said, Youve been with the Democrats for 100 years, 112 to be exact, but for over 100 years. And they treat you badly. And they only come around two months before the election. And then right after the election, they say, Bye-bye. Well see you in two years or four years. But they come around and they work real hard. They want your vote. And then the day after the election, theyre gone. Thats the Democrats. And I said, Always bad numbers. What the hell do you have to lose? I say it two ways. When I have a very sophistica-  What the hell do you have to lose? I say it two ways. When I have a very sophisticated, tough group like this, I say, What the hell do you have to lose? And when I have a very kind group, I know too many of the people in those , not so kind. But I say, What do you have to lose? Its very much less effective when I say it that way. When I go, What do you have to lose? Its like, lets fall asleep. But when I say, but I remember I said it this night, I said, what 25,000 people? I said,  What the hell do you have to lose? Place went crazy. Then I went off stage and my people told me, I dont know, thats not nice. I said, No, its true. Its true. What do they have to lose? Right? They didnt like it. They didnt like it.  Thats why theyre all looking for jobs. We didnt take . But I said, No, we got to get the point across. And we did well in the election, but now were doing numbers that I think maybe no Republican has done. Were doing numbers, lets see if that has to carry, November 3rd, we have to go to November 3rd. But the numbers have been incredible.  Thank you for putting on that beautiful hat. I love that hat, but thank you man. But its incredible. What youre seeing now is incredible. Its a Renaissance for African American, but for Asian American, for women, for everybody. Workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment rate ever recorded in history. Think of that. Theres a lot of people, they dont have a diploma. They didnt go to high school. They went to high school and they didnt graduate, lets say. And now theyre doing well. Low income workers have seen a 16% increase since my election. Thats in wages. Thats a record. This is a blue collar boom.  Wages for African American workers have increased by $2,400 per year. Thats a record. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%. thats three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Larry Kudlow left. He said, Please, please read this. I say, Who the hell is going to know what it means? But you know what it means? It means that people that are really working hard that arent doing so well, havent done well, are doing proportionately better then people that are doing very well. Its great.  Median household income reached the highest level ever recorded. Think of that one. Median household income. And think of it, President Bush for eight years, $450. President Obama for eight years, its $975. President Trump, and really when they did this stat, it was two and a half, now were at the three. Were a little over three. Can you believe how fast were going? See? Well keep the rallies going. Dont worry. Even if we win, even when we win next time well do rallies. Okay? But no, think of it. So you have 450, you have 975, and now you have two and a half, but lets say three years, instead of eight years. So its eight, eight and three. And with us, when you add the tax cuts and we add the regulation cuts, its close to $10,000, and thats in a short period. Thats whats fueling the boom. Thats whats fueling the stock market. Thats why other countries arent doing well and we are.  And incredibly according to the Gallup Poll, no friend of mine, they tend to be slightly left of center, like about 200 degrees, 90% of Americans say theyre satisfied with their personal life, the highest percentage ever. I wonder what their definition of personal life is. I dont know. Its an a strange, thats a strange poll, Ive never heard of a pole like that. Are you happy with your personal life? Is everyone here happy with their personal life?  I know Mark Meadows is. No, its a strange Paul, Im trying to If I give you definition of , had a lot of definitions you could get there. To lift up underserved communities across the nation, our tax cuts created nearly 9,000 opportunity zones. Again, Tim Scott, including more than 250 right here in North Carolina. So thats something. 250 in North Carolina. Longterm investment in these communities is now taxed at zero. These deserving communities have not known opportunity in a long time, but now the investments are flooding in creating energy and creating excitement like they havent seen for a long time. One of the Americans benefiting from this gusher of new investment is a man who became very famous the other night because I introduced him during the State of the Union. Army veteran Tony Rankins of Cincinnati, Ohio. Good place. I had a summer job in Cincinnati. I worked in Cincinnati one summer. I did a good job. I did it a good job. I love Cincinnati. The Queen City. I love Cincinnati.  After struggling with drug addiction, Tony lost his job, his house, his family, and he was homeless. He lost everything. But then Tony found a construction company that does work in opportunity zones, and the company saw Tonys great skill and talent, helped him lift himself out of homelessness, break free of addiction, and these are great people. And they trained him for the new job. He didnt need that much training either. Tony is now a top carpenter who renovates historic buildings in Cincinnati. Hes drug-free and hes reunited with his family. And Tony, Id love to have you come up and say a few words please. Tony. Tony Rankins. A lot of love. The fact is, he became very famous, so hell leave his job as a carpenter, hell go to California, become a movie star. You never know. Tony, thanks a lot. They really did. And they loved you the other night. Sat right next to my daughter, Ivanka, and great. Really great. The construction businesses is where Tonys employed and working to help 200 people rise out of homelessness every year by investing in the opportunity zones. And now theyre coming to North Carolina to build housing for veterans in an opportunity zone right here in Charlotte. And I want to thank I want to thank their founder and ask their founder, Travis Stephens, to please come up and say a few words. Please Travis. Thank you, Travis. You know, Tony got a much bigger hand than the boss. Right? Much bigger. . How did he do, Tony? Okay? Did okay? He did good, right? You did better. He did better. Thank you very much. And thank you Travis. And its 200 people I think, Travis. So thats tremendous. 200. Youll be up to a lot more than that. To further support opportunity zones I established the White House Opportunity and the Revitalization Council chaired by Secretary Carson. Bens worked very hard on it. Really hard. Its mission is to marshal 17 federal agencies and coordinate dozens of existing federal programs to provide maximum support to opportunity zones. Under my administration were working every day to restore the American promise of upward mobility. We dont want anyone to just get by. We want everyone to get ahead and get ahead big league.  From the day I took off, I have been working to build an unlimited future for African American communities who have given, served, and sacrificed so much for our nation. Tremendous, tremendous amount. Ive been fighting for higher wages, fair trade deal, safe communities, affordable healthcare, lower drug prices. This year, meaning last years numbers just came in, first time in 51 years where drug prices, prescription drugs, went down. First time in 51 years. And frankly, if the Democrats would ever negotiate instead of wasting all their time, we could drive those prices down so low. It would be so beautiful. I mean, whats not to like?  Were fighting for school choice and also criminal justice reform. You know, we got that done. Criminal justice reform. Big thing, we got it done. I will not rest, I will not stop, I will not give up until we have delivered equal and abundant opportunity for every community in our land. We are not interested Its true. No, were not interested in business as usual. Were not interested in continuing yesterdays failures, of which there were many, or the old ways of doing things. We want to disrupt whats broken. I want to really disrupt this place because none of the other stuff work.  When you look at the opportunity zones, how successful theyve been, were doing things that are just really incredible. Now the economys helping I guess, and a lot of things are happening, a lot of good things are happening. But so many people are benefiting. We want to challenge whats failed and focus on delivering real results, improving real lives, and making the world a better place for every American child no matter their place of birth or zip code or residence. No matter where they live, no matter where they come from.  Our commitment to opportunity now includes those who have been released from prison. This is the first time where prisoners are coming out and getting jobs and not having to go back. The percentage is unbelievably different. To give former prisoners the chance for a fresh start, last year I was proud to sign the landmark criminal justice reform into law. Took a lot of work. It was a very tough one. Theyve been trying to get it for a long time and other administrations couldnt get it. We got it done. We get things done.  America is a nation that believes in redemption. People were in jail, you know Alice Johnson, she spent 22 years in jail. She had 18 or 20 left for something no good but not Its not a 40 or 50 year sentence. And shes an incredible woman. You probably saw the ad we took at the Superbowl. I had another ad, we had two of them, and the first one was going to go in that spot. That was the best spot. That was right after the first time out. And this was one with jets and aircraft carriers and missiles all over the place. It was exciting. It was great. And I thought this was going to be just great.  And then we had the Alice Johnson ad. So we played the first one and I have one guy in particular whos a tremendously talented person, and everybody just assumed the missiles and the planes, that was going to be the ad. And then well put Alice back a little bit further frankly and not in as good You have two spots. You can get one great spot. One not so great spot. This guy comes in, looks at both ads, he says, The Alice Johnson head is unbelievable. I said, What about the aircraft carriers? He said, Its fine but, you know, Ive seen them before. You do them all the time actually. Right?  And as soon as he said that I realized, and everybody is talking about that ad, Alice is a tremendous woman, tremendous person. And I said, How many other women do you know in prison like that Alice? She said many. I said, Now do you know some that cant come out? Absolutely. Because I wanted to hear that too because thats true also. But I said, How many? She said, Many. I said get me their names, just get me their name. She knows, she was in there a long time. 22 years she spent. A roaring economy is for the first time ever giving many former prisoners the ability to go out and get a great job. Weve also made it a priority to encourage businesses to expand second chance hiring practices.  When my administration says, Hire American, we mean all Americans, every American. To help former inmates find housing, jobs, and support, my administration has established the Council on Crime Prevention and Reentry. Very big deal. Today Im proud to announce that Im appointing Tony Loudon, pastor of Maranatha Baptist Church. Wheres Tony? In Georgia. Tony? Where is Tony? Come on Tony. And Tonys going to be our executive director. Tony, tell us a little about your work, please. Thank you. Wow. Hes done that before. Hes some pastor. Thats what the word is. Now I understand. Were grateful to you, pastor. Thank you very much. All of our countries, African American churches, have done such an incredible job. Everything they do, they really raise the spirit of our people, they lift up the conscience of our nation. And we really appreciate you being here. That was beautiful. Thank you very much. My administration will always defend the cherished legacy and vital contributions of our African American churches. They are so vital, so important. To make the most of Americas boundless opportunities every American child deserves a great education. Yet for too long, countless American children have been trapped in poorly performing schools. Thats why its one of those things I talked about in the State of the Union address.  I highlighted the story of Janiah Davis, a fourth-grader from Philadelphia who was on the wait list for a School Choice Education Freedom Scholarship in Pennsylvania, along with 50,000 other Pennsylvania students. We got Janiah her second, really you call it a sort of a second chance. But we got her the school choice scholarship that she so desperately wanted with her mother. Her mothers terrific. And now I want to ask Congress to pass legislation that would extend the same opportunity  Ask Congress to pass legislation that would extend the same opportunity to 1 million American children, including 40,000 students right here in this incredible state, this incredible place.  Thank you. Thank you.  School choice. We all like school choice, right? Every child has the right to attend a great school. Thats what it is. They have a right. Its catching on like a people wouldnt believe. In my State of the Union, I also asked Congress to support my plan to offer vocational and technical education at every single high school in America.  We must be training our children so they have the skills to score well paying jobs, sometimes better paying than if they did it the traditional way. You know, when I was growing up, we had a lot of vocational schools and theyd teach auto mechanics and theyd teach brick laying and they teach all these great professions that make a lot of money. And Id be in school with people and they didnt love doing the traditional academics, but they could fix a car, an engine, a motor, they could fix it blind folded. They were unbelievably talented. They also liked doing it. Thats what they wanted to do. And we dont really have that anymore. We call them junior colleges. And maybe thats good, but I think the vocational school concept is what we really have to look at. They had tremendous talent. Ill never forget. Tremendous talent.  I sat next to a one very young person at the time. Thats what he loved, thats what he wanted to do. He had no interest in what we were doing, just none. And I had no interest in what he was doing, you want to know the truth. But he was unbelievable. He could fix anything and thats what you have to do. You have to go with the aptitude in addition to everything else and they have tremendous aptitude, but theres no place. And so, were going to go with a vocational school system where they can go out, actually make more money, and have something they really want to do.  My administration is determined to give our citizens the opportunities they need regardless of age or background through our pledge to Americas workers spearheaded by a young woman that perhaps some of you may have heard of, Ivanka Trump.  Over 415 companies have committed, these are the big companies for the most part, have committed to providing new jobs and training opportunities to nearly 15 million Americans. You know, when she started, she said, Daddy, I want to help people get jobs. This was at the beginning of the administration. She said, Im working on 500,000 jobs. Shed call Walmart. Shed call all these great companies. She had a goal of 500,000, half a million jobs, sounds like a lot. I said, Thats a lot. She just broke 15 million jobs. Amazing. 15 million. And theyre not trained by government. Government cant train them.  Look at what happened. I mean, look at  I love the state of Iowa. We just did very well in Iowa, by the way. We set a record, but nobody talks about that. What they do talk about the fact is the Democrats dont know what the hell theyre doing. Its true. Mark just got back. Youll have to see these campaigns. Theyll spend 20-25 million dollar, lets say, on average, but its really more than that. And they go out, they work and they work, theyve been campaigning there for weeks. They even had to leave the impeachment hearing. I said, keep them here, youll get a real fast settlement. But they couldnt do.  But, they go out and they work and they spend tens, millions, hundreds of millions of dollars, and the only thing they didnt check to see whether or not the app worked. It didnt. It fried all votes. Theyre all fried. Now you have all these people fighting, I was first, No, I was first. Theyre taking samples. Theyre doing the vote by a sample. We got 2% of the vote, lets see, who won. And it turned out to be Pete Buttigieg, who ever the hell that is, Mayor Pete. Explain that one to me. Someday youll go, Youre going to explain that one to me, right? Right? You people.  Now, do you ever see anything so crazy? They cant count simple votes, but they want to fix your healthcare system. Think of it. Remember the Obamacare, right? Remember? It was going to cost 5 million. It costs 5 billion, right? 5 billion. It still didnt work. Still didnt work. But they have something going on in Iowa that sad actually, if you want, its embarrassing. Although, Im not overly embarrassed by it. I see these shows this morning, theyre saying, Oh, this is a disaster. Trump is going to kill us on this one. Theyre right. Theyre right. All that time. All that time. Thank you. Now, if you want to drive them crazy, go 12 more years, 16 more years. Theyll drive them crazy. Look at all the fake news back there.  To expand equal opportunity, Im also proud to report that my administration has achieved record and permanent funding. This is so important. Every year, historically black colleges and universities, for three years now, theyd come and see me. We need money and after two years I said, how come they come back all the time? Thats not nice. Thats not respectful of them. No, really. I really mean it. You understand, right? Its not respectful. They come back every year. They give them a one year, the Democrats, they give them one year and then youre supposed to come back hat in hand. And what I did I wont get any credit for it Theyll take the credit, but you know, its one of those things that happens all the time. Criminal justice reform. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That is nice. I think so. I think were getting Look, hey, we are in the oval office so I guess something happened, right? But it is too with criminal justice reform, they couldnt get it. Nobody could get it. And a group of people, including Van Jones and others, came to the oval office, they came with Jared Christian, smart kid, smart guy, and they came to the oval office and they said, We cant get it. We need help. I said, Who do you need help with? Some very tough senators like Tom. No, they need help with some very tough people there are senators. They needed to get over the line. They needed numerous senators, Republican senators, that werent so inclined. We had some that absolutely right from the beginning. Ted Cruz, right from the beginning. Mike Lee, very conservative, right from the beginning. But they needed help. There was no way they could It was dead.  They came to see me, group of people headed by Van Jones, and they asked me for help. And I called six people and I explained it quickly and I got them to support it and it got passed. And you had another side that didnt necessarily like it, but people are starting to like it now a lot because its fair. Its just fair. And some states have done it. Texas has done it and Kentucky has done it. States that are known as being pretty tough on law and order.  I got it done. And about a week later I saw Van Jones making the speech and he was thanking everybody. I called my wife, I said, Darling, Im so proud of this. Come in. Im sure hes going to say nice things. He never mentioned my name. I want to thank the Reverend Al Sharpton. Al Sharpton, I didnt even know he was involved. I want to thank people that Id never even heard of. He was thanking people. He never mentioned my name. I had somebody call him say, you dont have to do that, but if its so tough, not fair, but you know you should do it. He apologized. He said he made a mistake, but he could have never gotten done without me. And sometimes in life, and you have to do this, if youre not going to get credit, you might as well take it yourself because youre the only one thats going to get it. Its true. Its true. Right? Might as well.  You might as well take it yourself because theyre not going to give it to you. Were very proud of it. But this was another one, historically black colleges and universities, and I said, its not fair. We put them down, as you know. Right? We put them down where they have long term. They dont have to come back every year and beg. They dont have to come back and beg every year. Right?  You were one of the guys. You mentioned it to me. It was just unfair. These are great schools. These are school that do a phenomenal job. If we didnt have those schools, it would be terrible. Now they have a longterm deal. Theyve got the money and they can focus on education, right? And most importantly, were going to ensure that the HBCUs will always be an important part of our educational system because we were going to lose a lot of them. They couldnt do this, they just couldnt do it. They were hiring consultants, wise guys, right? Real wise guys. They were hiring consultants, I call it, who get percentages, who get a lot of money to go to Washington and lobby and work and this and that, and a lot of the percentage of the time spent was on spending and seeing congressmen, seeing senators, seeing people. And I said, we cant do this. And these consultants would say, Hey, you got to give us something that paid the consultant. Its just a waste of money. They didnt do anything. I never spoke to a consultant about what were talking about. Right? We have it, youre done for longterm and thats the way its going to be. And we might as well let you have, but Im very proud of that one. Thank you.  Previously federal law also restricted more than 40 faith-based HBCUs and seminars from fully accessing federal support, but my administration has stopped the federal government from discriminating against faith-based HBCUs and some of the best of them are faith-based. You know? Some of the best are faith-based. Thats a whole thing going on. Its no good. I cant do that.  As part of our relentless campaign to make life better for working families, Ive asked Congress to pass legislation extending family leave to new parents nationwide so that every parent can spend critical time with their newborn or newly adopted child. And weve also overseen historic funding increases for high quality childcare, enabling States to help more children, many of which have reduced or eliminated their wait lists altogether. We have tremendous wait lists and those lists are way down. At the heart of our economic agenda is the conviction that for America to truly prosper, all of our communities must share in the gains. Were making big gains and they have to share.  Together were bringing opportunity back to the places that need it most. Were honoring the allegiance to the hardworking men and women whose faith, love, sweat, and sacrifice, make our country run. We are restoring the bonds of loyalty that unite us as Americans. No matter your party, no matter your politics, were fighting to deliver freedom, justice, inequality to every man, woman, and child in our land. Were fighting to bring opportunity, dignity, and hope to every block in every neighborhood, all throughout this magnificent nation, and it is indeed a magnificent nation. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.  With the help everyone here today, we are restoring the American dream for the American family. Were giving a voice to those who were voiceless, and hope to those who felt hopeless. No part of this country will ever again be ignored, neglected, overlooked, or abandoned. Were all united by a shared home, a shared destiny, and a shared devotion to our fellow citizens. We love our country. We are one American family. Thank you, darling. I love you too. She blew my best line, but would you stand up please. Where are you? I think youre great. I love you too. Thank you very much. I was all set to really hit it, but I like that better.  But, were one American family. We rise together, we thrive together, and we win together. And thank you very much to all of those for your work, your drive, your commitment, your patriotism, your love for this nation. Our future has never been brighter, and my fellow Americans, the best is yet to come. God bless you. Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you very much. God bless you all. Thank you."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Its a great honor to have you at the White House, a very special place. Beautiful and so meaningful in so many ways and our country has never done better. Youre all doing really well. Every state is doing well. I can say most every state in the room today is setting records and wed like to think that the federal government has been helping you a lot, but it is wonderful being with you and we had a great evening last night, and the talent of those musicians, they could be anywhere in the world. Many of them could work in the great opera houses, but they loved the military.  When you heard the violins and the talent, the great talent, I dont know if anybody has an ear for music. Believe it or not, a long time ago, I was told I have a great ear for music by somebody. I took a test. They said, He has a wonderful aptitude for music. I said, I do? But would you listen to that? Its really incredible, the talent, and theyre great people. They want to be in the military. They dont want to be anywhere else. So its really, really something.  As I said in my State of the Union last week, were in the midst of a great American comeback with the help of many of the people in this room, and youve done really a fantastic job. I think I can say just about everybody. Ill say just about just in case some day somebodys going to run or do something that I wont like and I can have a little bit of an out when I say just about. I said, No, he was included in the just about. But were creating the most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society ever to exist, actually.  Since my election, Americas gained seven million new jobs. We added 225,000 jobs in January alone, crushing expectations. The unemployment rate reached the lowest level in 50 years, and a statistic thats incredible to me is the average unemployment that weve had during this three-year period is the lowest of the history of our country compared to any other administration. The lowest of the history of our country. The unemployment rate for African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-Americans have reached the lowest level ever recorded.  Low income workers have seen a 16% pay increase since my election. Something thats so great to see. When I campaigned, they hadnt had rate increases, pay increases, for 20 years, 21 years. They were working three jobs and two jobs and making less money than theyd been made 20 years ago. Median household income, as you all know very well, is the highest ever recorded by far. Since 2016, 28 states have reached or matched their lowest unemployment rate on record. So we have 28 and I think soon were going to have just about everybody.  And at the end of last year, a record 39 states had unemployment below 4%. Again, another record. Just as I promised during my campaign, were fighting every day to expand opportunity for African-American communities all across our country. African-American youth, we have such great news on African-American youth. Unemployment has reached its lowest level ever recorded. Its a great statistic. African-American poverty rates have plummeted to their lowest rate ever in history and wages for African-American workers have increased $2,400 a year. Thats also a record.  At the center of our economic agenda, or opportunity zones, I hope youre embracing them. I think many of you are. My administration has worked with the governors in this room to create nearly 9,000 opportunity zones in our most vulnerable communities. Jobs and money are pouring into these areas that have never seen investment. I mean, they havent seen them in decades and decades and decades, and hundreds of millions of dollars are pouring into certain communities, individual communities, hundreds of millions of dollars. And its never been anything like it. Opportunity zones. Tim Scott did a great job on that. Senator Tim Scott.  I urge all governors to create a state-level version of our White House opportunity and revitalization council to coordinate the efforts of state government to provide maximum support for the opportunities and say, Were there to help you. If you have a problem, call me, literally call me and well work it out. But the opportunity zones, and thats Democrat or Republican, by the way, opportunities have been fantastic. We must not stop until we have delivered equal and abundant opportunity for every community in our land, and thats whats happening. To give former prisoners a second chance.  This has worked better than any program, ever. I was proud to sign the landmark criminal justice reform into law, and since that time, 10 states have passed legislation following our lead and there were numerous states, I know Texas was there, governor with criminal justice reform. Amazing. And Kentucky and few others that were thought of as being very strict states, and yet they had criminal justice reform. We looked at a lot of what Texas did and some of the other states, what worked so well. Alice Johnson is an example. She was in for 22 years and she had another 20 years to serve on something that everythings bad, but to be in jail for 40 and 50 years for what Alice did on a telephone was crazy.  Thanks to our roaring economy, former inmates are now finding jobs and the employers are so happy now. The economy is really helping, but its the first time ever were prisoners coming out of jail are finding jobs, loving it, and the employers, the feedback were getting from so many people, so many employers are, these are among the best people they have and they were in a way forced by the economy, the good economy, because its hard to get people. Down to 3.5, and actually, it went to 3.6 because were opening up the valve, theyre hiring more and more people.  There was a positive, 225,000 as I said, but the prisoners are now working and theyre doing a phenomenal job, for the most part. Our booming prosperity is being fueled by our historic regulatory reduction campaign and my first month in office, I imposed a two-for-one rule requiring for every one new regulation, two old ones must be eliminated. Well, that turned out to be  We went to four, we went to six, we went to eight. We had a period where we were at 22:1, 22:1, and were eliminating on average $3,100 in regulation cost per family a year. Nobodys ever even heard of such a thing, and were getting housing bill, too.  We have rules and regulations, made it impossible. I hope California gets their act together because the cost of regulations is almost the cost of a house and they need housing and they cant build it. They dont know what theyre doing. The governors initiative or regulatory innovation is designed to continue our unprecedented progress through straight estate level deregulation. Governor Doug Ducey has achieved three for one on cuts  Wheres Doug? Good job, Doug. Well, he only won by about 17%, so, you know, he should be doing good. In fact, at 17%, you should be at 4:1, I think, right? Thats a big win, big one. That was a great win.  And Governor Kevin Stitt of Oklahoma has reached two for one and going to three for one. Wheres Kevin? Hi, Kevin. Good job. Great. Were also working together  And many of you in the room have done much better than one-for-one, much better. Some of you are up to four. Were also working together to reform occupational licensing. Just this year at least 12 governors have taken action to reduce burdensome occupational licensing requirements. That means licensing where either its unnecessary, or where you actually can do it very quickly.  There are some licensing requirements that takes years to get approved and it could take a matter of days, could take a matter of days. Governors understand the need to get infrastructure projects quickly approved to speed up permitting and reduced traffic congestion. Last month, we issued a proposed new rule to reduce permitting and the permitting time for new infrastructure by more than 70%. Highways that were taking 12 years to get approved, 14, 15, 17, 21 years. Were trying to get it down to one year.  That means you may get rejected if you have an environmental problem or safety problem. In many cases, these highways became much more unsafe and they took a long time because they try and get away from certain problems, including nesting, but they try and get away and instead of having a straight run, theyd create curves in the highway, which obviously, make it much more dangerous. And they had problems with some of those highways and theyre much more expensive to build.  Not only the time, the design, but the time. I mean, by the time they get an approved. So, we have highways that would take 21 years. We have roads that took 10 years, 11 years, 12 years to get approved. And Elaine Chao has been fantastic. Elaine, thank you very much. The job youre doing with transportation, we appreciate it very much. And Jeff, you were over there for a long while. I will tell you, so I have to give you at least partial credit. Right now, youre at a different location, but you really did. You did a great job on that.  So we have it down to two years now, but I think were going to get it down to one and very good chance youll be rejected if it doesnt meet environmental standards and tests. And we are rescuing students from failing government schools by introducing the Education, Freedom, Scholarships and Opportunity Act, which will replicate the great success of tax credit scholarships available in 18 states. We believe very strongly, or at least many of the people in this room, not all of them, but believe very strongly in school choice. Were also working closely with the States to improve public safety.  This includes the incredible work being done by our nations heroic ICE officers. Weve moved thousands of MS-13 out of the country back to where they came from, whether its Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico. And as you know, we reached agreements with those countries so that we can do that. And the past administration, they wouldnt accept them. They come from one of the countries, tough countries, and we would send them back and they wouldnt take them. Not me. They take them now. Now they say, Thank you so much for sending them back. We were looking for this killer. Thank you very much. We appreciate it.  But they all take them now. They take them very quickly before they used to say, Dont ever even think about landing that airplane. We dont want those people. So they take them back rapidly. Some day, theyll tell the real story as to why, but thats the way it has to be. We have thousands and thousands of killers and gang members that were bringing back to countries that now accept them. They were not taking them back. Last year alone, ICE officers arrested 120,000 criminal aliens charged with nearly 10,000 burglaries, 5,000 sexual assaults, 45,000 violent assaults, and 2,000 murders.  Now, some of them we keep here when they  Its very egregious. We dont necessarily trust other people to take care of justice, so we keep them here. But we dont like having people in our prisons for 50 years, 60 years, and we have to pay for it. And so, for the most part, we bring them back to their countries and give them a very bad recommendation. State and local cooperation is the backbone of this effort. We have a tremendous relationship with-  It is the backbone of this effort. We have a tremendous relationship with many of the states and governments, cities. Its essential that all of our states and cities honor ICE detainer requests to ensure that safe transfer of criminal aliens into federal custody takes place. Jurisdictions that adopt sanctuary policies and instead release these criminals, put all of Americans in harms way. A very, very serious problem. I mean were all here for the same thing. I know we have different policies, different feelings, different everything, but sanctuary cities are causing us a tremendous problem in this country. We have stone cold killers that they dont want to hand over to us and then they escape into communities and they cause in some cases tremendous havoc.  Another vital element of federal and state cooperation is the relentless fight against opioids and the drug epidemic. Weve had great progress. Were down 1819 and 20% in some of the communities. First Ladys been very much involved in that. Kellyanne has been very much involved in that. A lot of the people in this room, almost everybody in this room has been involved in it. And I want to thank you for that. Were making progress. Very tough, all over the world. This is a problem all over the world. This is big problem here, but its a big problem almost everywhere.  For the first time in three decades, weve achieved a decline in drug overdose deaths, including as an example, Ohio. Mike is around here someplace. Mike. Mike, Mike, 23% in Ohio. 19% in Pennsylvania. 10% in Wisconsin, and were averaging probably about 16, 17%, so its been its not enough, but were making a lot of progress and if we had more help in Congress, we could get it even lower.  My administration is truly grateful for the leadership, cooperation, partnership, and friendship of the governors in this room. No matter our party, we must work together and really do the job and I think thats whats happening. Our country is now receiving thousands and thousands of companies that are coming into the United States. Some had left and some had never been here before, but they all want to be where the action is. We lost 60,000 plants and factories over the year, 60,000. Its hard to even conceive and weve got many of them back and many are coming back and theyre moving to a lot of your states. I know a lot of them are coming into Texas and Florida and a lot of different locations. South Carolina, North Carolina, Pennsylvania. Its incredible whats happening. Ohio is a big beneficiary.  Michigan is a tremendous beneficiary with the car companies, tremendous. Somebody was saying theyre so happy in Michigan. And I meet with a Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I say, Shinz you have to get more car companies here. We have a deficit with you. You have to get them in. And they are. Theyre sending a lot of companies. We hadnt built a plant in years and years, in decades frankly. And now we have car plants being built all over the United States and we have expansions, a lot of expansions of existing plants. So its been really an incredible thing.  Were doing incredible work and were the number one country in the world right now in terms of the economy. When I was running and long before I was running, Id always heard that China, have great respect for President Xi and great respect for China frankly, but that China was going to be the number one economy in the world during 2019. Actually it was 2018, 2019, you all heard it, that we were going to go to number two. And I will tell you we had our battle and we took in hundreds of billions of dollars in tariffs and other things and you saw the it was just announced, the trade deficit was the lowest its been in years with China. Just happened two days ago. They just announced. But we are now so far ahead of China in terms of the size of our economy that if somebody is smart thats at this position for times into the future, hopefully after five years, I wont joke by saying 9, 13, 15 it drives them crazy. For the governors it drives them even when I joke, it drives them crazy. So I wont say that.  But if somebody smart is in this position, itll never happen, which I know over Texas, itll never happen. So we right now have were so far ahead of them. Theyre not catching us for a long time. If the wrong person stands here or sits in the White House, that beautiful chair in the White House, in the Oval Office, sure theyre going to catch you. They have 1.5 billion people. We have 350 million people, but we have a very special place and a very special country and nobodys going to catch us if we have great leadership. And you have been great leaders for your states and we appreciate very much that youre at the White House. Thank you very much.  So what were going to do is I thought maybe we could take a few questions if you want. We could leave the press there. The press would love that, Im sure. Or we could have them leave and we could talk in a different fashion. You wont have to show boat. So would anybody preference. Well leave them here for a little while and then well go a different route perhaps. Any questions, please? Please. Were doing a big infrastructure potential deal. We need, obviously, we need help from we need the votes of Democrats. Theyve been so focused on something else and wasting a lot of peoples time. Although my poll numbers have been driven way the hell up, so thats one way to do it I guess. But they have been so focused on the impeachment hoax that they havent had time to do anything else, but were ready to go with a big infrastructure bill, if theyre ready to approve it.  Were also ready to lower drug prices very substantially. We did last year was the first time in 51 years that drug prices, prescription drug prices went down first time in 51 years. But to get them really down, we have to do exactly what were doing, where we have we need the votes of the Democrats and they just didnt have the time to do anything. So maybe they will now have the time, but were all ready to go on infrastructure, on reducing drug prices. Very substantial. We can reduce drug prices unbelievably easily and substantially, but we have to get Democrat votes. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Governor. Please. Europe has been treating us very badly. European Union was really formed so they could treat us badly, so theyve done their job. That was one of the primary reasons, but they treat us badly there and they treat us badly frankly on NATO. But NATO Ive gotten, as you know, $130 billion more they will pay because NATO was going down like a rocket ship. Our past leaders would go over and make a speech and leave. I went over, made a speech and said, You got to pay more, because the United States was paying everything. Essentially they were paying close to 100% and I let them know you have no choice and they are paying more. They paid 130 billion.  I think my biggest fan of the whole world is Secretary General Stoltenberg, head of NATO. He said he cant believe it, because for 20 years it went down. Its like a roller coaster there. No, no none of this just down. They paid less and less and less and it got more expensive and more expensive with time. But I raised $130 billion my first meeting and I raised 400 billion my second meeting. So now its in good shape. But we were taken advantage of by a lot of countries, a lot of allies frankly. Sometimes allies do a better job on you than the enemy, because the enemies you watch out for, right?  So Pete, I think that the next thing could be Europe where we talk to them very seriously and they have to do it, because theres been, over the last 10 12 years, theres been a tremendous deficit with Europe. They have barriers that are incredible. I didnt want to do them while we were doing China, Japan, South Korea. I didnt want to do the whole world at one time. Does that make sense? People have learned that doesnt work out too well, even on trade.  So were going to be starting that. They know that. They know that. Theyre ready for it. We made a good deal with Japan. Were going to do a bigger, much more comprehensive deal, but were taking in 40 billion from Japan, which they didnt expect. Nobody expected. Weve done great on the trade. Its going to have a tremendous impact.  Now the virus that were talking about having to do a lot of people think that goes away in April with the heat, as the heat comes in. Typically, that will go away at April. Were in great shape though. We have 12 cases, 11 cases and many of them are in good shape now. So, but a very good question. Yes, please, Colorado. Well, we almost had a deal on that with the Democrats as you know. It was done. And then we lost a decision and the Democrats said, Trump, whos that? Trump, whos that? But we were very close to having a deal on the dreamers with the House and with the Senate, would have been very good deal for everybody. And so were looking at that.  But now were before the Supreme Court. I think were going to win, because if we dont win, that gives the President of the United States unbelievable powers. President Obama signed that bill, it was an executive order. And when he signed that, he said essentially he said, I dont have the right to do this, but Im going to do it anyway. And he was upheld by a judge and anyway, itll be before the Supreme Court pretty soon and at some point I think well probably make a deal on that. I do feel that way. Okay, good question. Question. Yes please. Gary. Hows Mitt Romney? You keep them. We dont want him. Go ahead. Doing a great job in Utah by the way. Go ahead Gary. Yeah, I agree. Were putting out a plan today that over a period of not that long a period of time, brings our budget and our deficit down to what it should be, which is close to zero. And I think people are going to be very impressed by it. Were not touching Medicare. We want to keep Medicare. Were not touching social security. Were making our country stronger again. Were not decreasing Medicaid, but were doing a lot of things that are very good, including waste and fraud, tremendous waste and tremendous fraud. So what were doing that, in terms of certain programs. And were taking good care of our military, were increasing spending on our nuclear program, because we have no choice, because of what China is doing, what Russia is doing in particular. And so we have a very big number in for that. Now, at the same time, Russia and China both want to negotiate with us to stop this craziness of spending billions and billions of dollars nuclear weapon.   This craziness of spending billions and billions of dollars on nuclear weapons, but the only way until we have that agreement, the only thing I can do is create by far the strongest nuclear force center in the world. Which as you know, over the last three years, weve very much upgraded our nuclear, but were buying new, we have the superfast missiles, tremendous number of the superfast. We call them superfast, where theyre four, five, six and even seven times faster than an ordinary missile. We need that because again, Russia has some, I wont tell you how they got it. They got it supposedly from plans from the Obama Administration when we werent doing it. And thats too bad. Thats not good. But thats how it happened. And China, as you know, is doing it.  We have a tremendous $740 billion for military. But again, its also jobs in the United States. So its everythings made in the United States proudly. And we have the best in the world. We have the best equipment in the world, the best missiles, planes, rockets. Everybody wants our equipment. We have to be very selective obviously, but were going to have a very good budget with a very powerful military budget because we have no choice about that. Ron, do you have something about, for instance, your plan of buying and cutting prescription drugs? You want to tell them what were doing? You can go, and Colorado is doing that, also, you can go to certain countries and the exact same pill made in the exact same plant, factory wherever it may be from one of the big companies, will sell for 50%, 60%, 70% less than the United States is paying because its broken. Its a broken system. And so one of the things Ive authorized is that certain states have requested probably after this, everybody in this room will go back, but, but if we buy from Canada, youll save 50% at this moment.  Now that may go up or everything may come down. One thing is going to happen or another, either the drug companies are going to raise it and not make it possible to buy. Theyre going to raise it in Canada, meaning so you wont be able to do it. Or everyones going to go down because they have a middleman in the middle of that are making a fortune. Nobody knows who these people are, but theyre getting rich because we had a broken system and its about time it gets fixed.  So a lot of shakeup is going to take place, but if we had Democrats helping us, we could solve this problem in one day, but they dont want to vote. Again, they dont have any time to vote. They dont have any time to do anything other than what they do. So they seem to be freed up a lot now. Theyre freed up a lot actually I hear. How about a couple of more and then well let the press go and relax and take it easy. Please, Governor. Thank you. Yes. So as you know, its gone down. I met with President Xi on the trade deal. And I said, You have to stop fentanyl coming into our country. You have to do me a favor and stop it. You have to get it stopped. It has to end because its a favor for our country and were losing thousands and thousands of people to fentanyl. I mean, the size of a pinhead can kill a lot of people. Its unbelievably bad and they send it direct and they sent it through Mexico and through the border and we would catch a lot of it, but even if a little bit got through, its a very deadly drug. And they have cut it way back and theyve also criminalized It wasnt a criminal, they considered a corporate kind of a thing. It was a drug of a different nature and now they put it into their criminal statutes and criminal in China for drugs, by the way, means thats serious. Theyre getting a maximum penalty. And you know what the maximum penalty is in China for that and it goes very quickly.  Its interesting, where you have Singapore, they have very little drug problem. We have China, they have very little drug problem. States with a very powerful death penalty on drug dealers dont have a drug problem. I dont know that our country is ready for that, but if you look throughout the world, the countries with a powerful death penalty, death penalty with a fair but quick trial, they have very little if any drug problem that includes China. But theyve put fentanyl now into there, hes working on that and its gone down a lot as you know. They put it into their penalty system and people will be getting the death penalty in China now for fentanyl. It was a big thing. Its not part of the trade agreement, but it is part of the trade agreement. And they have acted on it.  Now, of course theyre working on something else and I think theyre doing a good job on that. On the virus. Had a long talk with President Xi for the people in this room two nights ago and he feels very confident. He feels very confident. And he feels that, again as I mentioned by April or during the month of April, the heat generally speaking kills this kind of virus. So that would be a good thing. But were in great shape in our country. We have 11 and the 11 are getting better. Okay, so great question. I think that fentanyl is a huge problem. Its almost at this moment to 100% made in China and they are starting to enforce it on our behalf. We have a good relationship with China now. Probably the best weve ever had. So I think what well do, any other questions from the governors? Yes please. So we did a big thing on healthcare. We got rid of the individual mandate on Obamacare, which basically made Obamacare not Obamacare anymore. It was the most unpopular thing in Obamacare and basically you paid a lot of money for the privilege of not paying to have bad healthcare and nobody wanted that. And we got rid it, big, big move and I had a choice. I can make so it really isnt Obamacare anymore but, we do as you know we left preexisting conditions and everything. We left it because preexisting well always have, and I think I can speak for Democrats too, but we are all going to have preexisting conditions. We are always going to make sure that thats taken care of, the preexisting condition situation.  I think I can speak, I know I can speak for Republicans. I think I can speak for Democrats. Its a part of our society right down. Nobodys going to change it. If a law is overturned, thats okay because the new law is going to have it in the new law would replace the old law that was overturned it would have preexisting conditions. So I think thats important to say. But one thing that we will be doing is, at least from a Republican standpoint, you have 180 million people out there that have great health insurance. They love it, private health insurance, and were going to save it.  Other people are thinking about terminating it, which is brutal for unions and others. So I dont know how theyre going to get around that, but were going to be saving that. But when I took over, I had a choice. So we got rid of the most unpopular thing in Obamacare, almost got rid of Obamacare but essentially we did. But now I said, Do we run it really well or do we run it really poorly? Do we make everybody unhappy and blame the Democrats or do we make people relatively happy with a bad law? Its a bad law, its bad policy, but do we make people relatively happy. And I chose, I felt I had an obligation to do the latter. So its been working out pretty well and it goes along and weve done block grants, weve done a lot of different things with different states and its tailor made for different states.  We are doing things for states. Some people want block grants, some people want something else. And were working with individual states and I think governors are really happy and really surprised that were doing that. I could have just a cold lined it and just said were not doing anything and everybody would be happy. Everybody would be complaining. But I think the best thing for our country to do is the way were doing it until we get a replacement for Obamacare, a full replacement thats going to be great. And I would say this, if we change the House, if we get the House, the Republicans get the House back, we will have that.  Otherwise well just have to negotiate with the Democrats. And I think at some point theyll come around and start negotiating these things because they really are good. So media, thank you very much we appreciate it and well have a little more discussion. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Its a great honor to have you at the White House, a very special place. Beautiful and so meaningful in so many ways and our country has never done better. Youre all doing really well. Every state is doing well. I can say most every state in the room today is setting records and wed like to think that the federal government has been helping you a lot, but it is wonderful being with you and we had a great evening last night, and the talent of those musicians, they could be anywhere in the world. Many of them could work in the great opera houses, but they loved the military.  When you heard the violins and the talent, the great talent, I dont know if anybody has an ear for music. Believe it or not, a long time ago, I was told I have a great ear for music by somebody. I took a test. They said, He has a wonderful aptitude for music. I said, I do? But would you listen to that? Its really incredible, the talent, and theyre great people. They want to be in the military. They dont want to be anywhere else. So its really, really something.  As I said in my State of the Union last week, were in the midst of a great American comeback with the help of many of the people in this room, and youve done really a fantastic job. I think I can say just about everybody. Ill say just about just in case some day somebodys going to run or do something that I wont like and I can have a little bit of an out when I say just about. I said, No, he was included in the just about. But were creating the most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society ever to exist, actually.  Since my election, Americas gained seven million new jobs. We added 225,000 jobs in January alone, crushing expectations. The unemployment rate reached the lowest level in 50 years, and a statistic thats incredible to me is the average unemployment that weve had during this three-year period is the lowest of the history of our country compared to any other administration. The lowest of the history of our country. The unemployment rate for African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-Americans have reached the lowest level ever recorded.  Low income workers have seen a 16% pay increase since my election. Something thats so great to see. When I campaigned, they hadnt had rate increases, pay increases, for 20 years, 21 years. They were working three jobs and two jobs and making less money than theyd been made 20 years ago. Median household income, as you all know very well, is the highest ever recorded by far. Since 2016, 28 states have reached or matched their lowest unemployment rate on record. So we have 28 and I think soon were going to have just about everybody.  And at the end of last year, a record 39 states had unemployment below 4%. Again, another record. Just as I promised during my campaign, were fighting every day to expand opportunity for African-American communities all across our country. African-American youth, we have such great news on African-American youth. Unemployment has reached its lowest level ever recorded. Its a great statistic. African-American poverty rates have plummeted to their lowest rate ever in history and wages for African-American workers have increased $2,400 a year. Thats also a record.  At the center of our economic agenda, or opportunity zones, I hope youre embracing them. I think many of you are. My administration has worked with the governors in this room to create nearly 9,000 opportunity zones in our most vulnerable communities. Jobs and money are pouring into these areas that have never seen investment. I mean, they havent seen them in decades and decades and decades, and hundreds of millions of dollars are pouring into certain communities, individual communities, hundreds of millions of dollars. And its never been anything like it. Opportunity zones. Tim Scott did a great job on that. Senator Tim Scott.  I urge all governors to create a state-level version of our White House opportunity and revitalization council to coordinate the efforts of state government to provide maximum support for the opportunities and say, Were there to help you. If you have a problem, call me, literally call me and well work it out. But the opportunity zones, and thats Democrat or Republican, by the way, opportunities have been fantastic. We must not stop until we have delivered equal and abundant opportunity for every community in our land, and thats whats happening. To give former prisoners a second chance.  This has worked better than any program, ever. I was proud to sign the landmark criminal justice reform into law, and since that time, 10 states have passed legislation following our lead and there were numerous states, I know Texas was there, governor with criminal justice reform. Amazing. And Kentucky and few others that were thought of as being very strict states, and yet they had criminal justice reform. We looked at a lot of what Texas did and some of the other states, what worked so well. Alice Johnson is an example. She was in for 22 years and she had another 20 years to serve on something that everythings bad, but to be in jail for 40 and 50 years for what Alice did on a telephone was crazy.  Thanks to our roaring economy, former inmates are now finding jobs and the employers are so happy now. The economy is really helping, but its the first time ever were prisoners coming out of jail are finding jobs, loving it, and the employers, the feedback were getting from so many people, so many employers are, these are among the best people they have and they were in a way forced by the economy, the good economy, because its hard to get people. Down to 3.5, and actually, it went to 3.6 because were opening up the valve, theyre hiring more and more people.  There was a positive, 225,000 as I said, but the prisoners are now working and theyre doing a phenomenal job, for the most part. Our booming prosperity is being fueled by our historic regulatory reduction campaign and my first month in office, I imposed a two-for-one rule requiring for every one new regulation, two old ones must be eliminated. Well, that turned out to be  We went to four, we went to six, we went to eight. We had a period where we were at 22:1, 22:1, and were eliminating on average $3,100 in regulation cost per family a year. Nobodys ever even heard of such a thing, and were getting housing bill, too.  We have rules and regulations, made it impossible. I hope California gets their act together because the cost of regulations is almost the cost of a house and they need housing and they cant build it. They dont know what theyre doing. The governors initiative or regulatory innovation is designed to continue our unprecedented progress through straight estate level deregulation. Governor Doug Ducey has achieved three for one on cuts  Wheres Doug? Good job, Doug. Well, he only won by about 17%, so, you know, he should be doing good. In fact, at 17%, you should be at 4:1, I think, right? Thats a big win, big one. That was a great win.  And Governor Kevin Stitt of Oklahoma has reached two for one and going to three for one. Wheres Kevin? Hi, Kevin. Good job. Great. Were also working together  And many of you in the room have done much better than one-for-one, much better. Some of you are up to four. Were also working together to reform occupational licensing. Just this year at least 12 governors have taken action to reduce burdensome occupational licensing requirements. That means licensing where either its unnecessary, or where you actually can do it very quickly.  There are some licensing requirements that takes years to get approved and it could take a matter of days, could take a matter of days. Governors understand the need to get infrastructure projects quickly approved to speed up permitting and reduced traffic congestion. Last month, we issued a proposed new rule to reduce permitting and the permitting time for new infrastructure by more than 70%. Highways that were taking 12 years to get approved, 14, 15, 17, 21 years. Were trying to get it down to one year.  That means you may get rejected if you have an environmental problem or safety problem. In many cases, these highways became much more unsafe and they took a long time because they try and get away from certain problems, including nesting, but they try and get away and instead of having a straight run, theyd create curves in the highway, which obviously, make it much more dangerous. And they had problems with some of those highways and theyre much more expensive to build.  Not only the time, the design, but the time. I mean, by the time they get an approved. So, we have highways that would take 21 years. We have roads that took 10 years, 11 years, 12 years to get approved. And Elaine Chao has been fantastic. Elaine, thank you very much. The job youre doing with transportation, we appreciate it very much. And Jeff, you were over there for a long while. I will tell you, so I have to give you at least partial credit. Right now, youre at a different location, but you really did. You did a great job on that.  So we have it down to two years now, but I think were going to get it down to one and very good chance youll be rejected if it doesnt meet environmental standards and tests. And we are rescuing students from failing government schools by introducing the Education, Freedom, Scholarships and Opportunity Act, which will replicate the great success of tax credit scholarships available in 18 states. We believe very strongly, or at least many of the people in this room, not all of them, but believe very strongly in school choice. Were also working closely with the States to improve public safety.  This includes the incredible work being done by our nations heroic ICE officers. Weve moved thousands of MS-13 out of the country back to where they came from, whether its Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Mexico. And as you know, we reached agreements with those countries so that we can do that. And the past administration, they wouldnt accept them. They come from one of the countries, tough countries, and we would send them back and they wouldnt take them. Not me. They take them now. Now they say, Thank you so much for sending them back. We were looking for this killer. Thank you very much. We appreciate it.  But they all take them now. They take them very quickly before they used to say, Dont ever even think about landing that airplane. We dont want those people. So they take them back rapidly. Some day, theyll tell the real story as to why, but thats the way it has to be. We have thousands and thousands of killers and gang members that were bringing back to countries that now accept them. They were not taking them back. Last year alone, ICE officers arrested 120,000 criminal aliens charged with nearly 10,000 burglaries, 5,000 sexual assaults, 45,000 violent assaults, and 2,000 murders.  Now, some of them we keep here when they  Its very egregious. We dont necessarily trust other people to take care of justice, so we keep them here. But we dont like having people in our prisons for 50 years, 60 years, and we have to pay for it. And so, for the most part, we bring them back to their countries and give them a very bad recommendation. State and local cooperation is the backbone of this effort. We have a tremendous relationship with-  It is the backbone of this effort. We have a tremendous relationship with many of the states and governments, cities. Its essential that all of our states and cities honor ICE detainer requests to ensure that safe transfer of criminal aliens into federal custody takes place. Jurisdictions that adopt sanctuary policies and instead release these criminals, put all of Americans in harms way. A very, very serious problem. I mean were all here for the same thing. I know we have different policies, different feelings, different everything, but sanctuary cities are causing us a tremendous problem in this country. We have stone cold killers that they dont want to hand over to us and then they escape into communities and they cause in some cases tremendous havoc.  Another vital element of federal and state cooperation is the relentless fight against opioids and the drug epidemic. Weve had great progress. Were down 1819 and 20% in some of the communities. First Ladys been very much involved in that. Kellyanne has been very much involved in that. A lot of the people in this room, almost everybody in this room has been involved in it. And I want to thank you for that. Were making progress. Very tough, all over the world. This is a problem all over the world. This is big problem here, but its a big problem almost everywhere.  For the first time in three decades, weve achieved a decline in drug overdose deaths, including as an example, Ohio. Mike is around here someplace. Mike. Mike, Mike, 23% in Ohio. 19% in Pennsylvania. 10% in Wisconsin, and were averaging probably about 16, 17%, so its been its not enough, but were making a lot of progress and if we had more help in Congress, we could get it even lower.  My administration is truly grateful for the leadership, cooperation, partnership, and friendship of the governors in this room. No matter our party, we must work together and really do the job and I think thats whats happening. Our country is now receiving thousands and thousands of companies that are coming into the United States. Some had left and some had never been here before, but they all want to be where the action is. We lost 60,000 plants and factories over the year, 60,000. Its hard to even conceive and weve got many of them back and many are coming back and theyre moving to a lot of your states. I know a lot of them are coming into Texas and Florida and a lot of different locations. South Carolina, North Carolina, Pennsylvania. Its incredible whats happening. Ohio is a big beneficiary.  Michigan is a tremendous beneficiary with the car companies, tremendous. Somebody was saying theyre so happy in Michigan. And I meet with a Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I say, Shinz you have to get more car companies here. We have a deficit with you. You have to get them in. And they are. Theyre sending a lot of companies. We hadnt built a plant in years and years, in decades frankly. And now we have car plants being built all over the United States and we have expansions, a lot of expansions of existing plants. So its been really an incredible thing.  Were doing incredible work and were the number one country in the world right now in terms of the economy. When I was running and long before I was running, Id always heard that China, have great respect for President Xi and great respect for China frankly, but that China was going to be the number one economy in the world during 2019. Actually it was 2018, 2019, you all heard it, that we were going to go to number two. And I will tell you we had our battle and we took in hundreds of billions of dollars in tariffs and other things and you saw the it was just announced, the trade deficit was the lowest its been in years with China. Just happened two days ago. They just announced. But we are now so far ahead of China in terms of the size of our economy that if somebody is smart thats at this position for times into the future, hopefully after five years, I wont joke by saying 9, 13, 15 it drives them crazy. For the governors it drives them even when I joke, it drives them crazy. So I wont say that.  But if somebody smart is in this position, itll never happen, which I know over Texas, itll never happen. So we right now have were so far ahead of them. Theyre not catching us for a long time. If the wrong person stands here or sits in the White House, that beautiful chair in the White House, in the Oval Office, sure theyre going to catch you. They have 1.5 billion people. We have 350 million people, but we have a very special place and a very special country and nobodys going to catch us if we have great leadership. And you have been great leaders for your states and we appreciate very much that youre at the White House. Thank you very much.  So what were going to do is I thought maybe we could take a few questions if you want. We could leave the press there. The press would love that, Im sure. Or we could have them leave and we could talk in a different fashion. You wont have to show boat. So would anybody preference. Well leave them here for a little while and then well go a different route perhaps. Any questions, please? Please. Were doing a big infrastructure potential deal. We need, obviously, we need help from we need the votes of Democrats. Theyve been so focused on something else and wasting a lot of peoples time. Although my poll numbers have been driven way the hell up, so thats one way to do it I guess. But they have been so focused on the impeachment hoax that they havent had time to do anything else, but were ready to go with a big infrastructure bill, if theyre ready to approve it.  Were also ready to lower drug prices very substantially. We did last year was the first time in 51 years that drug prices, prescription drug prices went down first time in 51 years. But to get them really down, we have to do exactly what were doing, where we have we need the votes of the Democrats and they just didnt have the time to do anything. So maybe they will now have the time, but were all ready to go on infrastructure, on reducing drug prices. Very substantial. We can reduce drug prices unbelievably easily and substantially, but we have to get Democrat votes. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Governor. Please. Europe has been treating us very badly. European Union was really formed so they could treat us badly, so theyve done their job. That was one of the primary reasons, but they treat us badly there and they treat us badly frankly on NATO. But NATO Ive gotten, as you know, $130 billion more they will pay because NATO was going down like a rocket ship. Our past leaders would go over and make a speech and leave. I went over, made a speech and said, You got to pay more, because the United States was paying everything. Essentially they were paying close to 100% and I let them know you have no choice and they are paying more. They paid 130 billion.  I think my biggest fan of the whole world is Secretary General Stoltenberg, head of NATO. He said he cant believe it, because for 20 years it went down. Its like a roller coaster there. No, no none of this just down. They paid less and less and less and it got more expensive and more expensive with time. But I raised $130 billion my first meeting and I raised 400 billion my second meeting. So now its in good shape. But we were taken advantage of by a lot of countries, a lot of allies frankly. Sometimes allies do a better job on you than the enemy, because the enemies you watch out for, right?  So Pete, I think that the next thing could be Europe where we talk to them very seriously and they have to do it, because theres been, over the last 10 12 years, theres been a tremendous deficit with Europe. They have barriers that are incredible. I didnt want to do them while we were doing China, Japan, South Korea. I didnt want to do the whole world at one time. Does that make sense? People have learned that doesnt work out too well, even on trade.  So were going to be starting that. They know that. They know that. Theyre ready for it. We made a good deal with Japan. Were going to do a bigger, much more comprehensive deal, but were taking in 40 billion from Japan, which they didnt expect. Nobody expected. Weve done great on the trade. Its going to have a tremendous impact.  Now the virus that were talking about having to do a lot of people think that goes away in April with the heat, as the heat comes in. Typically, that will go away at April. Were in great shape though. We have 12 cases, 11 cases and many of them are in good shape now. So, but a very good question. Yes, please, Colorado. Well, we almost had a deal on that with the Democrats as you know. It was done. And then we lost a decision and the Democrats said, Trump, whos that? Trump, whos that? But we were very close to having a deal on the dreamers with the House and with the Senate, would have been very good deal for everybody. And so were looking at that.  But now were before the Supreme Court. I think were going to win, because if we dont win, that gives the President of the United States unbelievable powers. President Obama signed that bill, it was an executive order. And when he signed that, he said essentially he said, I dont have the right to do this, but Im going to do it anyway. And he was upheld by a judge and anyway, itll be before the Supreme Court pretty soon and at some point I think well probably make a deal on that. I do feel that way. Okay, good question. Question. Yes please. Gary. Hows Mitt Romney? You keep them. We dont want him. Go ahead. Doing a great job in Utah by the way. Go ahead Gary. Yeah, I agree. Were putting out a plan today that over a period of not that long a period of time, brings our budget and our deficit down to what it should be, which is close to zero. And I think people are going to be very impressed by it. Were not touching Medicare. We want to keep Medicare. Were not touching social security. Were making our country stronger again. Were not decreasing Medicaid, but were doing a lot of things that are very good, including waste and fraud, tremendous waste and tremendous fraud. So what were doing that, in terms of certain programs. And were taking good care of our military, were increasing spending on our nuclear program, because we have no choice, because of what China is doing, what Russia is doing in particular. And so we have a very big number in for that. Now, at the same time, Russia and China both want to negotiate with us to stop this craziness of spending billions and billions of dollars nuclear weapon.   This craziness of spending billions and billions of dollars on nuclear weapons, but the only way until we have that agreement, the only thing I can do is create by far the strongest nuclear force center in the world. Which as you know, over the last three years, weve very much upgraded our nuclear, but were buying new, we have the superfast missiles, tremendous number of the superfast. We call them superfast, where theyre four, five, six and even seven times faster than an ordinary missile. We need that because again, Russia has some, I wont tell you how they got it. They got it supposedly from plans from the Obama Administration when we werent doing it. And thats too bad. Thats not good. But thats how it happened. And China, as you know, is doing it.  We have a tremendous $740 billion for military. But again, its also jobs in the United States. So its everythings made in the United States proudly. And we have the best in the world. We have the best equipment in the world, the best missiles, planes, rockets. Everybody wants our equipment. We have to be very selective obviously, but were going to have a very good budget with a very powerful military budget because we have no choice about that. Ron, do you have something about, for instance, your plan of buying and cutting prescription drugs? You want to tell them what were doing? You can go, and Colorado is doing that, also, you can go to certain countries and the exact same pill made in the exact same plant, factory wherever it may be from one of the big companies, will sell for 50%, 60%, 70% less than the United States is paying because its broken. Its a broken system. And so one of the things Ive authorized is that certain states have requested probably after this, everybody in this room will go back, but, but if we buy from Canada, youll save 50% at this moment.  Now that may go up or everything may come down. One thing is going to happen or another, either the drug companies are going to raise it and not make it possible to buy. Theyre going to raise it in Canada, meaning so you wont be able to do it. Or everyones going to go down because they have a middleman in the middle of that are making a fortune. Nobody knows who these people are, but theyre getting rich because we had a broken system and its about time it gets fixed.  So a lot of shakeup is going to take place, but if we had Democrats helping us, we could solve this problem in one day, but they dont want to vote. Again, they dont have any time to vote. They dont have any time to do anything other than what they do. So they seem to be freed up a lot now. Theyre freed up a lot actually I hear. How about a couple of more and then well let the press go and relax and take it easy. Please, Governor. Thank you. Yes. So as you know, its gone down. I met with President Xi on the trade deal. And I said, You have to stop fentanyl coming into our country. You have to do me a favor and stop it. You have to get it stopped. It has to end because its a favor for our country and were losing thousands and thousands of people to fentanyl. I mean, the size of a pinhead can kill a lot of people. Its unbelievably bad and they send it direct and they sent it through Mexico and through the border and we would catch a lot of it, but even if a little bit got through, its a very deadly drug. And they have cut it way back and theyve also criminalized It wasnt a criminal, they considered a corporate kind of a thing. It was a drug of a different nature and now they put it into their criminal statutes and criminal in China for drugs, by the way, means thats serious. Theyre getting a maximum penalty. And you know what the maximum penalty is in China for that and it goes very quickly.  Its interesting, where you have Singapore, they have very little drug problem. We have China, they have very little drug problem. States with a very powerful death penalty on drug dealers dont have a drug problem. I dont know that our country is ready for that, but if you look throughout the world, the countries with a powerful death penalty, death penalty with a fair but quick trial, they have very little if any drug problem that includes China. But theyve put fentanyl now into there, hes working on that and its gone down a lot as you know. They put it into their penalty system and people will be getting the death penalty in China now for fentanyl. It was a big thing. Its not part of the trade agreement, but it is part of the trade agreement. And they have acted on it.  Now, of course theyre working on something else and I think theyre doing a good job on that. On the virus. Had a long talk with President Xi for the people in this room two nights ago and he feels very confident. He feels very confident. And he feels that, again as I mentioned by April or during the month of April, the heat generally speaking kills this kind of virus. So that would be a good thing. But were in great shape in our country. We have 11 and the 11 are getting better. Okay, so great question. I think that fentanyl is a huge problem. Its almost at this moment to 100% made in China and they are starting to enforce it on our behalf. We have a good relationship with China now. Probably the best weve ever had. So I think what well do, any other questions from the governors? Yes please. So we did a big thing on healthcare. We got rid of the individual mandate on Obamacare, which basically made Obamacare not Obamacare anymore. It was the most unpopular thing in Obamacare and basically you paid a lot of money for the privilege of not paying to have bad healthcare and nobody wanted that. And we got rid it, big, big move and I had a choice. I can make so it really isnt Obamacare anymore but, we do as you know we left preexisting conditions and everything. We left it because preexisting well always have, and I think I can speak for Democrats too, but we are all going to have preexisting conditions. We are always going to make sure that thats taken care of, the preexisting condition situation.  I think I can speak, I know I can speak for Republicans. I think I can speak for Democrats. Its a part of our society right down. Nobodys going to change it. If a law is overturned, thats okay because the new law is going to have it in the new law would replace the old law that was overturned it would have preexisting conditions. So I think thats important to say. But one thing that we will be doing is, at least from a Republican standpoint, you have 180 million people out there that have great health insurance. They love it, private health insurance, and were going to save it.  Other people are thinking about terminating it, which is brutal for unions and others. So I dont know how theyre going to get around that, but were going to be saving that. But when I took over, I had a choice. So we got rid of the most unpopular thing in Obamacare, almost got rid of Obamacare but essentially we did. But now I said, Do we run it really well or do we run it really poorly? Do we make everybody unhappy and blame the Democrats or do we make people relatively happy with a bad law? Its a bad law, its bad policy, but do we make people relatively happy. And I chose, I felt I had an obligation to do the latter. So its been working out pretty well and it goes along and weve done block grants, weve done a lot of different things with different states and its tailor made for different states.  We are doing things for states. Some people want block grants, some people want something else. And were working with individual states and I think governors are really happy and really surprised that were doing that. I could have just a cold lined it and just said were not doing anything and everybody would be happy. Everybody would be complaining. But I think the best thing for our country to do is the way were doing it until we get a replacement for Obamacare, a full replacement thats going to be great. And I would say this, if we change the House, if we get the House, the Republicans get the House back, we will have that.  Otherwise well just have to negotiate with the Democrats. And I think at some point theyll come around and start negotiating these things because they really are good. So media, thank you very much we appreciate it and well have a little more discussion. Thank you very much."
"Well, Chip, thank you very much. And my fellow race fans, there is no greater thrill than to join you at the World Center of Racing for the 62nd Daytona 500. So exciting. The Daytona 500 is a legendary display of roaring engines, soaring spirits of the American skills, speed, and power, that weve been hearing about for so many years. The tens of thousands of patriots here today, have come for the fast cars in the world-class Motorsports, but NASCAR fans never forget, that no matter who wins the race, what matters most is God, family and country.  Joining us today are Gold Star Families whose loved ones made the supreme sacrifice to defend our freedom and our flag, to Edgar and Jennifer Bill, George Lutz, and Gold Star Families everywhere, throughout our land, your fallen warriors will live in our hearts forever. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.  Were also grateful to be joined by staff Sergeant David Bellavia, who I was privileged last year to award the Congressional Medal of Honor, a very brave man. Thank you, David. Thank you, David. Thank you.  This afternoon, we congratulate all of the new enlistees in the United States Armed Forces, and there are plenty and they love our country. A few moments ago, these young men and women took a solemn oath to put their lives on the line for our country. To each of them and to every service member and veteran here today, as Commander in Chief of the greatest fighting-force on the planet, a force that just spent 2.5 trillion dollars on rebuilding our military, I want to thank you for your service.  Now we approach the moment that youve all been waiting for. Soon the car will take to the track for the start, tires will screech, rubber will burn, fans will scream, and the great American race will begin. For 500 heart-pounding miles, these fierce competitors will chase the checkered flag, fight for the Harley J. Earl trophy, and make their play for pure American glory. And thats what it is, pure American glory.  As we wait for the green flag, we give thanks to this beloved country, for the heroes who keep us safe, and for the God who made us free. To all of the drivers, technicians, and pit crews here today, good luck and may the best team win. God bless you. God bless our military. God bless our veterans and God bless America. Have a great race. Thank you."
"Well, Chip, thank you very much. And my fellow race fans, there is no greater thrill than to join you at the World Center of Racing for the 62nd Daytona 500. So exciting. The Daytona 500 is a legendary display of roaring engines, soaring spirits of the American skills, speed, and power, that weve been hearing about for so many years. The tens of thousands of patriots here today, have come for the fast cars in the world-class Motorsports, but NASCAR fans never forget, that no matter who wins the race, what matters most is God, family and country.  Joining us today are Gold Star Families whose loved ones made the supreme sacrifice to defend our freedom and our flag, to Edgar and Jennifer Bill, George Lutz, and Gold Star Families everywhere, throughout our land, your fallen warriors will live in our hearts forever. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.  Were also grateful to be joined by staff Sergeant David Bellavia, who I was privileged last year to award the Congressional Medal of Honor, a very brave man. Thank you, David. Thank you, David. Thank you.  This afternoon, we congratulate all of the new enlistees in the United States Armed Forces, and there are plenty and they love our country. A few moments ago, these young men and women took a solemn oath to put their lives on the line for our country. To each of them and to every service member and veteran here today, as Commander in Chief of the greatest fighting-force on the planet, a force that just spent 2.5 trillion dollars on rebuilding our military, I want to thank you for your service.  Now we approach the moment that youve all been waiting for. Soon the car will take to the track for the start, tires will screech, rubber will burn, fans will scream, and the great American race will begin. For 500 heart-pounding miles, these fierce competitors will chase the checkered flag, fight for the Harley J. Earl trophy, and make their play for pure American glory. And thats what it is, pure American glory.  As we wait for the green flag, we give thanks to this beloved country, for the heroes who keep us safe, and for the God who made us free. To all of the drivers, technicians, and pit crews here today, good luck and may the best team win. God bless you. God bless our military. God bless our veterans and God bless America. Have a great race. Thank you."
"Thank you. Great gentleman. Thats first thing they said to me when I walked in, But everybody knows who you are. I know who you are. 11 years of this. Thats fantastic. What a tremendous story. Thank you very much. Congratulations because Im going to give him an early congratulations, all right? Thats big stuff. Thats big stuff. So, thank you very much, Jon.  Two years I was honored to celebrate your story of faith and transformation as you stood with me in the Rose Garden of the White House. It was a great day, a beautiful day. Now, Im thrilled to come to Las Vegas Police Department. Thank you very much for being what a group that is. Thats some job you guys do. Some job you do. Lot of friends, too, lot of friends, to take part in your organizations HOPE for Prisoners graduation ceremony.  We are here to reaffirm that America is a nation that believes in redemption. Thats what its about, redemption. We believe in second chances and we want to bring returning citizens, great people, great people. In many cases, great people. And not in all cases. Im not going to be too politically correct, fellows, right? Not in all cases. But in many cases, we want to rebuild their lives, they want to rebuild their lives. They want to help us and rebuild our country. And please, everybody, please sit down. It was a little bit late with that one, wasnt it? Thank you. That feels better, doesnt it, huh?  But to the 29 graduates who returning to your families, you have paid your debt to society and shown a commitment to change. Youve overcome many challenges, broken free of addiction, learned new skills and replaced old habits with fresh resolve. And Jon told us just outside little while ago that its an incredible class. Incredible class of talent. That word talent is very important. And now you have a chance to begin a new chapter that you are proud to call your own. And I have little doubt youre going to be very, very successful. Your future does not have to be defined by the mistakes of the past. Today, we declare that you are made by God for a great and noble purpose and you understand that. I mean, its a great and noble purpose on your valued members of our American family. And we are determined to help you succeed and were going to work with you and youre going to work with Jon and everybody else in this really incredible place that youve all put together, Jon. And youre going to be so successful. Youre going to say, Im going to be more successful than Trump. Im going to be more  and Ill be happy if you do it. Ill tell you what. Ill be very happy about it. But as long as you work hard and follow the law and do your part, you contribute to your communities, your best days are just beginning. Best part of your life is beginning. I really believe that. And your greatest years are just ahead. And to all of the family members and loved ones who have been through so much of the graduates who joined us today, we know your journey has not been an easy one but your love and support make all of the difference. And we are tremendously grateful for the families, the loved ones. And I know theyre even more grateful because without them, you wouldnt be here. You wouldnt be here. So, I want to thank you.  And joining us for this ceremony are two leaders who have devoted so much to advancing medical cures to help people overcome the stranglehold of addiction. Sheldon and Miriam Adelson, and theyve been great friends of mine for a long time. Stand up, Sheldon. What a family. What a family. And Miriam is a doctor. A great doctor. She doesnt have to be a doctor. You can trust me. Her husband doesnt need the money. But she devotes her life, its the most important thing to her, to addiction. And every time she learns something new, and theres still plenty to learn, but shell call me and tell me what theyre learning about addiction and the job you do, Miriam, what youve done, Sheldon, just overall is incredible. Really good. Two great people. Just great people.  And they like a place called Israel very much. Would you say thats correct? Maybe I have to use the word love a place called Israel, right? Your case.  Thank you as well to Las Vegas mayor, Carolyn Goodman, for being here. Carolyn, thank you very much. Great, great job. And also the tireless advocate because Carolyn has been very much involved with criminal justice reform along with Jared Kushner, whos been very, very much involved. I dont know. I think  I think, Jared, Im starting  Wheres Jared? Thank you, Jared. Never wants any credit. He does a lot. He works hard. But thats working out very well, isnt it, Carolyn? And its working out well for everybody and tremendous support. And we had liberal support, we had conservative support and they came to me and they needed some help, and we got help from some very unexpected places. Votes, we needed votes. And we got some great people.  Republicans, in all cases in this case, but we got some great people to vote for criminal justice reform. So, in fact, very conservative republicans, so that was a good sign. Very bipartisan and it was a terrific thing, and we really, we did something that they been trying to do for a long time, and we got it done. We get a lot of things done. Get a lot of things done.  Now you see a lot of press back there, so before we go any further, I want to address todays sentencing of a man, Roger Stone. Roger Stone, hes become big part of the news over the last little while. And Im following this very closely, and I want to see it play out to its fullest because Roger has a very good chance of exoneration in my opinion. Ive known, and you people understand it probably better than anybody in the room, Ive known Roger Stone and his wife, whos really a terrific woman, for a long time. And Rogers definitely a character. Everybody sort of knows Roger. Everybody knows him. And most people like him. Some people probably dont. But I do, and I always have. Hes a smart guy. Hes a little different. But those are sometimes the most interesting. But hes a good person. His family is fantastic. Hes got a fantastic family. And theres always a reason for that, isnt there?  Roger was never involved in the Trump campaign for president. He wasnt involved. I think early on, long before I announced, he may have done a little consulting work or something, but he was not involved when I ran for president. And hes a person who, again, he knows a lot of people having to do with politics. His whole life is politics. Thats what he is. And its my strong opinion that the forewoman of the jury, the woman who was in charge of the jury is totally tainted. When you take a look, how can you have a person like this? She was a anti-Trump activist. Can you imagine this? Now you wouldnt know about a bad jury. Anybody here know about a bad  No?  These people know more about bad juries than everybody here including the sheriff and the mayor and everybody. They know about bad juries. Were not going to say it too much, though. Lets not say it in front of more cameras than this. But youre my experts, okay? No, but this is a woman who was an anti-Trump person, totally. Now, I dont know if this is a fact, but she had a horrible social media account. The things she said on the account were unbelievable. She didnt reveal that when she was chosen. And shes, I guess from what I hear, a very strong woman, a very dominant person, so she can get people to do whatever she wants. And she got on, then she became the foreperson, forewoman, on the jury.  And I assumed they asked her a question.  Do you have any bias? Do you have any  She didnt say that. So, is that a defrauding of the court? You tell me. But does this undermine our fair system of justice? How can you have a person like this? Did she delete her social account? And when Roger was determined by this same jury to be guilty before the judge issued a sentence, and he was determined to be guilty, and she started going a little wild. Shes very happy. And she started saying things and people said, Thats strange. Thats strange. And then they started looking in  How can you have a jury pool tainted so badly? Its not fair. Its not fair.  And you know, its not happening to a lot of other people because you can look, I wont name names, but everybody knows who Im talking about. Whats happening over there? Nobody. Nobody. There are people that are, even in Roger Stones basic business of politics, that were going to be in big trouble, well-known people, the biggest people, big trouble. They were forced to leave their firm. One man was forced to leave his firm and he was going to  Bad things were going to happen to him the following day. Nothing happened. Nothing happened. He was the biggest. Nothing happened. But it happened to Roger Stone, and it happened to General Flynn, and it happened to  I wont name names. It happened to a lot of people. And destroyed a lot of peoples lives. And Im here to make a fair system.  Again, Roger is not somebody who worked on my campaign. I know Roger but a lot of people know Roger. Everybody sort of knows Roger. And what happened to him is unbelievable. They say he lied. But other people lie too. Just to mention, Comey lied. McCabe lied. Lisa Page lied. Her lover, Strzok, Peter Strzok, lied. You dont know who these people are? Just trust me. They all lied. You had people that forged documents. You had people that wrote fake dossiers and brought them to the FBI and used people in the Justice Department to get them to the FBI. And these people know in the front row, you know better than anybody in this room what the hell Im talking about probably. So, Im only responding to you. Im not even talking to the folks over here. But they get it better than anybody, too. Lot of bad things are happening. Were cleaning it out. Were cleaning the swamp. Were draining the swamp. I just never knew how deep the swamp was. So, if this woman was tainted, I hope the judge will find that she was tainted. And if she isnt tainted, that will be fine too. But Im not going to do anything in terms of the great powers bestowed upon a president of the United States. I want the process to play out. I think thats the best thing to do because Id love to see Roger exonerated, and Id love to see it happen because I personally think he was treated very unfairly. They talk about witness tampering. But the man that he was tampering didnt seem to have much of a problem with it. In fact, they know each other for years.  And, its not like the tampering that I see on television when you watch a movie. Thats called tampering, with guns to peoples heads and lots of other things. So, were going to see what it is. Maybe there was tampering and maybe there wasnt. But, I can tell you that it was tremendous lying, really lying and leaking classified documents, that you dont know about. But they leaked classified documents. You know, there was a young sailor who took pictures of their old submarine and sent them to his mother and a friend and it destroyed his life. I let him out. They were considered classified. Now Russia and China, I guarantee you, have the pictures of the submarine for long time. The submarine was like 30 years old. They had them in the first year. They didnt have to wait for the 30th year.  But this is a famous story. And they had these pictures, and they put him in jail. He sent them to his mother and to his friend. His friend was not interested in what youre thinking, and there are many other cases where documents were leaked, even accidentally. Its so  Classified documents are so important that even if they are leaked accidentally  Hell, Hillary Clinton leaked more classified documents than any human being, I believe, in the history of the United States of America, right? And she deleted 33,000 emails. And she said, Oh  And by the way, if you did it? Five years, maybe more, okay? But youd never have access to classified. Very few people have access.  She deleted 33,000 emails. I kept waiting because you know, they can talk Benghazi, they can talk 100 different things. What people understand is when you get rid of this kind of evidence so the United States Congress said, they subpoenaed her. They wanted to see her emails. After getting the subpoena, she deleted 33,000 emails. And they said, You remember this? Yes, the emails were about her yoga classes, her exercising and her daughters wedding. 33,000 about her daughters wedding? That must have been the greatest wedding of all time. And nothing happened to her and yet theyll put a young sailor in an old submarine with a picture, couple of pictures, theyll put him into jail. And I pardoned him because it was unfair that she was able to do it at the highest level and his level wasnt  what he did, it was confidential. Confidentials a much lower class than classified.  So, I tell you this because its interesting. This is part of our nation. This is whats going on now. So, Im going to let this process play out. And, we want to have a great and fair court system and I hope you had a fair and wonderful court system, but perhaps you didnt. Perhaps you didnt. And if you didnt, we want to straighten it out but we have to straighten it out also at the top level. So, we had a lot of dirty cops, FBI is phenomenal. I love the people in the FBI. But the people at the top were dirty cops. And if you would have read the report written about Comey, 78 pages of kill, with a reference of, Go get him. They really said it. Go get him. And then you read about McCabe, and you see what they said. So bad. And were just waiting. Im not doing anything. Im just sitting here, standing here, talking to you. Were waiting.  So, I just want to let the fake news media know that  I just want to let them know, because theres few people more dishonest than these people, I will tell you that. And you have some very good ones. Hell of a lot more dishonest than most of you in the audience were.  Hell of a lot more dishonest than most of you in the audience were. But Im going to let the media know that Im going to watch the process. Im going to watch it very closely. And at some point Ill make a determination. But Roger Stone and everybody has to be treated fairly. And this has not been a fair process. Okay? Thank you.  So when I ran for president, I pledged to fight for those who have been forgotten, neglected, overlooked, and ignored by politicians in our nations capitol, and you understand that very well. For decades, no one was more forgotten than citizens coming out of prison who were ready to go into a brand new, beautiful start, but couldnt find a job. They couldnt find people who believed in them.  And one of the great things that happened is I and my administration and a lot of very talented people that work with me, we created the strongest economy in the history of our country. We have the best unemployment numbers. We have the best unemployment numbers for African American, best in history. Asian American, best in history. Hispanic American, best in history. Our country is booming. Wed never done better. Its the best economy weve ever had.  So when people come out, as an example yourselves, youre going to get great jobs. Ill tell you the end result, and we do studies on this. People with businesses are going to hire you. They want you more than you want them. This is the first time this has happened. Okay? This is the first time. They want you to do it and they wouldnt have given you that second chance. We call it second chance, but they wouldnt have given you that second, some cases a third chance. Thats okay. But they wouldnt have given you that second chance. Now theyre doing it because they need people, because the economy is so good.  And Ill tell you the end result. Employers are calling the numbers that were getting, the respect that youre getting from people that are doing the hiring, they cant even believe it. I had one gentleman, I talked to him, he had seven people came out of prison. Hes got seven people working for him. He said, Theyre among my best. He said, They are among my best people. He said, I cannot believe it. And you know what? Some businesses dont always work out. Im not going to say everybody is perfect, because its not. Nobodys you take a group, theres always going to be somebody who doesnt work out. But he said, I cant believe it. They are hes got seven now. Theyve been with him for quite a while. He said Theyre are among the best people Ive ever employed. He is so happy. Its going to happen with you. Its going to happen with them. What do you think? I think its going to happen with this group.  So once I came into office, leaders from all different backgrounds asked me to make changes to our criminal justice and the more I learned about the issue, big issue, the more I knew that criminal justice reform was really not about politics, because you have people that are for and against it on all different levels. Republican, Democrat, conservative, independent, liberal. Some love it, some dont love it, but theyre starting to love it. Were having tremendous success with it.  And its about doing the right thing, because Alice Johnson and Ive really gotten to know her well and shes an incredible person. And because of Alice, were taking in weve just let out three other people that she knew. And I say to people, and you may have references and recommendations when you were wherever you may have been. Frankly, you know some people that were really good people who Alice was in for 22 years. She had another 18 years to serve and for a crime, but not that kind of a crime. And I learned about Alice Johnson and when I learned it really is really something special. Shes an incredible woman. She came out of prison.  Youve seen the whole thing. We actually did a commercial on it. I did the commercial for people to see what this is all about. She came out you couldnt hire an actor in Hollywood to have the emotion and the love and the tears and everything. She came out and she saw her family who had totally grown up without her, and some big strong young men, some wonderful women, just all family. And she was grabbing them and they were all hugging and kissing outside of this massive prison wall. And they were just screaming with joy. It was an incredible thing to see. You couldnt do it. It had to be natural. It had to come from the heart. It had to come from the heart. So it was nice. And I said to Alice and I said to other people, and Ill say to you, and Ill say to you, youre going to have some recommendations. You think Im making a mistake with him? What do you think? Okay. Youre going to have some recommendations. I want your recommendations, because you have we have thousands of people in prison that have stories like Alice Johnson, thousands and thousands of people. And I love doing it. I love doing it. And you can be poor, you can be middle-income, you can be rich. Its injustice is injustice, but you have thousands of people that shouldnt be there. And I love finding those people. As you find them as you really think but you cant let me down. They got to be right, because there are some people you dont want to do this with. You do know that.  I said to Alice, So Alice, let me ask you, you have a lot of people like yourself, right? Yes. But you have bad people too, dont you? Yes, we do. Some very bad people. I said, Good, because I wouldnt want somebody to say no, everybodys good, because thats not the case. But shes given us great recommendations and shes a great woman.  To redress unfairness in the justice system, just over one year ago, I led the effort to pass the criminal justice reform, and others had tried and failed. They didnt try too hard because they know it couldnt be done. But we got it done. This law rolls back provisions of the really terrible 1994 Criminal Clinton Crime Law that disproportionately impacted the African American community. I mean they like Clinton, but they passed a law that was a disaster. You know that. But we did something about it. They were unable to do it all the way back. We did something about it.  And my recent budget provides over $400 million to expand vocational training, drug treatment, and critical reentry programs just like this one. Okay. You know that. He knows it. By enacting criminal justice reform, were sending a powerful message to prisoners who have reformed their lives. When you return to society, we are not going to leave you behind. Were not leaving you behind. But now we dont have the excuse of a bad economy. They used to have the excuse, well, we cant do it, the economys no good. The unemployment rates were very high. Were down to 3.5%. Were probably going lower and wages are going up, first time in 21 years. Theyre really going up and going up. Its a beautiful thing. If youre in my world, its a beautiful thing to watch. Its like a picture. Everyone in this room is here to make sure that you have the support that you need to succeed, thrive, and to never ever look back. Youre not going to look back. Were not going to look back.  And were joined today by many great pastors and faith leaders, some of whom I know pretty well, who trust the power of prayer and the mercy of God to transform their lives. And I want to thank you all for being here. Thank you. Great, great faith leaders. Thank you. Please stand up. Please stand up. Great. Thank you. Thank you, father. Great job. Actually been to a couple of their churches. Thank you very much.  Also with us or our employers of many different industries who are here to recruit you. Dont ask for too much. Just take it nice and easy. Dont forget they want to make a good deal, but you do too. But they want to recruit you for great jobs and theyre here. Who are the people that are looking? Who are the people, the employers please? Yeah, stand up please. Thats great. Thats good. Thats great. Great. Youre going to be happy. Youre going to be very happy.  Including the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce, who really has done a fantastic job over the years. Ive known how hard they work and what a great job they do. Stations Casinos, Martin and Harris Construction, civil work, general contractor, Silver State Transportation, Keolis Transit and Workforce Connections. And I want to thank you all and we have a lot of others outside that are coming in too, and youre going to have a lot of youre going to have a lot of fun. Its nice to be loved, right? Its nice to be wanted. Youre wanted. Youre wanted. Finally you are. Youre wanted. Right John?  Finally, were proudly, really proud to be joined by more than 80 men and women, these people are so incredible, of law enforcement. The job they do. Sheriff, the job please stand up. You dont know how much people respect you. You dont hear it. You dont hear it. People respect you like you wouldnt believe. So we just want to thank you all. The job you do is incredible, law enforcement. We honor your selfless service and bravery.  By the way, fire department also. I just left an area of the country where two firemen were just killed and a terrible. Up in certain portion of beautiful place in California where a building collapsed. Two people killed, two firemen killed, and we honor them. This took place yesterday, but theyre fantastic. But I want to thank law enforcement, because the job you do is incredible and the respect that people have for you, youll never know how strong it is. Its strong and I think its stronger now than ever before. And now you have an administration that loves you, backs you. We give you the equipment that you need. We gave billions of dollars of equipment. We had surplus equipment, military equipment, incredible stuff sitting in hundreds of warehouses all over the United States. And for some reason other people didnt want to give it out. But I gave it out and I assume you got some of it right? You got some of it. I know the man, he probably got most of it. Right? Thats good. It keeps you safe.  As you know, Hope for Prisoners has pioneered a mentorship program with law enforcement, which has given strength and support to former inmates like Lois Hockersmith and she joins us today. Lois. Wheres Lois? For many years, Lois struggled with addiction. In May of 2012, she found herself pregnant and in jail. After she served her time, Lois participated in Hope for Prisoners program. She graduated in 2013 and since then Lois has stayed totally sober. Shes earned back custody of her precious, beautiful son and she is one of the best case managers here at Hope for Prisoners. Is that right? Thats good, thats great. Thank you. Wow. Come on up here, Lois. Come on up here. Through it all, Lois has been encouraged by her mentor who is the same officer who arrested her nearly eight years ago. Lieutenant Steve Riback, who also joins us today. Hey Steve, come on up. Is Steve here? Steve is here. Steve, come up.  Thank you. Hey, whoa, hes good looking, huh? Come here. Thank you. Thank you. Well, were with you 100%. Its good. Please. You like to say something?  Thank you. Take care of mom, right? Hes so beautiful. Would you like to say something? Please. He feels very comfortable. You did a good job. That was a good job. Wow. He did okay fellows, right? He did. He did a great job. Thank you both. Lois and Steve, you remind us really that, all of us, that anythings possible, and Lois is among the roughly 100 Hope for Prisoners alumni here today, all of whom are doing incredibly well. Please stand. Please stand, all of the alumni. Wow, thats great. Thats great. Thats great. Great. Congratulations. Thank you very much.  But theyre really a testament to the bright future that awaits you all. Its a great time in our country in so many ways. Our military is strong. Our country is just strong. Were stronger in, I would say, just about every way than we ever have been before. Militarily. You take a look at what were doing with the stock market. Weve had 144 out of three years. Ive been here just a little more than three years and in a little more than three years, John, weve had 144 stock market records. Now thats good for everybody. Its good for your 401ks and its good for jobs and its good for those are the ones that I think about first, jobs, 401ks, that and people are making a lot of money and people are getting tremendous youll be investing some of your money in this now. Youd be doing fantastically well and youre going to have 401ks or something, the equivalent and youre going to do fantastically well.  And as I say, sometimes in speeches, the best is yet to come. We have tremendous potential. We have done weve just made some incredible trade deals that will soon start kicking in. Its going to make it a different country economically, as good as it does, its going to be much better. We had horrible, horrible deals, or no deals at all, and now we have phenomenal deals. We made a massive deal with China than we did the USMCA, thats Mexico, Canada. We did a $40 billion a year deal with Japan and we did a deal with South Korea, and we have other deals too, and Im going to India next week and were talking about they have 1.5 billion people and Prime Minister Modi is number two on Facebook. Number two, think of that. You know who number one is? Trump. Can you believe that? Number one, I just found out. The head of Facebook, Mr. Zuckerberg came in three weeks ago. He said, Congratulations. I said, On what? He said, Youre number one on Facebook. I said, Thats cool. Number one on Twitter too. But thats because true.  But thats because And if I wasnt, I could never say it because it would be breaking news that Trump told the fib. Now number one and I congratulated a Prime Minister Modi. I said, But you know, you have 1.5 billion people. I have 350 million. You have an advantage. But were going to India and we may make a tremendous deal there. Maybe well slow it down, well do it after the election. I think that could happen too. So well see what happens but were only making deals if theyre good deals because were putting America first, whether people like it or not. Were putting America first.  So to help you find housing, jobs and support, I established, as you know very well, the Council on Crime Prevention and Re-entry. Theyve done a fantastic job and here with us today, our new executive director, Tony Lowden.  Tony, would you just come up and say a few words please? Tony Lowden. Thank you, Tony.  He looks good. Thank you, Tony. Wow. Thank you Tony. Wow, thats great. Respected guy.  For too long, citizens with a record were not even considered for jobs. You know that even if they were qualified, rehabilitated, totally and ready to go to work, they wanted to go to work but all of that is changing and we began a nationwide campaign to encourage businesses to expand Second Chance Hiring; call it Second Chance Hiring. When we say hire American, we mean all Americans, all Americans.  And our entire nation wins when citizens with a record have a chance to succeed, such a tremendous, its whats happened over the last three years is incredible. People came out, they didnt have a chance and now theyre not only having a chance, youre going to see in a little while when these guys try and make a deal. I want a little bit more. Give me a little bit more.  Together, were rebuilding the most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society, John, ever to exist. We are becoming a very inclusive society, much more so than in the past and a lot of people havent figured that out yet but I think they will. I think people are going to figure it out pretty soon. We want every citizen to join Americas unparalleled success in every community to take part in Americas extraordinary rise.  Since my election, we have created 7 million new jobs. The unemployment rate has reached the lowest rate in over 51 years. Think of that, 51 years; half a century. And by the way, the 7 million jobs, they thought it might be 2 million if were lucky. You go back three years, they were saying 2 million. We did 7 million and its pretty amazing.  African-American poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded but I think one of the things were most proud of in this incredible economy, well call it Trump Economy, call it, well call it the ponder economy, well call it something, but whatever we call it, this economy has been great and the thing that might be the best of all is what weve done with criminal justice reform. I really think so.  Our jobs market is so strong that businesses are recruiting the former prisoners off the sidelines in, by the way, record numbers. Record numbers, never happened anywhere, even close to these numbers. We know that having a job gives you the best chance to work hard to earn the paycheck, care for your families, chase your dreams and succeed, through our pledge to Americas workers, spearheaded by a very famous young woman. Did you ever hear of Ivanka?  She said, Daddy, I want to help with jobs. I said, Well, Ill put you here, there. No, no. I want to help with jobs. I want to get people jobs. They have to be trained. They have to be So she had a goal of 500,000 jobs. Thats a lot; half a million jobs. She just broke Jared. I guess, is Jared around? She just broke She just broke Jared Kushner. She just broke the father of criminal justice reform. He really is. I mean, he works so hard and Ivanka just broke 15 million jobs. Mayor, thats good, right? And this is where they train the people in the companies. The government cant do this. Walmart took a million people. Think of it. These big companies take and they train them. Its very complicated stuff with computerization and all the things you have to learn. Thats not for government.  15 million people taken by many of the biggest companies, but also midsize companies, even some smaller, but she broke 15 million people about two weeks ago and her goal was 500,000 people over a fairly long period of time; 15 million. But if you know Ivanka, youre not at all surprised. Believe me, I wasnt surprised. I was sort of saying, So what else is new.  To everyone returning citizen here today, I know that there are some in our society who want to tell you what you cant do. Theyre going to tell you what you cant do. Its one of the reasons I wanted to be here. I wanted to say what I had to say to John too, because I sort of had that in my mind for a long time. Actually, the first time I met him but they want to tell you what you cant do. They want to tell you why you cant succeed. No way you can succeed.  You dont want to listen to them because youre proving different. They want to say why you cant make it in this country. Why you cant make it in any country. They think youre not going to make it period, but do not believe those voices for one second because Im here today because I believe in what you can do.  Youre going to be incredible. Youre going to be incredible. Youre going to see it and its going to go quickly. Each of you is a citizen of the greatest country on earth. There is more opportunity, more equality and more potential in America today than in any society in the history of the world. Its true.  This is the country where anyone can make a comeback. We made a comeback with our country. We call it the Great American Comeback. This is the Great American Comeback and youre doing the same thing. This is a nation where anyone can rise and this is the time when anyone can reach for the American dream, that beautiful American dream. Thats what youre doing and whenever you have any doubt, whenever the road gets tough and it will, youll have those days. Ive had those days. I mean, I didnt do anything wrong and they impeached to me a few weeks ago, right? They impeached. I said, What happened? What did I do?  You think that was fun? Mary, you think thats great to be impeached? The good news, my numbers went through the roof. I mean, you explain this to me. Explain this to me.  But youll have those days, right? Youre going to have those days but youre Americans and youre great Americans and Americans meet challenges. You defy expectations. You never give up. You never lose faith in the redeeming power of Almighty God and from this day forward, Im here. Im the president. I dont have to do this. I could be someplace else but I want it to be here and I had plenty of choices.  One thing, as president, the American tells you, we have plenty of choices, right? We are a lot of choices. I wanted to be here but I ask each of you to seize your unlimited future. If you do, you will make the most of your incredible new found freedom. Youre pioneers in a way because youre at a point in the country when its just all come together. You will unlock your unique talents and skill and aspirations. Youll join a great project of national renewal and together we will make our country stronger than ever before.  Thank you very much for being here. God bless you and God bless America.  Thank you. Thank you."
"Thank you very much, please. So we had a couple of really great days in India. Prime Minister Modi is a terrific man. Hes a terrific leader. And we have a lot of things going in terms of product being purchased by India. We just had a meeting. A lot of the press was there. I thought it was a great meeting with some of the biggest businessmen in the world. They come from India, theyre agreeing to invest billions and billions of dollars. You heard it for yourself. Theyre going to be investing billions of dollars in our country. That was the purpose of the trip. Also, were all set for $3 billion worth of helicopters, the Apaches and various other types in addition to other equipment. Theyre buying that, and theyre buying a lot. Theyre going to be buying a lot, and theyre also going to be buying a lot of our energy, all forms of our energy, because they need energy.  And we have more than anybody. Were number one in the world now in energy. So thats going to be very exciting. But I thought it was a great two days, was a fantastic two days. Im going to be not at all controversial, because I dont want to blow the two days plus two days of travel on one answer, one little answer, little answer. Like John will ask me one little simple question, and youll blow it out. And that will be the end of the trip. They wont even talk about the trip. Ill be very, very conservative in my answers if you dont mind. But we did. We had a great time. We had great meetings and were going for a state dinner. And then after that we get back onto the plane and we go back home. Its going to be about 19 hours, but we look forward to it, get in tomorrow.  But this is a tremendous country. Its 1.4 billion, probably at least the most people. And its a tremendous market and they really like us. And I think they like us more now than theyve ever liked us, frankly. We have a terrific, a really great relationship between the prime minister and myself. So were going to be doing a lot of things. I think it was really, really worth it. You may ask about the coronavirus, which is very well under control in our country. We have very few people with it. And the people that have it are in all cases, I have not heard anything other, maybe theres something new because for two days I havent been seeing too much of that news, very much news because its been very all encompassing. Weve accomplished a lot. We had a lot of meetings as you know. But the people are getting better, theyre all getting better.  We brought in some Americans from a ship, because it was really the right thing to do. And theyre in quarantine. And we think theyll be in very good shape very, very soon. We discussed a lot of different elements. We actually discussed the coronavirus, and at this moment India doesnt have much of a problem, they feel. It wasnt expressed that they did, which is great. And I think that whole situation will start working out. A lot of talent, a lot of brain power is being put behind it. Two and a half billion dollars were putting in. I see that Chuck Schumer criticized that. He thought it should be more. And if I gave more, hed say it should be less, automatic with these characters. Theyre just not good for our country. If I gave more, hed say it should be less.  But thats what they do in the meantime. Thats all they can do. Theyre not getting anything done. We have so many things we could get done. We could so easily do prescription drug. Last year was the first year in 51 years where prescription drug prices went down. But we could drive them down really well if we had the Democrat votes. We need some additional votes. We would really drive them down, as you know. So with that, I think what well do is take some questions and well go to a nice state dinner and then we go home. Yeah. John, go ahead. Its very obvious. I always thought frankly that Justice Ginsburg should do it because she went, while during the campaign when I was running, I dont know who she was for. Perhaps she was for Hillary Clinton, if you can believe it. But she said some things that were obviously very inappropriate. She later sort of apologized. I wouldnt say it was an apology, but she sort of apologized. And then Justice Sotomayor said what she said yesterday, you know very well what she said yesterday. It was a big story. And I just dont know how they can not recuse themselves for anything having to do with Trump or Trump related.  The right thing to do is that now as a Supreme Court Justice theres a different standard. But at the same time I think its a higher standard in a certain sense. So theyll have to decide what to do. But her statement was so inappropriate when youre a justice of the Supreme Court and its almost what shes trying to do is take the people that do feel a different way, and get them to vote the way that she would like them to vote. I just thought it was so inappropriate. Such a terrible statement for a Supreme Court justice. You know what the statement was, John. No, I dont think that was it. But I think what she did say is shes trying to shame the way I look at it. Shes trying to shame people with perhaps a different view into voting her way. And thats so inappropriate. So lets see what happens. We have things, whether or not they recuse themselves both. Look, Justice Ginsburg during my campaign, I protested at the time, she apologized in a very minor form. And what Justice Sotomayor said yesterday was really highly inappropriate. And everybody agrees to that, virtually everybody Ive seen. Ive seen papers on it. People cannot believe that she said it. Yeah, please. Go ahead. You know what, Im reading, and again, Im over here for the last number of days. But they went to see Bernie and they told Bernie about something having to do with, they want Bernie to win. They did not tell me. Intelligence never told me. And we have a couple of people here that would know very well. They never told me anything about that. And it was a strange thing that they went to Bernie. And now I find out, if I believe what I read in some of your documents, in some of your papers that it was highly exaggerated. And frankly I think its disgraceful. And I think it was leaks from the intelligence committee, House version. And I think that they leaked it. I think probably Schiff leaked it, but some people within that Schiff leaked it, in my opinion.  And he shouldnt be leaking things like that. Thats a terrible thing to do. But basically they would like to see Bernie as probably winning. And looks like hes winning and hes got a head of steam. And they maybe dont want him for obvious reasons, so they dont want him. So they put out a thing that rushes back in him. This is what they do. Ive gone through it for a long time, I get it. I get the game better than anybody. And thats the way it is. Terrible thing to say. And they didnt say it about me. I will say this, somebody leaked it in intelligence, but nobody ever told me that. We have Ambassador OBrien in the audience someplace. And he can tell you that this was never discussed with us, so I think its terrible. They ought to stop the leaking from intelligence committee. And if they dont stop it, I cant imagine that people are not going to go after them and find out whats happening. Go ahead maam. I think India would like to see it happen. I spoke with Prime Minister Modi today and I think they would very much like to see it happen. And were pretty close, well see whats going on. Weve got two days now under our belt without violence or I guess a minimum of violence. And well see what happens, but people want to see it. Its very interesting that one, is everybodys happy about it. Even people that are normally against me 99.9% of the time, because weve been there for 19 years and everybody would like to see it happen. I was actually surprised. I thought the Schumers of the world would say whatever the opposite is. Because thats all they can do, crying Chuck. But people are really happy to see that were trying very hard. It would bring it down to 8,600. And from there well make a decision as to what the final outcome would be.  But theres been tremendous praise for the fact that were doing something. Other administrations have tried to do something, in particular, the previous administration for a long time. They were never able to get anything done. And were really serving not as a military force as we are a police force. And were not a police force. They have to police their own country. Were not a police force. Its like law enforcement and thats the way it is. So wed like to, I can tell you after 19 years, wed like to bring our young people back home. Thats where they want to be, and well always have intelligence there. Well have other things there, but for the most part, we would like to bring them back home.  We want to watch the area. The area is a hotbed of problems. And when we bring them home, well let them know that if something happens, we will hit them so hard. And we could win that easily if I wanted to kill millions of people. I dont want to kill millions of people, innocent people. We could win that very easily. We dont have to act as a police force. We could act as a military force to win, not a military force to just take care of things in that very, very difficult part of the world. Its a very difficult part, very dangerous part of the world. So lets see what happens. So far, so good. So far, but Im very impressed with the kind of kudos were getting. Yes, please. I dont think anybodys done more than I have. If you look, because I came in and if you check your maps and look at Iraq and Syria, it was all over. In fact, they had it painted a certain color. I wont tell you what color, because it doesnt matter. Somebody will say it was a Republican color, so I dont want to get people confused. But it happened to be red. And it was basically trying to show where ISIS was in those areas, and it was out of control. And I gave the orders, and we have 100% of the caliphate. We have tens of thousands of people in prisons now. Theyre being guarded by the Kurds and others. Europe should take a lot of them back. So far they havent agreed to do that. They should do that because we did them a big favor.  We captured them, but I did that. We killed al-Baghdadi a few months ago and Soleimani is gone. Hes no longer putting roadside bombs all over the place. Somebody else may be, but he was the father, the king of the roadside bomb. All of those young people that you see with missing legs and missing legs and arms. Ive seen every combination. The legs are gone. You go over to Walter Reed, I have to say the doctors at Walter Reed are incredible. What theyre able to do, incredible. But thats what his thing was. He thought that was a beautiful weapon. Roadside bombs. Its a cowards bomb, and all of these young people that have been so badly hurt. And we did a big favor. In addition to that, as you know, Hamza bin Laden is now gone. He was looking to do damage and hes gone. And al-Qaeda last week, you saw what happened there.  So nobody has done more than what Ive done. but at the same time, Russia should do it, Iran should do it, Iraq should do it. Syria should do it. Were in a different part of the world. Were doing it. Everybody says youre the only ones that can do it. At some point these other countries, Iran should do it. Iran hates ISIS and they should do it. And weve done a great job. Weve taken our soldiers essentially out of Syria except for little hotspots that well do that develop. But weve taken the oil and the soldiers we have, theyre the ones guarding the oil. We have the oil. So thats all we have there. If you look, we are down to a small force in Iraq. And were down to a small force very shortly. But right now even we have a small force in Afghanistan, and so were moving out and moving around. But the only soldiers we have in terms of Syria, the predominant number of soldiers are the ones guarding the oil. I agree. But you also have other countries that can do this. The United States is 8,000 miles away. And theyre all saying, could you do it? Yeah, we could do it. Weve been doing it for a long time, but Ive been doing it much better than anyone else has done it. What weve done in the last couple of years has been incredible. We have 100% of the caliphate. Remember we had 99% Id say, good, were leaving. And I was hit with, people couldnt believe it. They said do 100, so we did 100. I did 100 with some great generals that knew exactly what they were doing. They were unbelievable. We took 100% of the caliphate. And we have thousands of prisoners right now locked up. And these are ISIS fighters and killed thousands. Not that I want to do that, I dont want to do that. But thats what we had to do. And when I came in, ISIS was all over the place. It was totally out of control. Please, thank you. So we did talk about religious freedom and- We did talk about religious freedom, and I will say that the prime minister was incredible on what he told me. He wants people to have religious freedom and very strongly, and he said that in India, they have worked very hard to have great and open religious freedom. And if you look back and look at whats going on relative to other places especially, but they have really worked hard on religious freedom. I asked that question in front of a very large group of people today, and he talked about it. We talked about it for a long time, and I really believe thats what he wants. As far as the individual attack, I heard about it, but I didnt discuss that with him. Thats up to India. Yeah. Go ahead, please. I was never a fan of Harvey Weinstein, as you know. In fact, he said he was going to work hard to defeat me in the election. How did that work out, by the way? Im trying to figure that out. He was a person I didnt like, never liked. I dont know too much about the case, because as you know, Ive been over here. Between traveling and being at meetings almost every hour of the day, every minute of the day, I havent been able to really see too much of it, but I was just not a fan of his. I knew him a little bit. Not very well. I knew him because he was in New York. Not a person that I like. I will say the people that liked them were the Democrats. Michelle Obama loved him. Loved him. Hillary Clinton loved him. And he gave tremendous money to the Democrats, and I guess my question is, will the Democrats be asking for that money back? Because he gave a lot of money to the Democrats, and its too bad, but thats the way it worked out. Yeah, Peter? Well, again, I dont know the actual results. I havent seen too much, because Ive been in India as you know. I think that from the standpoint of women, I think it was a great thing. It was a great victory and sends a very strong message. A very, very strong message, Peter. Yeah, please. No, no. Theres a big difference, in case you dont know, between Ebola and Coronavirus. Big, big difference. Its like day and night, and I felt that we should bring them back. Theyre Americans. We should bring them back. With Ebola, its very explosive. Its very terrible. Were making tremendous strides on Ebola with the things that were doing, as you know. People are living with- Let me answer the question. But theres a tremendous, theres a vast difference than , especially in around 14. Was that 14 or 12? And at that time, nobody had ever even heard of Ebola or ever conceived of something where you basically People would disintegrate, and were still working on Ebola. Were doing the vaccines. Excuse me. Yeah, were doing a vaccine. Were doing a lot of things having to do with Ebola. Were not forgetting about Ebola. Thats a horrible thing. But we have that now very much under control, other than certain parts of the Congo where they are having war and we cant get in, so were still working on that. But as far as what were doing with the new virus, I think that were doing a great job. I felt that, and the decision was made in Japan, let these Americans come back and well see where they are, but they were immediately put into quarantine. Theres no problem with it whatsoever. Theyre all in quarantine. And as you know, I approved two and a half billion dollars for just that purpose and also for working on getting a vaccine. The level of death with Ebola, at the time it was a virtual 100 percent. Theres a very good chance youre not going to die. Its very much the opposite. Youre talking about one or 2 percent, whereas in the other case, it was a virtual 100 percent. Now they have studied it. They know very much. In fact, were very close to a vaccine. Yeah, please go ahead. Go ahead, Peter. Oh, all right.  Thank you. Yeah, were talking about the H-1Bs, and look, the relationship we have, this is not from me. This is from almost everybody that saw it. They say the history of India, which has a long history and a brilliant history in so many different ways, theres never been a reception given to somebody like was given, and I would like to say for the United States of America. But nobody else that came here got the kind of reception we got. It was 125,000, I think, seats they had yesterday. They were full. You had thousands and thousands of people outside. Prime Minister Modi was telling me thousands of people outside. Thats not uncommon for me, to be honest with you, but when I look at 125,000 seats And that was an incredible scene yesterday. In addition, all of those people lined up from the airport to the event. It was an incredible thing. Nobodys ever seen anything like it.  The ambassador just told me that hes been in India for a long time. In fact, both ambassadors, their ambassador and the ambassador from India said in 40 years, hes never seen anything like it, what took place yesterday and earlier than that. But yesterday, theyve never seen anything like it, so it was a great compliment. It was a great compliment to our country. Im the leader of the country, but it was a great compliment to our country. But Prime Minister Modi said today theyve never, ever had any event like that. In fact, they said usually when somebody comes in, they have to look for people to fill up the areas. There was something very special. Look, its a massive country in terms of its population, and people just wanted to see. They wanted to pay their respect to the United States, and so I appreciate it. I was a recipient, in a sense, but I was just really representing the country. Yeah, Peter? Yeah? Go ahead. Yeah, I dont think its a big problem. I dont think its very many people. I think we had a whistleblower who was a fake, because if you look at the whistleblower as an example, if you look at his report and then you compare that to the transcripts, it bore no relationship. That was a very sad situation and a lot of time, a lot of time wasted. Although as you will admit, in fact you wrote very nicely, I appreciate it, the poll numbers have gone up very much, but thats not appropriate to have to benefit by something like that. Then there was supposed to be a second whistleblower. As soon as I released the transcripts, the second whistleblower was gone. Nobody ever heard what happened to the second whistleblower. Ill ask you. Where is he? Remember, the second was he or she.  The second whistleblower was going to happen. It was just a matter of moments. And then I released the real call, the transcripts, which are now 100 percent accurate, even according to Lieutenant Colonel Veneman. Now, we want to have people that are good for the country, are loyal to our country, because that was a disgraceful situation. Please . Good. We talked a lot about Pakistan. I have a very good relationship with Prime Minister Khan. Very good. We talked about it today at length actually, and Prime Minister Modi, and its no question its a problem, but its a problem they have. Theyre working on it. India is, its a brave nation too. Theres no pull-back from India, and we just hope. And I said Ill help. Ill do whatever I have to do, if I can do that, because my relationship with both gentlemen is so good. But there has been difficulty in Pakistan, and were seeing what we can do about it. Anything I can do to mediate, anything I can do to help, I would do.  Theyre working on Kashmir. Kashmir has been a thorn in a lot of peoples sides for a long time, and there are two sides to every story, but theyve been working on that very hard. We discussed it at great length, terrorism, and I think we have some very good ideas. Hes very, very struggling against terrorism. Ill tell you, Prime Minister Modi, hes a very religious man, as you know. Hes a very calm man, but hes actually a very, very strong person. Very tough, actually, when Ive seen him in action, and hes got that foremost in his mind, terrorism. Hell take care of it. Please. Go ahead. You. Right here. Thats fine. Right there. We talked about many things, many, many things. We talked about Iran, we talked about Iraq, we talked about We were together for two days. Im going to be with Prime Minister Modi tonight for a state dinner at 7:00. It starts at 7:00, I believe. And we talked about exactly all of the things that youre talking about. We also talked about tariffs, because as you know, India is probably the highest tariff nation in the world, meaning charging tariffs to outsiders, and I said we have to stop that. We have to stop, at least as it pertains to the United States, and I think were understanding each other. With China, we worked a deal, and we worked it because of the tariffs. And I was able to leave the tariffs on. That will take care of phase two. We still have 25 percent and $250 billion, but in the meantime, were working with China very much on the virus. We feel thats something.  And I have to tell, I spoke to President Xi the other day. He is so committed to solving that problem. He is working very hard. He is very capable. The country is very capable. And it snuck up on him, but I think hes going to do well. Now you see its going to South Korea, just going to Italy, and its going to other places. But I spoke to all of them. Theyre all working very, very hard on it. The United States, because of an early decision I made, I made a decision I believe it was the first time its ever been done. We closed the country to certain areas, as you know, and I was criticized for that decision. Now theyre saying it was a good decision.  I think it was a good decision, because we have very few people, and you can add to it a few people that we took in because they were Americans. I mean, what are we going to do? And they were almost in-between countries where people werent going to take them and they were Americans, but theyre fully quarantined. They call it fully quarantined. We did the right thing. If you were out there, if you were an American and you refused to have any help from your country, these were wonderful people. It wasnt their fault. But were really down to probably 10. Most of the people are outside of danger right now. But weve had a very strict line on the people that were taking the areas from which we take, and I did it very early. Its never done before, and I did it early. I think it was a good decision as it turned out. Yeah, please. Okay, first of all, I want no help from any country, and I havent been given help from any country. And if you see what CNN, your wonderful network said, I guess they apologized in a way for Didnt they apologize for the fact that they said certain things that werent true? Tell me, what was their apology yesterday? What did they say? Let me tell you about your record. Your record is so bad you ought to be ashamed of yourself. You have probably the worst record- You probably have the worst record in the history of broadcasting. As far as McGuire is concerned, hes a terrific guy. But you know, on March 11th his time ended anyway, so his time came up. We would have had to, by statute, we wouldve had to change him anyways, so the time was . I think yes, yes. In fact, were talking to five different people right now. I think all people that you know, all people that you respect, and Ill make a decision probably over the next week to two weeks. We have some very good people. But Joe McGuire is a very excellent guy. Hes a very good man, and his time was March 11th. I believe it was March 11th where he would have had to leave. But we are going- No, not at all. Not at all. He was pushed out because frankly He wasnt pushed out. He wouldve had to get out. On March 11th, he wouldve had to leave, but were going to be making a decision on DNI very shortly. Yeah, please. Go ahead, please. Yeah. Well, thats not nice. Well, thats not nice. Let her do it. I know, but you ripped the mic out of her hand. You cant do that. Boy, that wasnt very nice. Hes worse than you. Yeah. We know the problems. Sure. Yeah, sure, we know the problems. I know the problems. Previous administrations had no clue. They didnt know the problems. I know the problems. Were being charged large amounts of tariffs and you cant do that. You cant do that. They understand that thats where I am and if they want to deal with us, and they will, theyre going to, just like China. Everybody said, Youll never make a deal with China. I made a deal with China. Its a great deal. Theyre going to buy $250 billion worth of product and thats only a piece of the deal. Its a large piece. Its probably 40 to 50%, but its an incredible deal.  In addition to that, were taking in billions and billions of dollars worth of tariffs that we can now use for phase two, because they want to get rid of the 25%. We have the 25%, they want to get rid of it. Well, with India, India is, I think, the highest, again, I said it before, but the highest tariff. When you deal with India, Harley Davidson has to pay tremendous tariffs when they send motorcycles in here. When India sends motorcycles into the US, theres virtually no tariff. For the most part, there is absolutely no tariff. I just said thats unfair and were working it out. Were working it out. Go ahead. I think well win that one easily. Were working on that, yeah. Were working on that too. Its just not a fair situation when one company is paying 100% in the case of numerous companies, not just Harley, but where theyre paying tremendous. Actually tariffs were raised not too long ago. We also did something. There was a form of rent control that was, if you put it in a different sense, it was given to India and we terminated it. We terminated it. No, were talking. We have great discussions. Look, I cant lose this. I cant lose it. You know what? Ill never lose it. Its too easy, because I want reciprocal. It has to be reciprocal. The money youre talking about is major, but the United States has to be treated fairly. India understands that the relationship is outstanding, but India understands that weve had a tremendous deficit for many, many years with India, with everybody, with frankly so many different countries. Weve had a massive, massive deficit, but a large deficit, $30 billion with India, its now down to $24 billion because of what weve been doing, but still thats too high. We shouldnt have a $24 billion deficit. With other countries, we have more than that. Japan, were doing now 40 billion is coming in. A lot of very good deals are being made and theyll be kicking in toward the end of the year. I would say if the deal happens with India, it will be toward the end of the year. If it doesnt happen, well do something else thatll be very satisfactory. Itll be very good. Go ahead. Who else? . Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I didnt say that. I didnt say anything about that. I just said Kashmir, obviously, theres a big problem between Pakistan and India. I think theyre going to work out their problem, but I will say theyve been doing it for a long time. . I dont want to discuss that. I want to leave that to India. Hopefully theyre going to make the right decision for the people. Thats really up to India. Yeah, go ahead, please, please. Go ahead. Well, first of all, Id describe it as incredible because when I looked at the various things, like today when we went  You probably saw where we were. When you look at all of the things that weve seen today, when we look at yesterday, the Taj Mahal and other things, in addition to working in between and even during, where we worked very long and hard with representatives from India, most particularly with the Prime Minister, I just think its an incredible country. Its got unbelievable energy. You see that when you come in from the plane. When you see from  I think I can say virtually from the plane to whatever venue we were going to, it was wall-to-wall people. Theyve never seen anything like it. Somebody said it was the greatest greeting ever given to any head of state from any country. Now, India has more people than any other country, a little bit more than China, a little bit, tiny. I think the diplomacy is a diplomacy of great friendship and respect. I think its going to all work out very well. I really do. I admire your country tremendously. I respect your Prime Minister tremendously. I think its really a diplomacy of friendship. I think its going to work out very well. Go ahead, please. Please, go ahead, right next to Steve. I havent really been given a full briefing on that. Well get a look at it. We will look at it. Its something that I dont like to see. I dont think its fair because we give very good access. Maybe some people would say we give too good. I dont believe in that. I think we give very good access, so I dont think its fair, but well have a decision made on that relatively soon. Thank you. Good question. Please, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Well, youll be seeing something on that in the not too distant future, yeah. There could be very serious sanctions. Whats happening in Venezuela is so sad. People are starving. Heres a case where a country was wealthy 15 years ago, and very wealthy 20 years ago, very, very wealthy, the wealthiest in all of Latin, South America, the wealthiest, and by far, not even a contest. When you look today, they dont have water. They dont have basic food. They have no medicine. Its incredible whats happened to Venezuela. No, were watching Venezuela very closely. We dont like it. We dont like it, not at all. Youre going to see in a little while. Youre asking a question right in the middle of us doing something. Go ahead, please. Well, we did discuss that. We discussed that and specifically Muslims, and we also discussed Christians. I had a very powerful answer from the Prime Minister. We talked about religious liberty for a long period of time in front of a lot of people. I had a very, very powerful answer. As far as Muslims are concerned, as he told me, I guess they have 200 million Muslims in India. A fairly short while ago they had 14 million. He said that they were working very closely with the Muslim community. Well, again, . Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I won the travel ban, as you probably know. A lot of people said I lost it. No, I won the travel ban. We used the travel ban where we think theres, not based on religion, but where we think theres going to be trouble where were looking at certain countries. As you know, we added a few countries onto it, but we won the travel ban and we won it in the Supreme Court. The travel ban is not a thing against Muslims. Its a thing against areas where we dont want people coming into our country that are going to cause problems, cause harm, cause death, hurt our people. I feel very strongly about that. Okay, please go ahead. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, I think that India is going to be a tremendous player over the next  Its now, but over the next period of 50 years or 100 years, look, youre talking about the largest population in the world. Youre talking about a tremendous country in terms of its heritage, its potential wealth, frankly. Right now they have incredible potential. Economically, they have great potential. Their schooling system is getting better all the time. Theyre doing a fantastic job in certain sectors with respect to education. We see it. In the United States, we see it. We have a lot of Indian students coming to our schools. Theyre great students. Theyve done fantastically well in our schools, but we have thousands and thousands of people coming from India coming to our colleges in particular schools, but our colleges in particular. Now, India has got a phenomenal future. I mean, you can rarely think of a place that has a better future than India, and highly respected, especially with leadership like Prime Minister Modi. Yeah. Go ahead, pick one. Go ahead. Im very satisfied because theyre investing tremendous amounts of money. I met Mr. Patel a little while ago. Hes the largest steel person in the world by far. I dont think theres even a contest. Hes going to be building a billion dollar plant in Alabama. We had the press, I left them in there, always a risky thing to do, but if you see the  Lets say we have answered 15 questions. They were talking about how much better it is to work in the United States now in terms of their investment. They have done a   some of the biggest entrepreneurs in the world. Im not even sure if the media really understood who they were. I knew many of them, certainly heard of all of them. The job theyve done is incredible, but Mr. Patel, whos I think the biggest steel company, certainly the biggest steel individual, but I think hes the biggest steel company by a lot, hes investing billions of dollars in the United States. Hes only doing it because of what Ive done to bring back the steel industry.  The steel industry was dead, absolutely dead in the United States, and now its a vibrant industry. Its incredible. We need it. Again, we need it for defense. Its not just like certain industries that you dont need. We need it for defense, but he was glowing. One of the reasons hes spending a billion dollars in Alabama, and more money in other places in the United States, is because we brought it back. Were very proud of that.  I think what well do is were going to see some of you on the plane on the way back. Its been an honor to be here. Its an incredible place with incredible leadership and an unbelievable future. I just want to thank you all. Ill see you back in the States. I think some of you are on the plane and well talk a little bit on the plane too. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much everybody. Thank you very much. Before I begin, Id like to extend my deepest condolences to the victims and families in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Earlier today, a wicked murderer opened fire at a Molson-Coors Brewing Company plant, taking the lives of five people. A number of people were wounded, some badly wounded. Our hearts break for them and their loved ones. We send our condolences, well be with them and its a terrible thing. Terrible thing. So our hearts go out to the people of Wisconsin and to the families. Thank you very much. Ive just received another briefing from a great group of talented people on the virus that is going around to various parts of the world. We have, through some very good early decisions, decisions that were actually ridiculed at the beginning, we closed up our borders to flights coming in from certain areas. Areas that were hit by the coronavirus and hit pretty hard, and we did it very early.  A lot of people thought we shouldnt have done it that early and we did, and it turned out to be a very good thing. And the number one priority, from our standpoint, is the health and safety of the American people, and thats the way I viewed it when I made that decision. Because of all weve done, the risk to the American people remains very low. We had the greatest experts, really, in the world right here. The people that are called upon by other countries when things like this happen. Were ready to adapt and were ready to do whatever we have to as the disease spreads, if it spreads. As most of you know, the level that weve had in our country is very low, and those people are getting better, or we think that in almost all cases the better they are getting.  We have a total of 15. We took in some from Japan, you heard about that, because theyre American citizens and theyre in quarantine, and theyre getting better, too. But we felt we had an obligation to do that. It could have been as many as 42, and we found that it was just an obligation we felt that we had. We could have left them and that would have been very bad. Very bad, I think. American people, and theyre recovering. Of the 15 people, the original 15 as I call them, eight of them have returned to their homes to stay in their homes until fully recovered, one is in the hospital, and five have fully recovered, and one is, we think, in pretty good shape and is between hospital and going home. But we have a total of 15 people and theyre in a process of recovering with some already having fully recovered. We started out by looking at certain things that weve been working with the Hill very, very carefully, very strongly, and I think we have very good bipartisan spirit for money. We were asking for 2.5 Billion, and we think thats a lot, but the Democrats and I guess Senator Schumer wants us to have much more than that. And normally in life, Id say, Well take it, well take it. If they want to give more, well do more. Were going to spend whatevers appropriate. Hopefully, were not going to have to spend so much, because we really think weve done a great job in keeping it down to a minimum. And again, weve had tremendous success, tremendous success beyond what people would have thought. Now at the same time, you do have some outbreaks in some countries, Italy and various countries are having some difficulty.  China you know about. Where it started. I spoke with President Xi, we had a great talk. Hes working very hard, I have to say. Hes working very, very hard, and if you can count on the reports coming out of China, that spread has gone down quite a bit. The infection seems to have gone down over the last two days, as opposed to getting larger, its actually gotten smaller and one instance where we think we can be somewhat reliable. It seems to have gotten quite a bit smaller. With respect to the money thats being negotiated, they can do whatever they want. I mean, again, well do the two and a half. Were requesting two and a half. Some Republicans would like us to get four, and some Democrats would like us to get eight and a half and well be satisfied whatever it is.  Were bringing in a specialist, a very highly regarded specialist tomorrow, who works actually at the State Department. Very, very tremendously talented in doing this. I want you to understand something that shocked me when I saw it, that I spoke with Dr. Foushee on this, and I was really amazed, and I think most people are amazed to hear it. The flu, in our country, kills from 25,000 people to 69,000 people a year. That was shocking to me. And so far, if you look at what we have, with the 15 people and theyre recovering, one is pretty sick, but hopefully will recover. But the others are in great shape. But think of that 25,000 to 69,000. Over the last 10 years, weve lost 360,000, these are people that have died from the flu, from what we call the flu. Hey, did you get your flu shot? And thats something. Now what weve done is, weve stopped non-US citizens from coming into America from China. That was done very early on.  Were screening people, and we have been, at a very high level, screening people coming into the country from infected areas. We have in quarantine, those infected and those at risk. We have a lot of great quarantine facilities. Were rapidly developing a vaccine and they can speak to you, the professionals can speak to you about that. The vaccine is coming along well, and then speaking to the doctors, we think this is something that we can develop fairly rapidly, a vaccine for the future, and coordinate with the support of our partners. We have great relationships with all of the countries that were talking about, some fairly large number of countries. Some its one person. And many countries have no problem whatsoever, and well see what happens. But were very, very ready for this, for anything. Whether its going to be a breakout of larger proportions, or whether or not were at that very low level, and we want to keep it that way.  So were at the low level. As they get better, we take them off the list so that were going to be pretty soon at only five people, and we could be at just one or two people over the next short period of time. So weve had very good luck. Johns Hopkins, I guess, it is a highly respected, great place. They did a study, comprehensive, The Countries Best and Worst Prepared for an Epidemic and the United States, were rated number one. Were rated number one for being prepared. This is a list of different countries. I dont want to get in your way, especially since you do such a good job.  This is a list of the different countries. United States is rated number one. Most prepared. United Kingdom, Netherlands, Australia, Canada, Thailand, Sweden, Denmark, South Korea, Finland, this is a list of the best rated countries in the world by Johns Hopkins. Were doing something else thats important to me, because hes been terrific in many ways, but hes also very good on health care and we really followed him very closely. A lot of states do. When Mike was governor, Mike Pence, of Indiana, theyve established great healthcare, they have a great system there. A system that a lot of the other states have really looked to and changed their systems, they wanted to base it on the Indiana system, its very good. Hes really very expert at the field, and what Ive done is, Im going to be announcing, exactly right now, that Im going to be putting our Vice President, Mike Pence, in charge and Mike will be working with the professionals and doctors and everybody else thats working. The team is brilliant. I spent a lot of time with the team over the last couple of weeks, but theyre totally brilliant and were doing really well, and Mike is going to be in charge, and Mike will report back to me. But hes got a certain talent for this and Im going to ask Mike Pence to say a few words please. Thank you. Mike?  please. Okay, thank you . Great country, a long journey . We wont talk too much about that other than I just got back, a long flight. Its a long flight. Hes a great gentleman, a great leader. Its an incredible country. We were treated very, very well, and we really enjoyed it. A lot of tremendous progress was made in terms of relationship. Our relationship with India is extraordinary right now, and were going to be doing a lot of business with India. Theyre sending billions and billions of dollars now to the United States, but wed rather talk about this right now. Well, I dont think its inevitable. It possibly will. It could be at a very small level or it could be at a larger level. Whatever happens, were totally prepared. We have the best people in the world. You see that from the study we have the best prepared people, the best people in the world. Congress is willing to give us much more than were even asking for. Thats nice for a change, but we are totally ready, willing and able. Its a term that we use, its ready, willing, and able. Its going to be very well under control. Now. It may get bigger, it may get a little bigger. It may not get bigger at all. Well see what happens, but regardless of what happens, were totally prepared, please. Well, just to understand, Im the president of the United States. Im not the president of other countries. Other countries on the list that are very respected in what they do in terms of what were talking about, but I really want to be responsible for this country. If it means placing a very strong situation on the border so people cant come into our country from a country that is infected, were doing that and weve already done it with numerous countries, but we have to focus on this country. I dont think its right to impose ourselves on others.  But, if others arent taking care, or we think theyre doing it incorrectly, were dealing with world health, and we have terrific people, and CDC does go around, and help other countries, give them recommendations as what to do, but theyre working on their countries, and were working on our countries, and so far from our simple end its really worked out very well. At a right time we may do that. Right now its not the right time, but at the right time, and we are checking people as they come through specifically for the problem that were dealing with. Were checking a lot of people, if theyre coming from South Korea, its been hit pretty hard. Italys been hit pretty hard. China is obvious whats happened in China, but again, the numbers seem to be leveling often going down in China, which is very good news, so well see what happens. Well, Mike is not Azar is vice president. Hes in the administration, but Im having everybody report to Mike. Mikes been very good, very adept. Anybody that knows anything about health care, they look at the Indiana model, and its been a very great success. Its been a tremendous model in terms of healthcare, and this is really an offshoot of that, so this isnt Azar. I dont view Mike as a Azar. Mike is part of the administration, but Im having them report to Mike. Mike will report to me. Theyll also be reporting in some cases to both.  Ill be going to meetings quite a bit depending on what they want to do, and what message we want to get out, but weve done really an extraordinary job. When youre looking at a country this size with so many people pouring in with the number one in the world for people coming into a country by far, and we have a total of 15 cases, many of which almost much within a day, I will tell you most of whom were fully recovered. I think thats really a pretty impressive mark. Now, we did take in 40 people that were Americans, and theyre also recovering, but we brought them in, so I have a different group, but we felt we had an obligation to American citizens outside of the country that were trying to get back in. We thought it was very important. Well, I really think the stock market, if something I know a lot about, I think it took a hit maybe for two reasons. I think they look at the people that you watch debating last night, and they say if theres even a possibility that can happen. I think it really takes a hit because of that, and it certainly took a hit because of this, and I understand that also because of supply chains and various other things, and people coming in, but I think the stock market will recover. The economy is very strong, the consumer is the strongest its ever been.  Our consumers are incredible, theyre incredible, thats why were doing well and even before the virus, were doing great. Other countries have not been doing great. Our consumers very, very strong, very powerful economically. Yeah. Please. We do have plans of on much larger scale should we need that. Were working with states, were working with virtually every state, and we do have plans on a larger scale if we need it. We dont think were going to need it, but you always have to be prepared, and again, Congress is talking to us about funding and were getting far more than what we asked for, and I guess the best thing to do is take it, well take it. Well, were going see if well take care of states because states are working very hard. We have hospitals in the states that make rooms available, and they are building quarantined areas. Areas where you can keep people safely. Were working really well with states. Its a very big part of it. My attitude if Congress wants to give us the money so easy, it wasnt very easy for the wall, but we got that one done. If they want to give us the money, well take the money. Well just do a good job with it. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Well, we can get a lot of it. In fact, weve ordered a lot of it just in case we need it. We may not need it. You understand that, but in case were looking at worst case scenario, were going to be set very quickly, but I dont think were going to ever be anywhere near that. I really dont believe that were going to be anywhere near that. Our borders are very controlled. Our flights in from certain areas that were talking about are very controlled. I dont think well ever be anywhere near that. Please go ahead. Well, hopefully theyre going to be able to do that. We hope that its going to be in good shape by that time, but theyre going to have to remain a little bit flexible. Yeah, I would say travel related companies certainly right now they would be hurt. At the same time this ends, this is going to end. Hopefully, itll be sooner rather than later, and I think the business that they lost will be picked up at a later date, but right now I think theyre probably not going to be going to China. Theyre not going to be going to certain countries where the problem is far greater than it is in the United States.  What its going to do is keep people home, and theyre going to travel to places that we have. Its the greatest tourism country in the world, so instead of leaving our country, leaving our shores, theyll stay here, and again, when you have 15 people, and the 15 within a couple of days is going to be down to close to zero, thats a pretty good job weve done. Sure, I think speaker Pelosis incompetent. She lost the Congress once, I think shes going to lose it again. She lifted my poll numbers up 10 points. I never thought that I would see that so quickly, and so easily. Im leading everybody. Were doing great. I dont want to do it that way. Its almost unfair if you think about it, but I think shes incompetent, and I think shes not thinking about the country, and instead of making a statement like that where Ive been beating her routinely at everything, instead of making a statement like that, she should be saying, We have to work together because we have a big problem potentially.  And, maybe its going to be a very little problem. I hope that its going to be a very little problem, but we have to work together instead, she wants to do that. Same thing with Chuck Schumer. He goes out and he says, The president only asked for two and a half billion dollars. He should have eight and a half  This is the first time Ive ever been told that we should take more. Usually, its we have to take less, and we should be working together. He shouldnt be making statements like that, because its so bad for the country, and Nancy Pelosi, she should go back to her district, and clean it up because its the number one If you look at percentage down, that was one of the finest in the world, and now you look at whats happening.  Im just saying we should all be working together. Shes trying to create a panic, and theres no reason to panic, because we have done so good. These professionals behind me, and over here, and over there, and back here, and in some conference rooms. I just left a group of 45 people that are the most talented people in the world. Parts of the world are asking us in a very nice way, can they partake, and help them, so Nancy Pelosi shouldnt And, she knows its not true. All theyre trying to do is get a political advantage. This isnt about political advantage. Were all trying to do the right thing. They shouldnt be saying, This is terrible. President Trump isnt asking for enough money.  How stupid a thing to say. If they want to give us more money, thats okay. Well take more money. Some Republicans think we should have more money too. Thats okay. Well take more money, but they shouldnt demean the people that are on the stage who are the finest in the world. Theyre not demeaning me. Theyre demeaning the greatest healthcare professionals in the world and people that do exactly what were talking about. Well, when they get their opinion totally wrong as the New York Times did, and frankly, theyve got a lot wrong over the last number of years, so let That work its way through the courts. If you read it youll see its beyond an opinion. Thats not an opinion, but something much more than an opinion. They did a bad thing, and therell be more coming I hope so, because Shinzo, obvious, a very good friend of mine, I love the people of Japan, and I hope its going to be in good shape. As you know, you have a number of people in Japan who have been infected. I hear theyre doing a very professional job, which doesnt surprise me at all with Shinzo and with all of the people you have. I know Japan very well. I think theyre going to handle it very well. Its a little tight. They spent billions of dollars building one of the most beautiful venues Ive ever seen, and your prime minister is very proud of it. I hope its going to be fine. We hope it will. I would think so, yes. I havent spoken specifically about that with the various doctors, but I would think so, yes. I think every aspect of our society should be prepared. I dont think its going to come to that, especially with the fact that were going down, not up. Were going very substantially down not up, but yeah, I think school should be preparing, and get ready just in case. The words are just in case. We dont think were going to be there, we dont think were going to be anywhere close, and again, if you look at some countries, they are coming down, its starting to go in the other direction.  This will end, this will end. You look at flu season, I said 26,000 people. Id never heard of a number like that. 26,000 people going up to 69,000 people doctor you told me before. 69,000 people die every year, from 26 to 69, every year from the flu. Now, think of that. Its incredible. So far the results of all of this that everybodys reading about, and part of the thing is you, you want to keep it the way it is. You dont want to see panic because theres no reason to be panicked about, but  I dont want to see panic because theres no reason to be panicked about. But when I mentioned the flu, actually, I asked the various doctors. I said, Is this just like flu? Because people die from the flu, and this is very unusual. And it is a little bit different, but in some ways, its easier. And in some ways, its a little bit tougher. But we have it so well under control. We really have done a very good job. Go ahead. I think the financial markets are very upset when they look at the Democrat candidates standing on that stage making fools out of themselves and they say, If we ever have a president like this, and theres always a possibility, its an election, who knows what happens, right? I think were going to win. I think we are going to win by a lot. But when they look at the statements made by the people standing behind those podiums, I think that has a huge effect, yeah. I think it did. I think it did, but I think you can add quite a bit of selloff to what theyre seeing because theyre seeing the potential. Again, I think were going to win. I feel very confident of it. Weve done everything and much more than I said we were going to do. You look at what weve done, what weve done is incredible with the tax cuts and regulation cuts and rebuilding our military, taking care of our vets and getting them choice and accountability.  All of the things weve done, protecting our second amendment. I mean they view that second amendment, theyre going to destroy the second amendment. When people look at that, they say, This is not good. So you add that in. I really believe thats a factor. But no, this is what were talking about is the virus. Thats what were talking about. I do believe in terms of CNBC and in terms of Fox Business, I do believe that thats a factor. Yeah. And I think after I win the election, I think the stock markets going to boom like its never boomed before. Just like it did by the way after I won the last election. The stock market the day after went up like a rocket ship. When were at a point where we dont have a problem. Were not going to loosen the travel restrictions, thats what saved us. Mike alluded to it, had I not made a decision very early on not to take people from a certain area, we wouldnt be talking this way. Wed be talking about many more people would have been infected. I took a lot of heat. Some people call me racist because I made a decision so early. And we had never done that as a country before, let alone early. So it was a bold decision. It turned out to be a good decision. But I was criticized by the Democrats. They called me a racist because I made that decision, if you can believe that one. We have to all work together. We cant say bad things. And especially when we have the best team anywhere in the world and we really gave it an early start. We gave it a very early start. No, because we can get money and we can increase staff. We know all the people, we know all the good people. Theres a question I asked the doctors before. Some of the people we cut, they havent been used for many, many years. If we ever need them, we can get them very quickly. And rather than spending the money, and Im a business person, I dont like having thousands of people around when you dont need them. When we need them, we can get them back very quickly. For instance, were bringing some people in tomorrow that are already in this great government that we have, and very specifically for this. We can build up very, very quickly and weve already done that. I mean we really have built up, we have a great staff and using Mike, Im doing that because hes in the administration and hes very good at doing what he does and doing as it relates to this. Yeah, go ahead. I picked him, but your fine. Go ahead. Well, were testing everybody that we need to test and were finding very little problem, very little problem. Now you treat this like a flu. In fact, I might ask one of the doctors to come up and explain it. You want to wash your hands a lot. If youre not feeling well, if you feel you have a flu, stay inside, quarantine yourself, dont go outside. But there are certain steps that you can take that we wont even be necessary. In many cases when you catch this, its very light, you dont even know theres a problem. Sometimes they just get the sniffle. Sometimes they just get something where theyre not feeling quite right. And sometimes they feel really bad, but thats a little bit like the flu. Its a little like the regular flu that we have flu shots for and well essentially have a flu shot for this in a fairly quick manner. Yeah, go ahead. No. Were going to have tremendously low unemployment. Were setting records in that. In fact the administration is as you know, the lowest average unemployment of any administration in history. And our numbers are very low, very good, 3.5 3.6. But you cant really see what this does in terms of GDP. It could affect it, but thats irrelevant compared to what were talking about. We want to make sure its safe. Safety number one, but this would have an impact on GDP. But were still a very, very Were doing great, but this will Ill tell you what has a big impact. Boeing has a big impact. How did that happen? A year ago all of a sudden that happened. I think that took away a half a point to a point even. Its a massive company, I think Boeing, we had the general motors strike. That was a big impact on GDP.  And of course were paying interest rates. I disagree with the head of the fed. Im not happy with what that is because hes kept interest rates. President Obama didnt have near the numbers and yet if you look at what happened, he was paying zero. Were paying interest. Now, its more conservative and frankly people that put their money away and now getting a return on their money as opposed to not getting anything. But I think were the greatest of them all. We should be paying the lowest interest rates. And when Germany and other countries are paying negative rates, meaning theyre literally getting paid when they put out money. They borrow money and they get paid when it gets paid back. Whoever heard of this before? Its said first. But we dont do that. So I totally disagree with our fed.  I think our fed has made a terrible mistake. And it wouldve made a big difference as good as weve done, even without the 2000 points, and we started off at 16,000 and well be at 28,000 without. We were going to crack 30,000. We have had increases like nobodys seen before, but were doing well, but we have to watch Were doing well anyway in other words, even despite the 2000 points, it sounds like a lot and its a lot, but its very little compared to what weve gone up. But well be watching it very closely. But we have been hurt by general motors. Weve been hurt by Boeing and weve been hurt, in my opinion, very badly by our own federal reserve, who has also created a very strong dollar. Thats something nice about a strong dollar, but it makes it much harder to do business outside of this country. You dont mean my supporters, you mean my people that are not supporters. I agree with it. And Id like it to stop. I think people know that when Chuck Schumer gets upset He did the same thing with a couple of trade deals that are phenomenal deals now. Everybodys acknowledged theyre phenomenal deals before he ever saw the deal. He didnt even know we were going to make a deal. They said, What do you think of the deal with China? I dont like it. I dont like it. He talked about tariffs. I left the tariffs on 25% on $250 billion. He said, He took the tariffs off. He didnt even know the deal and he was out there knocking it because thats a natural thing to say. But when youre talking about especially something like this, we have to be on the same team. This is too important. We have to be on the same team. No, I dont think the CDC is. No, theyve been working really well together.  They really are. Theyre professional, I think theyre beyond that. They want this to go away. They want to do it with as little disruption and they dont want to lose life. I see the way theyre working. These people behind me and others that are in the other room, theyre incredible people. No, I dont see that at all. Thank you very much, I appreciate it. I dont know who said that, but I appreciate it. No, I think you have to always I do it a lot anyway, as you probably heard, wash your hands, stay clean. You dont have to necessarily grab every handrail unless you have to. You do certain things that you do when you have the flu. View this the same as the flu. When somebody sneezes, I try and bail out as much as possible when theyre sneezing. I had a man come up to me a week ago. I hadnt seen him in a long time and I said, How are you doing? He said, Fine, fine. He hugs me. I said, are you well? He says, No. He said, I have the worst fever and the worst flu, and hes hugging and kissing me. So I said, Excuse me. I went and I started washing my hands. So you have to do that. I really think, doctor, you want to treat this like you treat the flu, right? And its going to be fine. It was so nice of you to say thank you very much. Go ahead. Give me a nice question then. Dont ruin it. Dont ruin it with a bad question. Go ahead. They listened to a lot of what I had to say. Well, because this is a much different problem than Ebola. Ebola, you disintegrated, especially at the beginning. Theyve made a lot of progress now on Ebola. But with Ebola we were talking about it before, you disintegrated. You got Ebola, that was it. This one is different, much different. This is a flu. This is like a flu and this is a much different situation than Ebola. And were working on a right now by the way, were working on certain areas of the Congo. The Congo has Ebola and caused largely by the fact that they have war and people cant get there. We can now treat Ebola. At that time it was infectious and you couldnt treat it. Nobody knew anything about it. Nobody had ever heard of anything like this, so a much different situation. Yeah, go ahead. Theyve said it could be worse, and Ive said it could be worse too.  No, I dont think its inevitable. I dont think its inevitable. I think that were doing a really good job in terms of maintaining borders in terms of letting people in, in terms of checking people, and also, thats one of the reasons Im here today, getting the word out so people can Theyll know. Theyre going to know. No, I dont think its inevitable. I think that theres a chance that it could get worse. Theres a chance it could get fairly substantially worse, but nothings inevitable. Thats right, Brazil. Yes, were very strong on people coming in from Brazil. Now it only has one case, its a big country, but it only has one case, but still its a case. We deal with Brazil very well. The presidents a very good friend of mine. In fact, he ran on exactly, its called Make Brazil Great Again, thats what he ran on. We get along very well. I know youre so thrilled to hear that. We get along very, very well. And were working with Brazil, but we have much worse instances than Brazil. You have Italy and you have other countries where they have much more than one person.  They have one person right now, as of now, as of just a little while ago, one person in Brazil. But Italy is a deeper problem, and were checking people coming in very, very strongly from those. And at some point we may cut that off. At some point depending on what happens, we may cut certain additional countries off like weve had to do with China. And we hope we can open it up to China as soon as possible, and we hope the numbers that weve been getting are true on China where it really has leveled off and started to go down because eventually sometime thats going to happen. Go ahead. I think Secretary Azar is doing a fantastic job, but he also has many other things. Were working on many, many things together. If you look at his schedule of what hes doing, including drug prices, I think its perhaps the most complicated job that we have in government, and I want him to be able to focus on that. And Mike is really good at it. Theyre going to work together, theyre going to work very closely together, and theyre both in the administration. I see them all the time, so it really works. This isnt Azar, this isnt going out and getting somebody thats never been in the administration. I have two people that are very talented and its something I feel good about. I dont want to spare the horses. I have very talented people. I want to use them on this because I want it to stay low or as low as possible. President Xi. Well, I can tell you this. I speak to him. I had a talk with him very recently and he is working so hard on this problem. He is working so hard, and theyre very tough and very smart. And its a significant group of very talented people that are working. And theyre calling up Dr Fowchee, theyre calling up our people. Were dealing with them, were giving them certain advice. We actually have through World health, we have them over there also and we have a lot of our people making up that group that went over there. No, hes working very hard. Itd be very easy for me to say It doesnt matter what I say, really. I can tell you he is working I had a long talk with him the other night. He is working really, really hard. He wants it to go away from China and go away fast, and he wants to get back to business as usual. Correct. We think. We dont know exactly. And the flu is higher than that. It may. No because were ready for it. It is what it is. Were ready for it. Were really prepared. We have, as I said, we have the greatest people in the world. Were very ready for it. We hope it doesnt spread. Theres a chance that it wont spread too, and theres a chance that it will. Then its a question of at what level? So far, weve done a great job. When you have 15 people with this whole world coming into the United States, and the 15 people are either better or close to being better, thats pretty good. All right, well do one more. Go ahead. If you tell me thats happening, we would definitely investigate. We dont want that. All right, one more. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yes. Were working with China. We just did the biggest trade deal in history. We did two of them between a USMCA and the China deal. Its the biggest in history. The relationship with China is a very good one, and I can tell you that again, President Xi is working really hard. He wants this problem solved, as hard as you can work. Thank you all. I may leave you behind and you can answer a few more questions. "
"Thank you very much, everybody. Before we begin, Id like to congratulate all of those incredible people that have worked for so long on our endless war in Afghanistan. 19 years going on 20 years and there hasnt been a moment like this. Weve had very successful negotiations, we think theyll be successful in the end, the other sides tired of war. Everybodys tired of war thats been a particularly long and gruesome one. I want to congratulate President Ghani and the people of Afghanistan. I want to remember all of the people, all of the great, great men and women that have lost their lives in the war and to their parents and wives and husbands and families, brothers and sisters. Its a great, great people. Many lives over such a long period of time have been lost.  I want to thank our wounded warriors, people that are still bearing pain and all of the problems that theyve had to go through. Theyre incredible people, incredible spirit. Id go to Walter Reed and see them so often and the spirit they had, they wanted to go back despite their wounds. They always said, I want to go back. Wounded warriors, theyre incredible people. I guess most of all, I want to thank all of the people in the United States for having spent so much in terms of blood, in terms of treasure and treasury. The money that has been spent, the lives that have been lost, and we just signed an agreement that puts us in a position to get it done, bring us down to in the vicinity of 8,000 troops. The United Nations was informed of everything and NATO has been a great. Secretary Stoltenberg has been fantastic. I want to thank the United Nations for the help they gave and I also want to thank and congratulate Secretary Stoltenberg of NATO. 29 countries involved and all approving, all very happy with whats going on. I want to also thank and congratulate Secretary of State Pompeo and Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper and Ill be meeting personally with Taliban leaders in the not too distant future. Well be very much hoping that they will be doing what they say theyre going to be doing. They will be killing terrorists. They will be killing some very bad people. They will keep that fight going.  Weve had tremendous success in Afghanistan and the killing of terrorists, but its time after all these years, to go and to bring our people back home. We want to bring our people back home. And again, its been a long journey in Afghanistan in particular. Its been a very long journey. Its been a hard journey for everybody. Were very largely a law enforcement group and thats not what our soldiers are all about. Theyre fighters. Theyre the greatest fighters in the world.  As you know, weve destroyed in Syria and Iraq, 100% of the ISIS caliphate, 100%. We have thousands of prisoners. Weve killed ISIS fighters by the thousands and likewise in Afghanistan. But now its time for somebody else to do that work and thatll be the Taliban and it could be surrounding countries. There are many countries that surround Afghanistan that can help. Were 8,000 miles away, so well be bringing it down to 8,000 to approximately 8,600 in that vicinity. And then well make our final decision some point in the fairly near future, but this was a very spirited agreement. There was a lot of talk, there was a lot of everything. Theyve been trying to get this for many years and just its time.  So I just want to thank everybody. I want to congratulate everybody. I really believe the Taliban wants to do something to show that were not all wasting time. If bad things happen, well go back. I let the people know, well go back and well go back so fast and well go back with a force like nobodys ever seen and I dont think that will be necessary. I hope its not necessary. So I just wanted to bring that up before we begin on a topic that has become very, very important to everybody. First of all, the amount of work that these professionals behind me and many other professionals in many rooms behind us who are watching right now, dont have the room here to bring them all in, but they have been working round the clock so hard on the coronavirus. Its a tough one, but a lot of progress has been made. I want to provide an update to our people, to our citizens, to the world, frankly on our action to address the coronavirus and those that have been hurt badly by it.  At this moment, we have 22 patients in the United States currently that have coronavirus. Unfortunately, one person passed away overnight. She was a wonderful woman, a medically high-risk patient in her late 50s. Four others are very ill, thankfully 15 are either recovered fully or theyre well on their way to recovery. And in all cases theyve been let go in their home. Additional cases in the United States are likely, but healthy individuals should be able to fully recover and we think that will be a statement that we can make with great surety. Now that weve gotten familiar with this problem, they should be able to recover should they contract the virus. So healthy people, if youre healthy, you will probably through a process and youll be fine.  Since the early stages of the foreign outbreak, my administration is taking the most aggressive action in modern history to confront the spread of this disease. We moved very early. That was one of the decisions we made that really turned out to be a lifesaver in a sense, big lifesaver. On January 31st I imposed travel restrictions on foreign nations who had and anybody that had been to China or people coming out of China. I want to say that China seems to be making tremendous progress. Their numbers are way down and if you read Tim Cook of Apple said that theyre now in full operation again in China. The numbers are way down. Experts now agree that the decision to move so quickly despite a lot of opposition on that decision was a wise one, it greatly slowed the spread of the virus to the United States. It really gave us time to do some of the critical moves that weve done and it allowed these great professionals to get together and figure it all out. We think theyve done that.  Weve taken the most aggressive actions to confront the coronavirus. They are the most aggressive taken by any country and were the number one travel destination anywhere in the world, yet we have far fewer cases of the disease then even countries with much less travel or a much smaller population. As an important part of our efforts, on Monday Ill be meeting with the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world actually. Theyll be coming to the White House and were talking about a vaccine and developing very quickly and theyve already started working on it, developing very rapidly a vaccine for the virus, to combat the virus. And were having very good initial feedback, but these companies will be coming to the White House on Monday. Tremendous amounts of supplies are already on-hand. We have 43 million masks, which is far more than anyone would have assumed we could have had so quickly and a lot more coming.  Today, the White House Coronavirus Task Force led by Vice President Mike Pence, they met for two and a half hours. I spent a lot of that time with them also and we came up with some ideas, recommendations, and frankly some pretty strict edicts that were going to be going by and Mikes going to be discussing that. But we are really having a group of people that is so talented and theyre working around the clock and for that reason I really would wish that we could report exactly whats happened, how well were doing under quite adverse circumstances, but were doing really well. Very, very professionally handled. Our country is prepared for any circumstance. We hope its not going to be a major circumstance, itll be a smaller circumstance, but whatever the circumstances, were prepared. Id like to just ask and caution that the media, we would respectfully ask the media and politicians and everybody else involved, not do anything to incite a panic because theres no reason to panic at all.  This is something that is being handled professionally. I also want to thank, by the way, governors and representatives of our various states in some cases some more than others because theyve really been working very hard in areas where weve seen indication of the virus. But I want to thank the governors and all of the representatives from all of our states. The rooms theyve made available, the speed with which theyve worked is really been incredible. So again, thank you to everybody. Im going to ask Mike Pence now to discuss a little bit about travel and we have some restrictions on some travel from other countries that are having a hard time. I want to thank everybody. Well take some questions as soon as were finished. Thank you very much. No. No. No. Hoax referring to the action that they take to try and pin this on somebody because weve done such a good job. The hoax is on them not Im not talking about whats happening here. Im talking what theyre doing. Thats the hoax. Thats just a continuation of the hoax, whether its the impeachment hoax or the Russia, Russia, Russia hoax. This is what Im talking about. Certainly not referring to this. How could anybody refer to this? This is very serious stuff, but the way they refer to it because these people have done such an incredible job and I dont like it when they are criticizing these people and thats the hoax. Thats what Im talking about. Thats a very dishonest question because he has had that ability to do virtually whatever hes wanted to do and in fact- In fact he was never muzzled. I think I can speak You can speak Why dont you speak to that? Very dishonest question, but thats okay. We are looking also Southern border. In fact, some of the folks are here right now.  is here someplace and yes, we are thinking about Southern border. We have received a lot of power on the Southern border over the last couple of years from the courts, but we are looking at that very strongly. Well, I hope they dont change their routine, but maybe Anthony, Ill let you answer that or Bob. Do you want to answer that? We care very much for the troops. Were in constant touch with the troops. Weve been speaking to the general, as you probably know, 32,000 troops in South Korea and thats all working out fine and were in touch We were in touch with the authorities in South Korea too. Okay. So again, the hoax was used with respect to Democrats and what they were saying. It was a hoax what they were saying and that was very clear if youd read the words and I think you know that too. As far as what responsibility, my great responsibility I think the biggest decision we made was going very early and that was a decision made against a lot of people that thought we shouldnt do that. Thats why were at 22 instead of a much higher number, would have been a much higher number. That was a big decision. It was a hard decision because it had never been done before anyway. I mean not even early or late, it had never been made a decision like that so that was big.  My next thing is really getting the best people in the world. Theyre standing behind me. These people are so talented. Ive seen them in action now for a number of weeks actually, but for in particular for the last four or five days. I want to thank Mike Pence and everybody for the job theyre doing. We have a great team. We have great people and this too will end. Go ahead, please. Go. Well, I think so. I mean, we lead a life. I get around. I was in South Carolina last night. We had a tremendous rally. Ive been around. I think were going to be in very good shape. You know, youre talking about 22 people right now in this whole very vast country so I think well be in very good shape. Hes a terrific man. Hes been fantastic and everything hes done. Hes highly respected. He wanted to wait till after the IG report came in as you saw originally. I dont think he was officially or formally nominated. His name was thrown out, but he wanted to wait till after the IG report. The IG report has now come and weve learned a lot of very bad things from the IG report as you know very well and I think hell go through a process and itll go fairly quickly. Hes very respected man. Somebody that Ive gotten to like, somebody who really has Hes someone whos really distinguished himself and I think over the last year and a half, two years in particular. Were very happy with that.  As far as the Taliban is concerned, everybody wanted this to happen. The Taliban wanted it to happen. President Ghani was very much involved in this as you know and hes now dealing with the Taliban, but were talking about 19 years weve been there, 19 years and other presidents have tried to do this. The Taliban has given a pledge and a very strong pledge and Well see how that all works out. We hope its going to work out very well. I think they have big incentives to do it, but they have to take care of the terrorists and kill the terrorists. Well be working in a different kind of a fashion toward that end, but the job weve done has been a fantastic one in terms of terrorist and terrorism and its time for our people to start coming home. Some measures. Weve been in very close contact with China, including myself with President Xi. He very much wanted this to happen. He wanted us to get out and finished and be done. He worked  Wanted this to happen. He wanted us to get out and finished and be done. Hes been working very, very hard, I can tell you that. And theyre making a lot of progress in China. You probably saw Starbucks are now opened again. You probably saw that as I mentioned, Tim just came out and he said Apple is back to normal in terms of production and their facilities in China. Theyve made a lot of progress. Well we have a great relationship as you know with Mexico. We have 27,000 soldiers, their soldiers on our border doing a fantastic job. Our numbers are way down, people coming into our country illegally. We have ports of entry that we are keeping open and were not talking about it. Were thinking about all borders. We have to think about that border. But right now that is not a border as it pertains to what were talking about here. This is not a border that seems to be much of a problem right now. We hope we wont have to do that. Yes please, go ahead. No, no, you werent. Please. Well I think our relationship with China is very good. We just did a big trade deal. Were starting on another trade deal with China, a very big one and weve been working very closely. Theyve been talking to our people. Weve been talking to their people having to do with the virus. No, our relationship with China is very good. Maybe its closer because of whats happened here because it was In a certain way, this can bring the world closer. If you want to know, it can really do that. Go ahead. Well first of all- Well look at that. Look, nobody should be criticizing this deal after 19 years. He had his chance. He didnt do it. He was very much in favor of going in. We should have never gone in, in the first place. When they went into Iraq Listen, listen. When they went into Iraq, when they went into the Middle East in such a fashion, I was very much against it. Shouldnt have gone in. He thought we should have. Thats been proven wrong. Im surprised that anybody would be against something where we try and end a 19 year war. Were 8,000 miles away from our home, weve done a great job in the sense that weve killed a lot of terrorists. Weve put them out of commission. Who knows what they wouldve done if we didnt do that, but its time for us to come home.  Now the Taliban, working with other nations perhaps because youre surrounded by other very strong nations. And whether its Pakistan or Iran or lots of other places including Russia, they can all work on this. Weve been doing it for nations that are surrounding Afghanistan. Now its time for us to start coming home. And I think its a very good situation. President Ghani is working on it very hard. Well see how that works out. But the United States has done great services for people all over the world, that frankly I dont think theyve been given really the kind of respect that they should be given for what weve done. What we have done for the world is incredible and usually we dont even get a thank you.  In Afghanistan, we did something and I will tell you for the most part I noticed he was negative, but he should have tried to do something better. He was here for a year. He could have done something better. I was all ears and he wasnt able to do that. The deal has a chance to be extremely good, but what it does do is we start bringing our people back home. Yeah. No, no. Go ahead. Good its about time. No I think the Fed has a very important role and especially psychological. I mean if you look at the The Fed has a massive impact. Lots of it is psychological and lots of it is fact. This is something I think they should have done even beyond this and before this because other countries that are not as nearly as prime, were the greatest in the world. Its our currency, everything, we have everything. We should have the lowest interest rates. We dont have the lowest interest rates. Our Fed rate is higher. You look at Germany, you look at Japan, you look at other countries, many of them have negative rates. And we are not put in that position because of our Fed and now we have this problem. You saw where Germany is lowering and also infusing a lot of money into their economy, a tremendous amount.  I havent heard our Fed say they should do this. Our Fed should start being a leader, not a follower. Our Fed has been a follower. We need a Fed thats going to be a leader. We should have at least the same rates and ideally lower rates than other countries. We shouldnt be paying more, but were forced to pay more on interest and we are the most prime. Think of it, biggest economy in the world by far. China would have overtaken us and this year they were expected to for five years. 2019 they were going to overtake us. Theyre not even close and they wont be close. As long as somebody smart is right here, they wont be close.  But I will say this, relationship with them is good. But as far as the Fed is concerned, our Fed should be a leader. Our Fed has not been a leader at all. Frankly, we could refinance our debt at even lower rates. The rates are very low, but we should be refinancing debt at even lower rates. Our Fed is making us pay more than we should and thats ridiculous. Right. I think this process will go very quickly. I think Democrat, Republican, liberal, conservative, this process is going to go very quickly. And you know that- Excuse me? Yeah. We can do that. Want to do that? Okay. Would you like to say something? All right. By the way, the meeting with the pharmaceutical companies was actually set up before over drug pricing because we want prices to go way down, but it turns out to be a very convenient meeting as it pertains to the vaccine. Well talk about both. Well let me just respond quickly and then Im going to have Mike say something about that because Ive heard pretty good explanations actually. When it came to healthcare, Indiana has been a leader, an absolute leader, and it was really started with others, but by Mike Pence. And hes done a phenomenal job on healthcare. One of the best, if not the best in the country. And with that, Ill let Mike respond specifically if you want to. Great answer and hes doing a great job. Go ahead. Hes doing a great job. Great answer, thank you. Go ahead. When was that? When? Okay. Were speaking to President Erdogan a lot and we are talking to him about exactly what youre referring to. The markets will all come back. The markets are very strong. The consumer is unbelievably strong. The companies are very strong. We have one problem. We have to get this problem brought into focus and it is right now I think our professionals are doing a great job. Im not thinking in terms. Well its certainly not a good situation. When you lose travel, thats a big part of market. But for a period of time were going to have to do whatevers necessary. Safety, health, number one. And the markets will take care of themselves. The companies are very powerful. Our consumer has never been in a better position than they are right now. Larry Kudlow was telling me before that the numbers I said dont even bring it up, what difference? But the numbers are very strong. Hes got numbers from Friday. Very strong. You see the numbers. But our focus is on exactly this. Its not on that. That will take care of itself. I think the big thing were looking for is the Fed to do its job. If the Fed does its job, thats what we are really looking for. Where prior to this, as you know we announced that were going to be at the end of the year. Were going to be toward the end of the year, were going to be announcing a middle income tax cut. In order to get that through, I dont think the Democrats are going to be approving any tax cuts because they like to raise taxes instead of lower taxes. But well be in the not too distant future announcing a very major middle income tax cut. Okay? Ladies and gentleman, thank you. Go ahead please. I think its always good to be prepared. I think its always good. But we are super prepared. When you hear 43 million masks as an example. I will do one more. Go ahead the gentleman. Correct. We all want to discuss arms control and thats a wise thing. Were spending now over $20 billion on nuclear and on the super speed missiles and many other things. And they have come to me and they all want to now discuss arms control. And that includes China and that includes Russia and I think its very smart of them to want to do it and I think its very smart of us to want to do it. And we will be discussing that in New York. One final question. Go ahead. No, no, please. Like today. Okay. Today. Theyll start immediately. So ladies and gentlemen, well be doing this quite often. Were going to keep you abreast of all of the facts and again, I want to thank the professionals. They are great professionals. Ive gotten to really know them and see them under very interesting and tough and trying conditions. We have the finest in the world. I will say this, other countries call us and they ask would it be possible for them to speak to Anthony and Bob and the people that youre talking to on a daily basis now. So were going to be very transparent. Well be meeting you probably tomorrow or the next day. Well keep you abreast. Thank you very much."
"Discuss how the federal government can accelerate the development of vaccines and therapeutic treatments for the coronavirus. We want to welcome Dr. Deborah Birx. And Dr. Birx has been to the White House a lot over her career, and shes now going to be here working with Mike Pence and everybody full-time. And we appreciate it. We appreciate it very much, Dr. Birx, and a real expert in her field. And if youd like, you can ask her a couple of questions when were finished.  Were working very hard to expedite the longer process of developing a vaccine. Were also moving with maximum speed to develop therapies so that we can help people recover as quickly as possible. We have a lot of recovery going on. We want to see if we can advance that. Its likely that therapies will be available before a vaccine is actually ready and well seek to bring all effective treatments to market as soon as possible. Some very good work has been done on the vaccine. However, they have some good progress and youll be able to ask a couple of questions of the folks here. Were also working with Congress to ensure that America has what it needs to respond to this challenge, this great challenge, but everybodys responding very well. Since the start of the outbreak, my administration has taken the most aggressive action in history to protect our citizens, including closing our borders very early, a lot earlier than people wanted us to do and that turned out to be a good decision.  I ordered sweeping travel restrictions, increased travel advisory levels, established screening measures and opposed historic quarantines. We have quarantines all over the country. A lot of the Coronavirus shows the importance of bringing manufacturing back to America so that we are producing at home, the medicines and equipment and everything else that we need to protect the publics health. And Ive been talking about this for a long time.  That process has already started. It started long before we ever knew about this. We want to make certain things at home. We want to be doing our manufacturing at home. Its not only done in China, its done in many other places, including Ireland and a lot of places make our different drugs and things that we need so badly. And its not good to be dealing with one or two or three countries and we do very little at home and were going to start doing it at home.  And weve been talking about that for long time. And a lot of the drug companies, because of what weve done in terms of incentives and taxes, theyre heading back here anyway. The Coronavirus shows the importance of bringing all of that manufacturing back to America, and we will have that started. Its already started, frankly. It started about a year ago.  The White House Coronavirus Task Force led by Vice President Mike Pence has been meeting daily and coordinating closely with the state and local governments. Mike had a call today with 53 governors and I heard it was a very good call and everybodys very well coordinated and the Governors and the States, all of them, I cant think of an exception, theyve been really working closely with us. Its been a very good relationship.  We will confront this challenge together and we will continue to do exactly what were doing and were going to be very successful. A lot of things are happening, a lot of very exciting things are happening and theyre happening very rapidly. So with that, Id like to introduce Mike and you can say a little bit as to your calls and some of the things that are happening today. And Alex maybe you can give a little update and then well go around the room and people can introduce themselves, if thats okay? Go ahead, please. Supplemental is moving along very rapidly. Everyone wants to get that done. Moving along quickly, Emma, please. Thank you, Emma. Beautiful. Thank you very much. Please, Anthony, go ahead. Id like you to say something anyway, I think . Thank you, Tony, very much. Bob? Thank you, Bob. Please. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. John, go ahead, please. When do you think you could have the vaccine? When do you think youd be able to have it, start producing it? All right. Okay. Thank you very much. Lenny? That means youd be able to use a vaccine that early? That process would be faster than Johns? So this would be a combination of a vaccine and also it will put it in a different way, make you better quicker. Thats true. Thank you very much. Thanks, Lenny. Appreciate it. Please. And what is your timing then? What would you say? So youre talking over the next few months you think you can have a vaccine? Yeah. And how long would that take? So youre talking within a- Lennys talking about two months. In a couple of months. I mean, I like the sound of a couple of months better. Lets be honest. Ready to use - Ready to use when? Would you say. Ready to use? For next season. Go quickly. What do you say to that, Lenny?"
"Thank you. Thank you, Tony. Good. Good. Thank you. Thank you, Francis. Thank you. Good. Hi, John. Good. Thank you Francis. Thank you very much. Good. Well, I want to thank you all. This is incredible, and Ive heard about you, and I know all of you by name, and now I get to meet you. Unfortunately, I get to meet you because were talking about this. But weve made tremendous progress. I know youre dealing with other nations to help them out, because they got hit some of them very badly, and were talking to them also. And were making decisions as to whether or not were allowed to travel, theyre allowed to travel. Weve been pretty severe on those restrictions, but I guess we did the right thing by being severe.  NIH is the home of, I mean I see so many different factors, and its true the greatest doctors, Ive heard that for so long. I heard that from my uncle, Dr. John Trump. He a big fan of what youve done, and how it started and its really been an incredible situation. But the scientists and researchers all over the world, they say this is the best there is, and I think the world is extremely happy that youre involved. And, Tony, your reputation is second to none. I think we all agree with that. You have to agree with that, John, right? I mean you have no choice. But the fact is that it is, in this case its true, and were very lucky to have you. I will say that the Vice President is over in the Hill, hes just leaving now, and I told him to stay there and finish it up. But were doing very well in terms of getting the funding we need, the necessary funding. And I asked for X and they want to give us more than X and thats okay, as far as Im concerned. In this case, Francis, thats unusual, but thats okay. But I just want to thank everybody at NIH, and all of the great scientists and doctors, and everything. I know youre working around the clock. I know youve made some great finds already, and that really makes us feel very good.  We had some good meetings yesterday with the companies that, I guess you ultimately would go to the companies, youd have to go to the companies. So we had Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, and some of the other great companies, and they were very positive as to the outcome. And therapeutics were a very big thing, because I guess therapeutics could happen faster than the actual vaccine, and certainly the result can happen a lot faster. So were looking for some good answers, but I just want to thank you very much Tony, and we really appreciate it. And John, thank you. Thank you very much. Fantastic job. Thank you very much. And you dont have to shake hands. I see him everyday, so I dont have to bother. So thank you all very much. Great job. Appreciate it. Well, I havent been asked to, but I think were making decisions on certain parts of those countries, as you know. Weve already made a decision on parts of Italy, and Japan, its very unfortunate because Ive seen the incredible job they did on the Olympics. As you know, theyre building a facility. Its really finished. Its beautiful. Its finished right on time, as usual with the Japanese, the Prime Minister, very good friend of mine, Prime Minister Abe. And so I dont know what theyre going to do. They have this magnificent facility and I dont know what theyre going to do, but theyll make the right decision, I know that. But yes, if it was necessary I would do it. Yes. Well were looking at different areas and well make that decision with these professionals. We made an early decision based on a little bit of luck I suspect, but that was the original decision, on China itself. And China, and no offense to them, they never blamed us. It was a tough decision for them, but they fully understood. They were very reasonable about it, but that was a hard decision to make, but I guess we wouldve had a lot more people with difficulty if we didnt make that decision very early on. But well be making additional decisions as they arise, I guess, Tony. Were not looking at it very strongly, were not seeing a lot of evidence in that area. Were closing it, I guess, automatically because we have a very strong border there now. We didnt have a strong border at all. Weve built a 129 miles of wall, and the wall areas a hundred percent secure, but we havent seen any great, I dont think weve seen any great evidence that that area is a problem at this moment. So we wont have to bother with that, at this moment.  Any body? Youre so nice today, I cant believe it. Its NIH, it rubbed off. Say it? Well, its going to be a very interesting evening of television. I think its really going to be something. Ive got some races going on that didnt seem to exist a few days ago, and now Biden does come up a little bit, and I dont know whats happened with Bernie. I think theyre trying to take it away from him. I dont know if thats fair, but I guess its politics when you get right down to it. Whats fair? But I think its going to be a very interesting evening of television, and because of the time difference, California time difference, its going to go a little bit later than were accustomed to. Right? And I will be watching. Who would I like to win? Anybody. Ill take anybody I have to. Thats the way its got to work. Doesnt matter. I really just, weve done a great job. We have the strongest economy on earth. Weve gone up, and as you know, Chinas economy has been hurt very badly long before this. Weve done a really good job, and I think people understand that, and Im looking at polls that are very good, but you know, whoever it is it is. Well take them on. We have no choice, right? Anything else? No, I have no reaction. Short term missiles? No. No. I dont want to say that, but we had a very good conversation with the leader of the Taliban today, and theyre looking to get this ended, and were looking to get it ended. I think we all have a very common interest, well find out about the country itself, but the country really has to get it ended. Weve been there for 20 years. Other presidents have tried, and they have been unable to get any kind of an agreement. The relationship is very good that I have with Mullah, and we had a good long conversation today and they want to cease the violence. Theyd like to see cease violence also. Well, they may be reluctant theyve done very well with the United States for many years, far beyond military. If you look at all the money that weve spent in Afghanistan, weve spent trillions of dollars, trillions of dollars, and were really a police force. Were really not fighting per se. Its a fight that if we had to, wed win, but I dont want to kill millions of people. We would win it fairly quickly, but I dont want to kill millions of people. I think its crazy. And so weve been there, will be very, very soon itll be 20 years. And I said right from the beginning, not easy to get out of these conflicts. Very complex in terms of all of the people you have to deal with. Including, frankly, people in the Senate, people in the House, and a lot of people feel differently about things. But Ive been amazed at how positive the response is to getting out of Afghanistan, and to moving on. And I really had a great conversation with him today, yes. I havent seen that report, no. I havent seen it. Well, were going to look at the uninsured, because they have a big problem and were going to look at the uninsured people that This came as a surprise to all of us. Just happened to chose what could happen in life, but were going to be looking at the uninsured, see if we can help them out. Okay, thank you all very much. . Okay."
"Thank you, thank you. What a nice group, and thank you Marianne. I think you like Marianne a lot. I was listening. I said, Whos out there that they like so much? It was Marianne. Please sit down. Please. Before I begin, I want to send my warm wishes to the great people of Tennessee in the wake of the horrible, very vicious tornado that killed at least 19 people and injured many more. Were working with the leaders in Tennessee, including their great governor, Bill Lee, to make sure that everything is done properly. FEMA is already on the ground and Ill be going there on Friday. Our hearts are full of sorrow for the lives that were lost. Its a vicious thing, those tornadoes, Ive seen many of them during a three year period, and Ive gotten to see the results and they are vicious. If youre in their path, bad things happen. Really bad things happen.  I went to Alabama nine months ago and I saw the devastation that that left in Alabama too, and everybody was so incredible. The people were so incredible, but so many people get killed if youre in the path. And well be going, as I said, to Tennessee on Friday. We send our love and our prayers of the nation to every family that was affected. We will get there and we will recover and we will rebuild and we will help them and condolences. Tough, tough situation. Its such bad news when you see that.  Im honored to be here with the National Association of Counties at your annual legislative conference. Its a great group of people. Ive dealt with you for a long time over the years, and every once in a while Ill find one I dont like, but generally speaking youre fantastic. And when one of you are in the way, its very tough to get that job done. And when youre helpful, its real easy and we get it done and we produce a lot of jobs and good results, and I just want to say youre very important. People that are doing what I do before I got here, we realize how important you are. Incredible job really. Ive met some of the most incredible people doing exactly what you do. Thank you very much.  So, in this room there are over 1,200 county leaders whose incredible devotion, talent and drive directly and profoundly improve the lives of millions of Americans each and every day. I want you to know that my administration will always be your friend and partner and ally and resource as you work to deliver an amazing future for your counties and for your communities and for the country itself. As I said in my State of the Union address, three years ago  Ive had a number of State of the Unions already. Can you believe it? But this was three years ago. We launched the great American comeback, and we really did. We launched it with a vigor and with a certain splash that nobodys seen in a long time. And what weve done in our country has really been incredible. Our country is so strong now. Weve rebuilt our military, weve cut taxes, weve cut regulations. You know regulations.  You know the regulation business. I think you know the regulation business better than any group I can think of. Now sadly, about 5% of you are saying, Oh gee, I wish they wouldnt have cut, but 95% of you are saying it was redundant and it was a problem and I talk about highways that would take to get approved. It would take 18, 19, 20 years. I can give you many examples too. Not even big highways, sometimes roadways, but weve cut regulations at a level that nobody has ever thought possible and weve done it with the extraordinary help of local officials, people like yourselves that worked with us and worked with the Department of Transportation and all of the other departments that we work with. Weve got it down to where it would take sometimes 20, 21 years to get approvals for a highway. We think we have it down to two. I want to get it down to one, meaning that it could get rejected. We have safety concerns that we have to look at. We have environmental concerns, many concerns we have to look at.  But to go 20 years and then get a rejection. How about that? How many of those have, where you wait, lets say 10 years, and then at the end of 10 years they vote and they reject you? Okay. Theres been a couple. I guarantee theres some people in the room. Ive been involved in a couple of them. Thats not fun. You devote a big chunk of your life to something and then you lose three to two. You go home. How did you do, darling? Not good.  A lot of power in this room. You dont know the power you have. Yes you do. But weve hosted nearly 50 White House events welcoming over 3000 county leaders from all 50 states to forge powerful new bonds of cooperation. As we speak, my administration is working very closely with state and local leaders to confront the coronavirus. Were really working hard on it. Vice President Mike Pence is leading the White House coronavirus task force. Hes doing a really fantastic job too. We have already met with state, county and health officials in 30 states and conducted regular briefings with governors to coordinate our response and contain the disease. It just shows you what can happen. Six weeks ago, eight weeks ago, you never heard of this. All of a sudden its got the world aflutter, but itll work out. But its just unseen. You have it all the time. Not to this extent, sometimes to a greater extent, relatively speaking, but things happen that you never would even think would happen and then you have to confront it.  You have to do a lot of good work and you take care of the situation. You people do that better than anybody that I can think of. America has the worlds most advanced public health system. We know that our county health officials play a frontline role in battling public health threats and we are working with Congress very closely to pass supplemental legislation that ensures state and county health departments get everything they need. I asked for two and a half billion. It looks like theyre going to give us eight and a half billion. I dont think thats ever happened to me before. So I think I should say, Ill take it, right? Right? I asked for two and a half, they give me eight and a half. I say, Ill take it. But no, everyones working together very well to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the disease. I ordered sweeping travel restrictions and did them very early, as you probably have heard, earlier than people wanted me to do them and it turned out to be a wise decision.  We increased travel advisory levels, established screening measures and imposed historic quarantines. We urge all of you to share information about basic health and safety practices with your communities back home. CDC has all of the information. Its listed all over and its a good thing to refer to, but thats why following my remarks today, youll hear from Dr. Robert Redfield, the Director of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, and theyre doing a fantastic job. They are working round the clock. America has the worlds greatest professionals working and they are working very, very hard. Were moving aggressively to accelerate the process of developing a vaccine.  I met yesterday with the biggest drug companies, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson, and many of the other great companies. A lot of good things are happening and theyre happening very fast. I said, Do me a favor, speed it up, speed it up, and they will. Theyre working really hard and quick. Were moving at a maximum speed to develop the therapies, not only the vaccines but the therapies. Therapies is another word for cure where you have it, it helps get the people better faster and take down the severity of the illness. And theyve done so much. If you look at whats happened with AIDS and the tremendous job theyve done there. We will be, as an example, AIDS free within nine years. Nobody would have thought that was possible. They are doing a fantastic job.  The revival of American strength over the last three years has put our country in the best possible position to deal with this challenge. Our economy is prospering like never before. Weve relocated supply chains back to the United States. A lot of the chains now are back in the United States. And weve also, as you probably have noticed, for two years Ive been complaining about the medicines are made outside of the United States. I want them to be back here. If theres a reason why we cant use a certain country for lots of reasons, I want it to be made here. And weve already started that process before this happened. But this sort of explains why we have to do it pretty well.  Jobs and growth have soared in the United States at a level thats unprecedented, historic. Also weve had historic new investment in our country. No country on earth has had greater power to overcome adversity. What weve done in so many different ways, weve rebuilt our military, two and a half trillion dollars. Its wonderful to have a good budget, but if we dont have a strong military  You never want to be in a position where youre trying to explain to people that well, at least we had a good budget, as people are running up the front lawn of the White House. No thank you. You look over, you say, We did a hell of a job in that budget. Shouldve spent a little more money on the military I guess. But when I took over, our military was totally depleted. It was an embarrassment and weve totally rebuilt our military, most of the equipment. Much of its already there. New planes and new missiles, rockets, do everything. We make the greatest military equipment in the world, all made in the USA. All made in the USA.  All made in the USA. Every bit of it is made here. Rebuilding our Navy. Were rebuilding our Navy and were doing a job. And frankly, two and a half trillion dollars is a lot, but its not a lot when you think of the importance of the military. They say the most important thing that a president does is the court system and in particular Supreme Court judges. So Ive named 218 new federal judges. Can you believe it? Thats a record. Thats a record. Only one person beat me percentage-wise. You know who that is, right? Does anybody know? Percentage-wise, theres only one, and when you look 218, because President Obama was very nice, he left 142 to start off with. Usually you left none. I got 142. But you know who the one percentage wise was? George Washington. He had 100%. But was like 12 people. 12. At least I can say I named more him. A lot more. It was a little smaller country at the time, but he had 100%.  In our great national renewal, my administration has made engagement with local leaders a top priority because nobody understand the needs of local communities better than local officials, the people in this room. Nobody. And with your help, and we keep in touch with you, as you know, all the time. We feel very strongly about that. Our economy is right now the envy of the world. And by the way, yesterday, did you notice the market went up almost 1300 points? Thats the highest, biggest, thats the biggest one day gain in points in the history of our country. Can you believe that one? That was a nice surprise. That took about half of the the hurt from the previous week out caused by something again that we didnt think would happen. So that was tremendous. And today its up and the Federal Reserve cut rates today. Finally, finally, finally. Finally. Do it more. Do it a little bit more.  You want to be competitive with these other countries. Other countries have lower rates because their Feds, their currencies are cut to a level and their rate is cut. They play with their currency, they play with the value of their currencies. We dont do that. We dont do that. We have a different theory going and it really puts us at, and I dont say necessarily to do it, but we have to be competitive with other countries. When were paying two points more than Germany or were paying more than other countries, we should be paying less than everybody else. We have the dollar, we have the strength, we have the greatest country on earth. We should be paying less. So the Fed rate is too high. Its very simple. Its too high. It puts us at a competitive disadvantage, especially when it comes to exporting our product to other countries. The other countries love that. I dont like it at all.  So Id like to see our Fed lead, instead of being led. We have created seven million more jobs since the election, and if you would have said seven million jobs, nobody would have believed that number. The optimistic projection by the previous administration was two million jobs. Said it would be two million by this time, and it turned out to be now over seven million jobs. So, thats something really incredible. African American, Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment have reached the lowest level in history. You know that. Median household income has hit the highest level ever recorded. If you look back and you go to President Bush, its $450. If you go to President Obama, and thats for eight years, remember. If you go to President Obama for eight years, $975. And if you go to President Donald John Trump, over a period of three years, its almost $10,000. Thats a big difference.  So its much more over a much shorter period. And if you think about it, everybody take a look at it, look at the result. Our consumer is so powerful, so strong. Its really whats leading our country right now, the strength of our consumer. Nobody has a consumer like we have. So weve done a job. For the first time in nearly three decades, every single metro area in the United States has seen their income rise. Every single area. The economy of rural America  I love rural America. All that red. Rural. I love rural America. Thats great. You know, we-  Thats great. We have all those city slickers. Theyre in the back. Theyre quiet. Theyre in the back. We put them in the back corners. Thats okay. How are you doing back there? Well, theyre still waving. Oh I love those beautiful red areas, that middle of the map. Theres just a little blue here, and a little blue, everything else is bright red.  Well, what we did, for your farmers, or its been incredible that USMCA. We got out of that horrible NAFTA deal, and now we have the USMCA. Its going to make a tremendous  like day and night. And then made the deal with China, $50 billion worth of purchases for the farmer. I dont think the farmers are going to be able to do business. So, $50 billion, the highest ever was $16 billion. The biggest purchase China ever made in a year was $16 billion, so we made it $20 billion in the agreement. And then the day before the agreement was signed, I said, How are we doing with the farmer? Because they suffered, of course not too much, because I gave them whatever they got taken. Nobody else would do that. Paid for by China out of the tariffs, and we had a lot left over. That wasnt so bad. Thats why the other presidents never did it, because they didnt quite get it.  But I will say the farmer, so they have $20 billion in the agreement. I said, Do me a favor, make it $50 billion. They got 1.5 billion people, right? And they said, No, no, no. I said, What does it matter to you? What does it matter? It doesnt make any difference. Anyway, they agreed to do it. So instead of $20 billion, highest ever was $16 billion in one year, two years ago. Instead of $20 billion, they made it $50 billion. And now my people look at me and say, Sir, the American farmer will not be able to produce that much. I said, Trust me, they will produce that much.  Remember I said, Tell them to go buy more land, and get bigger tractors, right? we buy more land, assuming they get approval from you people. Youve got to approve them. but now the farmers, they was so incredible, the farmer. The way when the CNNs of the world would go and interview them, looking for somebody to speak negatively, because when were negotiating, China is very smart, and they pulled back all their orders. They didnt order almost anything. And theyd see the farmer. The farmers were hurt. I mean, until we started helping them out with money from China. But frankly, which was a tremendous thing actually, but the farmers never said anything bad. Normally theyd say, Oh, its terrible what hes doing. Well you have to make the deal. Theres some suffering going on. Its an operation. Its like an operation. And the farmer, the American farmer, I dont know that Ive seen almost anybody, and they tried to stick that microphone, What do you think of the horrible thing where President Trump is in a trade war with China? And theyd say, Sir, it should have been done a long time ago. Its painful, but this shouldve been 15 and 20 years ago.  And then CNN would pull that mic away, I dont like this guy. Lets find somebody else. and theyd put it in front of somebody else. And then theyd interview women in the rural communities. Theyd say, Are you disappointed that you voted, Democrats that voted for Trump, right? Are you disappointed? They had one about two weeks ago, right? You saw. It was a classic. I think they convinced CNN that they were going to say bad things about me, 10 just incredible women, and they convinced them. And you are women that voted for President Trump last time. Who are you going to vote for this time? 10, all of them, they go, Trump.  What? What? What? That was a crowd. Now, now, now. This is not supposed to be a political rally. This is not a political rally. I dont like talking politics. Were talking about the economy, Rural America. I dont like talking about politics. This is a pretty wild group you have here. But its a great group of people. Its a great feeling. You can feel it. I mean, we have a great group of people, and I appreciate it. The economy of Rural America has grown 30 times faster under my administration than during the four years prior to my election. Think of it, 30 times. 30 times! That sounds like an exaggeration. If it is, youll read about it tomorrow on the Washington. Theyll give me a Pinocchio. Well, thats what they have. They had to get it somewhere. One thing I know, its grown a hell of a lot faster. 30 times sounds like a lot, but they are. Theyre doing great.  Together, were building the most prosperous economy, and the most inclusive society ever to exist in this country. Under our massive tax cuts, governors across the country have designated nearly 9,000 distressed community as opportunity zones, and neighborhoods are being revitalized every single day. You see that. The opportunities zones. Its Senator Tim Scott from South Carolina has been so incredible. He came in with the idea of opportunities zones, and I dont think theres been anything like it. We have them all over the  thousands all over the country, and areas that havent seen investment in 40 years. People are putting tremendous amounts of money, investors. Sometimes youd say, rich people are putting money in, theyre creating jobs, and theyre happy with it. Nobody has seen anything like it. Its really a prospect. Maybe because the economy is so good, but things like that help make the economy good. So its been very unusual. Almost never does that stuff work. And then the government comes in with massive subsidies, and loses their shirt. This is something where people are investing in areas that they would have never ever in a million years invested in, and its become a tremendous success. The fake news doesnt like talking about it, unfortunately, but one day they will, because I think you cant help. Its become one of the great successes.  Were also promoting workforce development through our pledge to Americas workers. 430 companies have already committed to providing new jobs and training opportunities to over 15 million Americans. And I give my daughter, Ivanka, a lot of credit for that. She came in. She said, Daddy. Its true. She had a great company in New York. She wanted to just come, and just help people get jobs. I said, Would you like to do this?  No, I want to help people get jobs. She started off with 500,000 jobs, and she just broke 15 million. She did the 500,000, if you know her, Im not surprised. She did the 500,000 like the first week, but 500,000 jobs is a lot. So shell go to a Walmart, and many of the great companies, and Johnson & Johnson, and theyll hire a large amounts. I think it was Walmart that did a million people where they train them, and government is in no position to train them. You understand that. Government wouldnt know where to begin. It would just be another program that they have that would be a disaster. So shed go to these  no, no, you cant. You just cant do that.  The private companies  and they all said its very specific. Theyre very specific needs. One of the problems we have is that were having tremendous amounts of companies moving back to the United States, and moving into your communities. And the problem they have is in many cases they cant get help. And now what theyre doing is theyre taking people that didnt have jobs and theyre training them, specifically training them. And Ivankas had that job, and its been incredible.  In the State of the Union address, I called on Congress to support my plan to offer vocational and technical education in every high school . Its true. And I love the term vocational schools, because to me it says it. I mean, when I went to school, I had people and one person in particular, he wasnt very good as a student, but he could after hours take apart a motor or an engine of a car, and he could strip it blindfolded, put it back together in 15 minutes. It was the most incredible thing. I said, This is your real ability. He just had an ability that was extraordinary, not for sitting there writing out tests, but for doing things like that, which are frankly just as important and high paying jobs. Theyre really high paying jobs. And I love the name vocational school.  When I was growing up, we used to use Edison Vocational School, where they train them for cars, and for brick laying, and for plumbing, and all the things that theres tremendous talent involved, and it was incredible. You dont see that now, they call them junior colleges. And as junior colleges, you dont really know what that means. What is a junior college? What does it mean? So were getting back to the word vocational. I thought it was very important, and its something that theyre very proud of, and I would be very proud also. People have that tremendous ability, and we dont allow them to use it. We want to help every American acquire cutting-edge skills that they need for the jobs today, and for tomorrow to put more money in American pockets.  Weve launched the groundbreaking Regulatory Reduction campaign by cutting regulations, yeah, by cutting regulations on one of the most exciting things that happened. If you look at the other side, they want to get rid of all energy. Lets put up windmills all over your communities, right? Lets have windmills all over the place. And solar. I love solar, but its not powerful enough to power these massive factories and plants that we have being built all over. But by cutting regulations, on American energy, for example, were massively driving down energy prices.  You see that happening, unless its an area or a community within not allowing that to happen, in which case, New York is an example, were unable to build a pipeline through New York state, where theyd love the jobs of doing the pipeline. And because of that, New England has very, very high energy prices. We could cut the energy prices in New York and New England down by half, less than half if they would allow. And were fighting them very hard, and I think well be successful. But if theyd allow a pipeline to go through we would cut the prices of energy down by half, and even more so than that. Its a terrible thing. Its a very unfair thing to the rest of the country. The American energy revolution is now saving the typical family of four, an average of $2,500 per year. And I will say this, we are now energy independent. How nice is that, energy independent? Energy independent, thats why you dont see all those ships going out to the straits, and coming back and they keep looking for our ships. What happened to the USA ships? I dont see them too much anymore. But were energy independent and were the largest producer of energy by far in the world. It wasnt that way not so long ago, so   And we approve the Keystone XL Pipeline, you know that. And we approve the Dakota Access Pipeline. I came in, those two, I did them on my first week or less, and it was 48,000 jobs. But more importantly, its actually environmentally better. Youre taking it under the soil. Nobody even sees it. Youre under the soil, as opposed to trains, and the problems that can happen. So its been a tremendous thing. But with us today Rebecca Long, Commissioner of Lee County, New Mexico. How am I doing in New Mexico? I hear were going to win New Mexico. Were going to win New Mexico. Rebecca, please come forward and say a little bit about whats happening on the energy boom, and your state is right up at the forefront, and were very proud of New Mexico. Now, if I dont win it, I wont say that. Ill take it. Ill come back and Ill say next year, I was only kidding about New Mexico. Please, hi, how are you? Its my honor, thank you very much. Perfect, . Thats great. Thank you very much. Wow. Wow. Thats fantastic. Thank you very much. . Wow, good job. Now again, were not getting political, because I refuse to do that. But you know Rebecca, that if Bernie, or one of these characters get in, you can close up your energy. You do know that? They have little things like, we dont want petroleum products. Well thats a lot of people. Thats a lot. Were also building your wall right along the border to stop people from coming into our country illegally, right? You know that.  Say hello to the people of New Mexico. Ill be there soon. Were reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that decimated so many of your communities. You know that. You know it probably better than anybody in the country how bad it was. We have successfully renegotiated new trade deals with South Korea and Japan, who were really ripping us. South Korea, remember Hillary Clinton, great Hillary Clinton, she said, No, no, we want this deal. It will produce 250,000 jobs, and she was right, for South Korea. Its true. It got South Korea 250, so you cant say she was wrong. She wasnt misleading us. She said 250,000. It was a horrible deal, and weve totally renegotiated that with South Korea. Now its a good deal for the United States, and a fairer deal. That was a ridiculous deal.  In January we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe, and I signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement into law, USMCA. And we also took the strongest ever action to stand up to Chinas trade abuses, which frankly, for years, explain that one, what was happening with China, $500 billion a year deficits, allowing us to reach a landmark agreement that will deliver vast benefits for our ranchers, growers, manufacturers, farmers. Working closely with local officials, weve taken bold action to curb the opioid epidemic, which is such a problem no matter where you come from. And for the first time in 31 years, we actually went down a little bit. We went down. Some communities are down 17%, 18%, 19%. One is down 21%, but still it is a massive, massive problem for our country. Drug overdose problems are just a terrible, terrible problem. And its a world problem, too. No matter where you go, its pretty tough stuff. And frankly, I should say, no matter where you go, unless they have really, really strong measures against the dealers.  Really, really strong measures against the dealers, in which case they have no problem. I wonder how that works. How does that work, Mary, when you go to a country where they have a very, very stringent, unbelievably stringent, like probably we cant do in our country, they have no drug problem. You go into China, you say, Hows your drug problem? They dont even know President Xi doesnt even know what youre talking about. We have no drug problem. They have quick trials, right? Quick trials. And I wont even tell you what the punishment is, but let me just say its very swift.  You go to Singapore, they dont have a drug problem in Singapore. A lot of money, a lot of everything, perfectly set up for a drug problem, everything perfect, but they are very, very tough and I just dont know whether or not this country is ready for that, whether or not it can do it, but the only countries that dont have a drug problem are countries where the retribution is unbelievably tough.  When we work together, we can dramatically improve public safety. It is just especially vital that all state and local officials cooperate fully with all requests from our courageous ICE officers. I hope I dont insult anybody, but the ICE officers are taking people out of your communities by the thousands, including MS-13 gang members. If you didnt have them and your local enforcement doesnt want to do that. These are seriously tough, crazy people in many cases. And were getting them the hell out of our country and were bringing it back to where they came from and were keeping them there.  And Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, so many of these countries and in the past administration they couldnt bring the back because theyd say, No, no, you cant bring them back. Get out. You cant bring them back. So theyd fly over. They wouldnt let them land. They wouldnt let buses go in with these people, would have to bring them back. They dont do that with us. With us, they say, Thank you very much. Thank you for bringing these wonderful citizens back. MS-13 you can have them. And now we bring them back and they take them immediately.  And we just have set records for coming through the border. Were setting records now on not coming through the border. We built a 128 miles of wall. Weve already got 100 and we have some going up in New Mexico just now. Well we have 128 miles and you think that was easy getting that thing I could do anything. I could rebuild the military for two and a half trillion, but if youre going to spend 25 cents on a wall, it was like you couldnt do it. They would shut down the country. We actually did shut down the country for a little while, frankly, but we ended up getting the money and the wall is under construction. Were building a lot. Were up to 128 miles and well have close to 500 miles sometime pretty early next year.  And in the area where have the walls, as you people know, because youre also people of great common sense, youre brilliant, but you have great common sense. Thats why youre doing what youre doing. At least the good ones do. The bad ones probably dont. There must be some bad ones in the room, right? But its a matter of common so much of life and so much of government is common sense. But where we have a wall, the numbers just went down to almost zero. Now they go around and thats why the wall gets longer and longer. But the numbers have been incredible.  The Democrats used to say, We dont want a wall. Well give you drones. They wanted to give me drones. I said, What good are drones? Theyre going to be flying around in the air, watching thousands of people cross the border. What good are drone? No, no, well give you technology. They were saying, Walls. Walls are old fashioned. Yeah, two things will never change a wall and a wheel. Right? Come back in 1,000 years, youre going to have a wheel. Come back in 1,000 years, youre going to a wall. Theyre probably the only two things that arent going to change in life. But it is true when you think of it as that. So we have 128. Were building it rapidly and its exactly what Border Patrol wanted. They did tests on every form of what you can have and its an expensive wall, in terms of expensive, very expensive per square foot, but its the kind of wall we need. We might as well if were going to do it, we might as well do it right.  They had a big story two weeks ago that the wall fell down, my wall fell down. You know how Im saying how strong it is. I always liked to brag about it, because it really is. Its deep set into the ground surrounded by heavy concrete and steel. Its actually made of steel on the outside, concrete and rebar inside into there. Its got everything, right. And one of the big newscasters, they said, The wall fell down. I said, Oh, this is bad. Im building a wall. It falls down. Thats terrible.  So, I go, What the hell happened with the wall? Well, sir, they had a tremendous windstorm and we were just setting it in very wet concrete. We were holding it up as much as we could until the concrete dried and the wind came at 58 miles an hour, sir, and it blew the wall over. We put it back up and we held it with cranes. I said, You mean you were putting it up and the concrete was soaking wet? Yes sir. We just put it in the concrete and it fell down. Oh, they didnt say that. They didnt say that. They dont say little things like that, do they? I dont know how you put up with the fake news. Americans are safest when we support the heroes of federal, state and local law enforcement. My administration theyre incredible people. They do an incredible job and Ill tell you what, theyre very much appreciated in our country. You read so many things, but they are very much appreciated. And ICE has done an incredible of getting very bad, some very bad people out of your communities.  My administration is also reshaping our nations approach to mental illness. My budget calls for almost $5 billion to improve access to inpatient mental health care through Medicaid. And as you know, county jails were not meant to deal with the mental illness problem. They werent. They were. Thank you. Thank you. I didnt know that that was going to hit such a high note really. I mean, thats incredible. I didnt know that that was going to be appreciated the way you get its meant to be, but you understand the situations. You understand, the people in this room understand all of the things were talking about better than any people I can imagine, even people in Washington. Youre on the ground. So when you make a statement like that, thats very meaningful to me when you give it that kind of a response. I wouldnt have thought it wouldve had that response. Its also not compassionate to leave those with mental illness on the streets and you see that. So we must get Americans the care that they need. From day one, my administration has worked closely with you to overcome natural disasters, such as the tornado in Tennessee. Since I took office, 62% of counties have received major emergency or disaster declarations with the federal government committing over $124 billion to support your citizens in very trying times and we get you the money quickly. We check it. We do what we have to do, but I think everybody in this room would say that you get the money much quicker under our administration than in the past. It used to be unfair. It used to be very unfair, to a point where you really couldnt even properly do the work. It would take you so long to get the money. You were afraid to do the work. We get it to you quickly.  Were joined today by Kathryn Starkey of Pasco County, Florida. Good place. Kathryn please come up and share your story about your community and recovering from a very big disaster that I know very well. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Wow. Thank you, Kathryn. Thank you very much. Beautiful. And I have to say, Kathryn, that you had a two governors. You had Rick Scott previously, right? And he did a fantastic job. Now your Senator, and your current governor, Ron DeSantis, and they would come to my office, say, President, could we see you just for a minute? Oh, good. Separately, but very similar. They wanted money. I said, Well, what do you want? We dont need much. We did a little bit more for the Panhandle as an example, and I said, Oh good. I love the Panhandle. They got everything they needed, that I can tell you. But theyd say, We need another little bit of money. How much you need? 500 million more. 500 million. Thats a lot. Youve got it. But theyd come up it goes to the Panhandle.  Look these people, having the right governor in a state is so important. The good ones, they bug me, bug me, bug me. You have great ones in this country. You have so many great ones that Governor Lee is a great one in Tennessee. You have so many Texas, Greg Abbott. But Ron DeSantis, the job hes doing, the job that Rick did as governor, Rick Scott. Its so important if youd have the wrong governor, its not helpful. Yes, absolutely. But if you have the wrong governor, you understand that better than anybody. If you have the wrong governor, doesnt work.  But they would come up and theyd want to get everything set and done and they need it fast because you have to rebuild your community and debris was the biggest thing. Kathryn, right? Debris. Debris was the biggest thing. Theyd bid it out and theyd had bids that were so crazy. One would be very low and the others would be very high and they werent allowed through red tape to use the low one. And I worked at so that they could use the low one. And we did a lot of great things, but Florida has really has done, they have done a fantastic job. Thank you very much. That was beautiful.  Everyone here is devoted and really a devoted public servant. You love your neighbors, you love your country, you love this nation like nobody else. Every day were working with you to build a country where every town is booming, every community is prospering. And every child has the chance to reach the American dream. As long as I am president, the federal government is on your side 100%. Thank you. Thank you.  You will always have a very important seat at the table and you will always find an open door at the White House. Many of you have come to the White House and weve had a lot of good discussions. No matter what community you represent, were all united by our loyalty to the citizens we serve and the knowledge that America is the most exceptional nation anywhere in the history of the world. To every county leader and its so brilliant to have you here because you really are the people that know it the best, and I really know that much more from my previous life. This life is different, to put it mildly. I thought it would be easier. Its actually much tougher. But I know it from my previous life. I know the talent that you have, the insight that you have. Its really incredible, and I want to thank you for your unbelievable service. Thank you for your selfless devotion and thank you for fighting for a glorious future of American greatness. God bless you all. God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"And were talking about the effects of the virus on the air travel and what they see. In a certain way, you could say that the borders are automatically shut down without having to say shut down. To me, theyre to a certain extent automatically shut down. But its affecting the airline business as it would and a lot of people are staying in our country and theyre shopping and using our hotels in this country. So from that standpoint, I think probably theres a positive impact, but theres also an impact on overseas travel, which will be fairly substantial and Mike, maybe Ill let you give a little briefing as to what we just discussed. Good, Mike. Thank you very much. I just want to add and to go a little bit further, the Obama administration made a decision on testing that turned out to be very detrimental to what were doing and we undid that decision a few days ago so that the testing can take place in a much more accurate and rapid fashion. That was a decision we disagreed with. I dont think we wouldve made it, but for some reason it was made. But weve undone that decision. Also, when people come in from certain areas were doing checks, not only at the site of takeoff, but at the side of landing. So when they land in our country, well also do, thats if the planes are leaving from certain destinations. I might ask doctor, if you could, Id like you to say a few words. Youve been doing a fantastic job in just a short time. We havent had much time, but youve really been doing a really fantastic time. Please. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Doug, do you have anything to say? Doug is the head of American Airlines as you know. Maybe well go around the room, if youd like to say something, please. We appreciate the job youre doing. Thank you very much. Please. Are you using different things for the cleaning, the fluids? Are you using different ? Thank you very much. Great job. Peter. Good. Thank you very much. Thanks, Peter. Chad, did you have anything to say about all that? And Chad, anything different on the southern border where were doing so well? Were setting records on the southern border in terms of allowing the people that are supposed to be here in but not allowing others in. Anything new on the southern border? Good job. Thank you. Yeah. And were were doing a good job. These professionals are really amazing, theyve really stepped up like the airlines have stepped up very much so. Thank you. Thank you very much. Oscar. Thats right. You are a heart transplant survivor. I was reading about that as one of the big executives, great executives of our country, of the world, and your heart transplant. Ill tell you, you look very good to me, Oscar. You have that one down. Dont recommend it, but you, thats fantastic story. Wow, thats great. Thank you very much, Oscar. Mike, why dont you finish it up? Great job, Mike. As a certain areas get to be more of a problem, we may close them up as we have done with numerous areas. At this moment, we think we have it very much in hand. Weve closed certain areas down very strongly. In some cases, not whole countries, but certain areas within countries like in Italy. We are I think doing a very effective job in terms of that. Its very important.  The one thing that we were discussing before is you really dont know what the percentage of some people will have this at a very light level and wont even go to a doctor or a hospital. Theyll get better. There are many people like that. Young people seem to be, you cant say immune to it, but theres certainly, the numbers are very small. And it does affect the older people that, like the nursing home situation that we have on the west coast, a single nursing home where we have a pretty big percentage of people. But as things go along, so were trying to adjust the number, were trying to see what the number might be, but if you add many, many people that have it and dont know they have it or they think they have a cold and all of a sudden theyre recovering from it. I think that number will probably be a lot different numbers than the twos and even the one and a halves that were hearing. And I think thats an important thing for people to know.  Im very proud of the people in the administration. Im very proud of the airline business. You said it very well when you said the airline business always seems to pull together and Ive seen that over the years and this is a great case of it. And I want to thank you all, youre great executives and you love the country and you love what you do and thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Dont ask that question please because they havent asked it. So I dont want you to give them any ideas or youll end up heading an airline. Hell end up heading an airline. Thats a pretty tough question. So I dont. We havent discussed that yet. I think where these people are flying, its safe to fly. In large portions of the world are very safe to fly. So we dont want to say anything other than that. And we have closed down certain sections of the world frankly. And theyve sort of automatically closed them also. And if theyll understand that and they understand it better perhaps than anybody. Yes, its safe. Well, a lot of people are doing a lot of domestic business now. I can tell you theyre staying in this country. They feel safe because we have a, if you look at a percentage, we have a very, very small percentage and a big percentage of what we have is when we brought in the 40 or so people from the ship. We brought them in, we immediately quarantined them.  But youre adding that to the numbers that we had, which were very small. Now what were going to do is as people get better, because most of these people are getting better. Some are already released, some are going home, some get a full 100% report. Were going to take them off the list. But we have a very small number of people in this country. We have a big country. The biggest impact we had was when we took the 40 plus people, theyre Americans. I mean, I could say dont let them into the country, but these are Americans and they were literally stranded and it was very unfair. We brought them back. We immediately quarantined them. But you add that to the numbers, but if you dont add that to the numbers, were talking about very small numbers in the United States.  Weve all done a very good job, all of us. And I think the news has been in the, for the most part, the media has really treated us very fairly, which I appreciate. I think its very important. Ask the head of American Airlines or United Airlines. Maybe Dr. Burks, Dr. Burks, you can maybe say something. And I havent touched my face in weeks and weeks. Its been weeks. I miss it. Doug, what would you say about that? I would think, Oscar, how would you handle that? You have a lot of people theyve booked and now made a- I think people are going to be very impressed with what the airlines do. Well, lets talk about it. Go ahead. This was a very big move and it was something that we had to do and we did it very quickly and now we have tremendous flexibility, many, many more sites, many, many more people. And you couldnt have had that under the Obama rule and we ended that rule very quickly. Yes. Go ahead, Chad. And much of that has been done already. Thank you very much everybody. No questions on the election? This has to be . I think the election was a great last night. I thought it was great. I thought the results were, it was a great comeback for Joe Biden. Incredible comeback when you think about it. But if you wouldve looked, if Elizabeth Warren would have done what she probably should have done from their point of view, he wouldve won. Right? He would have won a lot of States including Massachusetts, probably Texas, definitely Minnesota. So Bernie wouldve won states that he lost I think it was fairly easily. But in particular, Massachusetts, I would say Minnesota in particular. I would also say Texas and some others. So had she, I put something out on it this morning. She was really a spoiler because other people got out in those votes in order to Joe. And those people really helped Joe by getting out early. But the couple that got out as the endorsement. In the case of Elizabeth Warren, had she gotten out, it wouldve been a very different situation I think.  It would have been a very different night. Just that one simple move. Had she left, you pick up Massachusetts, Minnesota and probably Texas and those are the three I check. I would imagine there are others that he wouldve picked up, too. So Elizabeth Warren was the single biggest factor in that election last night. It would have been a very different thing and not in a positive way for her, in a very selfish way for her. She was very selfish from that point of view. Now do I care? No, because were just waiting to find out who were running against. But when you look at it, pretty incredible. If she wouldve gotten out and endorsed, even if she didnt, she didnt even have to endorse. I think theres a lot of bad blood there, but had she gotten out and endorsed, he wouldve been a lot better off. Well now I think its a very tough, I think its tough. I think Joe has an easier path right now, believe it or not. I see Mini Mike just got out and hes going to try and save face by putting some money into Bidens campaign and well see what happens. I dont think thats going to have an impact. You got to look, money has to be spent wisely. One thing this whole thing has shown that you cant buy an election. Its a beautiful thing. Steyer put in $250, $300 million and now who knows where he is? Hes home probably licking his wounds. And Bloomberg put in probably $1 billion and sometimes you just dont have what it takes. And I said to him, Its not easy doing what I did, is it? So its one of those things, but its going to be very interesting to think that this would have changed so much because if you go before Saturday, before South Carolina, I mean, Joe had absolutely no chance according to you people.  But they used to say that about me, too. Not as much though. I think I always felt that I had a very good chance. But Id watch and theyd say, Well, it cant happen. But it happened and it happened pretty easily. I think Joe actually would have the advantage now. If you look at the states hes going to with Florida and others, I think hes got an advantage in those states. But again, had Elizabeth Warren endorsed Bernie, youre talking about a whole different subject and thats not even a question. Youre talking about a whole because he wouldve gotten 80, 90 almost. I mean, he wouldve gotten most of those votes. So youre talking about a much different I think, well, Ive said from the beginning, its partially this, its a big part of this, but its also the fact that they didnt like seeing what theyre seeing. But they dont like Joe either. Joes become, a lot of people are with Joe. If you look at those people, theyre worse than Bernie in terms of being radical left. I mean, some of Joes handlers and thats what they are is handlers. I want to be nice, but they are handlers. Some of Joes handlers are further left than Bernie. Thats pretty scary. So its going to be that way. Well, it couldnt be less powerful because look what $1 billion did. He won nothing. I mean he got so few delegates. Its incredible. I would say probably, well, now hes doing that because hes spiteful and hes a spiteful guy. I know him well, hes a very spiteful guy, hes very upset. He made a fool out of himself to be honest with you. And hes not too happy about that. I think the first thing he should do is fire his political consultants because I could have told, I know, I could have told him very easily, you cant win. You can put $2 billion in, you cant win. Okay. Thank you, everybody."
"Does everybody understand that? Yeah, sure. Just one second. Let him finish up. Just tell them about how have you done with the testing - They have plenty of materials is what youre saying? And they have had. Doctor, do you want to make a little statement? Thank you, I appreciate it, and the whole situation is  The testing has been amazing actually, what theyve been able to produce in such a short period of time. You had mentioned four million tests before? Four million? What number will it be? And they started working when they saw there was a problem in China, that was many weeks ago. So they saw there was something going on in China long before anybody even heard of it. That was actually before it was even in the print. They heard there was a problem in China. Thats when they started working on this and thats pretty incredible. Thats why were in good shape. Doctor? And now its all performing perfectly. Just so you understand, now its all performing perfect. Theyre fantastic people. These are fantastic people. Now its performing very well and it has been performing very well. And as you said, you had two of the three that worked perfectly and thats all you need is two of the group. In fact, you could have one of the three and it would work. So we had two of the three but now its performing perfectly in all cases. I do think whats happening though is you have people that are sick but they dont go to the hospital or theyre not very sick. Its a more minor case and it could be of this virus. But we have a lot of people that arent going to the hospital so were not seeing those people. And if you did see those people, I believe,  service, the statistics actually become much better because they heal, they get better. They dont see a doctor, they dont see a hospital. They have a problem, they have the sniffles or a cold or , some of the symptoms, and over a period of time, a short period of time or even a longer period of time, they get better.  If you look at that, then all of a sudden youre coming into a much lower category of risk in terms of death type risk. Because I think a lot of people arent going to the doctors, a lot of people arent going to hospitals and so youre not seeing those people. Well, were considering different but were also considering the fact that last year you had approximately 36000 deaths due to whats called the flu. When I first heard this four or five, six weeks ago, when I was hearing the amount of people that died of the flu, I was shocked to hear anywhere from 27000 to 70000 or 77000, and I guess they said in 1990, that wasnt particular very bad. It was higher than that. As of the time I left the plane with you, we had 240 cases, thats at least what was on a very fine network known as Fox News. I know you love it, but thats what I happened to be watching. And how was the show last night? Did it get good ratings by the way? Oh really? I heard it broke  records but maybe- Oh, yeah. Yeah, I heard you broke all  records, but maybe thats wrong. Thats what they told me. I dont know. I cant imagine that. But what happened is if you look at the number, the time we left, it was 240 cases, Peter, and 11 deaths. Thats what it has been. You look at throughout the world, I mean other countries have.. South Korea and Italy, and in particular, China, have many.  Now, I also hear their numbers are getting much better in those places and Ive heard their numbers are getting much better in China, but I hear their numbers are getting much in Italy, et cetera, et cetera. But when I hear  So we have 240 cases, 11 deaths, everything is too much and its true. I dont want 11 deaths. I dont want any deaths. Over the last long period of time, when people have the flu, you have an average of 36,000 people dying. I never heard those numbers. I would have been shocked. I would have said does anybody die from the flu? I didnt know people died from the flu. 36,000 people died. 27,000 to 77,000, thats your flu. And again, you had a couple of years where it was over 100,000 people died from the flu.  So I start to say I wonder whats going on here. Now, if you look at the percentage, the percentage for the flu is under 1%, but this could also be under 1% because many of the people that arent that sick dont report, so theyre not putting those people in there, and youre smiling when I say that.  Who are you from, by the way? Which? You are? I dont watch CNN, thats why I dont recognize you.  I dont watch it. I dont watch CNN because CNN is fake news. Go ahead. Of course its an effect. It is an effect. Now, you know if you know anything about me, I like when people happen to stay in the United States and spend their money in the United States. So I think people are staying in the United States more, theyre going to spend their money in the United States,  this is ended. It will end. People have to remain calm.  I do think that if you look at the numbers and you look at the numbers from other years or on other things and you look at these numbers, itll be interesting to see what you find and statistics will soon be coming out. But there was a big statistic today that its way under 1%. It said one-tenth of 1% in one case, but nobody really knows. Well be able to find out.  The problem is for people to get better that dont see a doctor or dont go to a hospital, those people get better if they were in the numbers. The numbers would look much better in terms of death rate. Oh, I think youll have other things. The amazing thing, and look at the job numbers today. We had a tremendous job number today.  We had a number that when you add last months number, which was a correction of plus 80,000 jobs, wasnt it a 350,000 jobs number today? That was shocking. I was watching a particular network and they said on the net, but theyre pros, they said, Wow, these are unbelievable numbers. They were shocked by the numbers. Over 350,000, when you add last months correction. Peter? I think its fine if they want to do it. I dont think its an overreaction, but I wouldnt be generally inclined to do it. I really wouldnt be. Now, it depends on what country youre talking about. If youre talking about if theyre going to another country, or are you talking about within the United States? Yeah, they have to feel comfortable. People have to feel comfortable to have a good time. If you look at do I want to go to China, do I want to go to certain parts of Italy, do I want to go to South Korea, right now? Thats a different decision. But you have some parts of the world and some parts, many, most parts of the country.  In this big vast land of ours, this great country of ours, we have 240 cases. Most of those people are going to be fine. A vast majority are going to be fine. Weve had 11 deaths and theyve been largely old people who were susceptible to whats happening. Now, that would be the case, I assume, with a regular flu too. If somebody is old and in a weakened state or ill, theyre susceptible to the common flu too. They would tell me just now that the common flu kills people and old people is sort of the target. And the young. Now, the interesting thing here, its very interesting. The interesting thing here is that the young seem to be doing unbelievable well. Actually, better than they do with the flu. Young people and very young people are doing very well, which is another thing I guess theyre trying to figure out. Not at all. No, not at all. Not at all. Im a person that was never big on a handshaking deal throughout my life. They used to criticize me for it, or laugh about it or have fun with it. But if youre a politician, like I walk in and the doctors have their hands out, Hello, sir, how you? If you dont shake hands, theyre not going to like you too much, and I guess thats my business. I never thought Id be a politician. I guess Im a politician, but the fact is I feel very secure. I feel very secure. I was told that one person maybe that works someplace in the building that Im not even sure what level, but that one person may have had the virus. And therefore, they said, sir, because of the fact that one person may have had the Its a big building with a lot of great scientists, frankly. One person had the virus, and that turned out to be a negative report. That turned out to be negative, and so they called me but it was already canceled. But this morning, I said, wait a minute, Im going to Tennessee. Were going down to Florida to have a meeting on Monday as you know, and so were going to Florida. Id love to stop, the CDC. That was a big deal with Secret Service, but theyre fantastic and they worked it out, so we stopped. But it was a report, and the person, it was a negative diagnosis. No, we had another big deal. There were two of them, and there was a thing that we recommended because there was a lot of people, and we recommended that they let them cancel that one. But there was another one in a similar area. No, I havent. Well, Ill tell you what, I havent had any problem filling them. We just had one in North Carolina, South Carolina, all over the place, and we have tens of thousands of people standing outside the arenas. So we havent had It doesnt bother me at all, and it doesnt bother them at all. Well, thats a big question. So I was just on the phone with Vice President and theyre trying to make a decision. Frankly, if it were up to me, I would be inclined to say leave everybody on the ship for a period of time and you use the ship as your base, but a lot of people would rather do it a different way. Theyd rather quarantine people on the land. Now, when they do that, our numbers are going to go up. Our numbers are going to go up. The 240 is going to go up, and I assume that perhaps its a very big ship with thousands of people on it, including the sailors and the crew. Youre talking about a massive number of people. That is a big ship.  If it were up to me, I would do it that way. A lot of people think we should do it the other way. Theyre Americans. Theyre mostly Americans, and we have to take care of Americans. Bring them off the ship.  No, theyll be under quarantine and theyll be tested very carefully. Everyone is tested very carefully. Somebody said today In fact, the Governor said a story that a friend of yours, Governor Kemp? A friend of yours was saying how tough it is to get into the United States with all of the testing. Maybe youd like to say. But he was very impressed with how hard it is to get on the plane. He was tested two times, and then one person said three times, just to come in. Were watching it very closely. The people are doing a good job and instead of being negative, you should be positive. These scientists are doing a phenomenal job with something that came from out of nowhere, a very short time ago. Its all right. Its all right. Anybody that wants a test can get a test. Thats what the bottom line is. But I think importantly, anybody right now and yesterday, anybody that needs a test, gets a test. Theyre there. They have the test, and the tests are beautiful. Anybody that needs a test, gets a test. If theres a doctor that wants to test, if there is somebody coming off a ship like the big monster ship thats out there, right now. Which, again, thats a big decision, do I want to bring all those people on? People would like me to do that. I dont like the idea of doing it, but anybody that needs a test can have a test.  Theyre all set. They have them out there. In addition to that, theyre making millions of more as we speak. But as of right now and yesterday, anybody that needs a test, thats the important thing and the tests are all perfect, like the letter was perfect. The transcription was perfect, right? This was not as perfect as that, but pretty good. Were handling it from South Korea. Were testing that you cant come in from South Korea unless they go through. Id have to ask the doctors. And this is, by the way, the highest level test. This is the highest level test anywhere. Thats a very good question. From my Yes. From my standpoint, I want to rely on people. I have great experts, including our Vice President who is working 24 hours a day on this stuff. They would like to have the people come off. Id rather have the people stay, but Id go with them. I told them to make the final decision. I would rather it because I like the numbers being where they are, I dont need to have the numbers double because of one ship that wasnt our fault, and it wasnt the fault of the people on the ship either. It wasnt their fault either, and theyre mostly Americans, so I can live either way with it. Id rather have them stay on, personally, but I fully understand if they want to take them off. I gave them the authority to make the decision. No. No. No, Im saying whatever it is, that takes precedence over the numbers. No. I like the numbers. I would rather have the numbers stay where they are. But if they want to take them off, theyll take them off. But if that happens, all of a sudden your 240 is obviously going to be a much higher number and probably the 11 will be a higher number too. There is probably risk to both. Probably risk to both. Were working very closely with South Korea. Yeah. Well, were working closely with South Korea. Theyre also in a much different position. They have a lot of people that are infected. We dont. Theyre in a much different position, but we are working very closely with South Korea. As you know, were allies, even though theyve made much better trade deals in the past than we did. Were allies with South Korea. You have heard that, right? And were working very closely with South Korea. And a lot of the testing is very similar testing, but theyre in a much different position than we They have thousands of people and theyve got some difficult right now, but were working very closely. In fact, theyre calling us, asking us and these people for advice. And dont forget these are the people as an example HIV, I talked about it in speeches and other things, HIV free or essentially free within nine years now its a ten year process. These are the people that came up with the answers to this stuff that three years ago, four years ago you wouldve said its impossible. What theyve done is incredible and to others also. If you look at what theyve done with HIV, its incredible. Other countries are all calling the same people that youre dealing with. And honestly, what you should be doing is giving them a lot of credit because this was a very condensed period of time. Even the vaccine, theyre going to have tests done in 90 days that two years ago you were taking two years to do. And their making great progress. It takes a period of time, but theyre making great progress. Other countries are dealing with the same people youre talking to now and others in this government universe theyre incredible people, and honestly, you should be giving them tremendous credit. They have done a tremendous job.  When you mentioned South Korea, theyre dealing with us all the time. When you mentioned Italy theyre dealing with us all the time. Were working together with China. Were working together with everybody. But these are great people. These are incredible people, and you shouldnt be knocking them. You should be praising them. They have done an incredible job already. I just think this is something, Peter, that you can never really think is going to happen. Ive heard all about this could be a big deal from before it happened. Something like this could happen. I think were doing a really good job in this country at keeping it down. Weve really been very vigilant, and weve done a tremendous job at keeping it down. But who wouldve thought, look how long ago is it? Six, seven, eight weeks ago? Who wouldve thought, would he be having this subject? We were going to hit 30,000 on the Dow. Like it was clockwork, right? It was all going, it was right up, and then all of a sudden this came out.  All I say is be calm, we have the greatest people in the world. Everyones relying on us, the world is relying on us. Theyve done an incredible job in a very condensed period of time. The thing is you never really know when something like this is going to strike and what its going to be. This is different than something else. This is a very different thing than something else. So I think theyve done a great job. And you know what if I didnt think they did, Id tell you. I just dont think that somebody is going to, without seeing something like we saw something happening in China. As soon as they saw that happening, they essentially, not from the White House, we dont need a lab in the White House, but they saw something happening. I found it very interesting. They spotted something going on in China. When you see these labs that I just saw, I would love to have them see it if its possible, but they spotted something going on in China. They started working on it immediately. Just in case it should come here, and also to help China. I mean if we could find something thats beneficial, we want to give it to China, like theyre going to want to give it to us. Chinas working very closely with us, South Korea, Italy, all of them. Theyve been working very close here, but were doing, again 240 and 11 thats where we are right now. We dont have a forecast because we dont know. We dont know how many people have this arent going to see a doctor, arent going to see a hospital. And the higher that number is, the better the number is from the standpoint of death, the death count. They get better without seeing doctors, without seeing the hospitals. So nobodys marking it down and I think the number is very high. I think that number is much higher, but it never gets reported because theyre not going to hospitals or doctors. The ones that get reported are people that are really sick enough to go to a hospital or to a doctor. So it makes the numbers look worse.  Were prepared for anything, were prepared. We are really very highly prepared for anything. And in a short period of time, I mean what theyve done is very incredible. And Ive seen what theyve done back there. Its really incredible. And by the way, NIH, what theyve done, I spent time over there and I like this stuff. My uncle is a great person who was at MIT. He taught at MIT for I think a record number of years. He was a great, super genius. Dr. John Trump. I like this stuff. I really get it. People are surprised that I understand that I understand it. Every one of these doctors said, how do you know so much about this? Maybe I have a natural ability. Maybe I should have done that instead of running for President. But you know what? What theyve done is very incredible. I understand that whole world. I love that world. I really do. I love that world. And they should be given tremendous credit, and the whole world is relying on us.  You hear about youre saying about South Korea. South Koreas very much reliant on the information were given them, and theyre reliant on the vaccines that we will come up with very soon were going to come up. Now it takes a period of time to get them tested and then put into the market. It has to be very safe. You cant give a vaccine thats going to be unsafe. It would be a disaster. So thats where we are and I think these people deserve, all of them, the scientists, the doctors, I think they deserve tremendous credit. I really do. He did. So I told Mike not to be complimentary of the governor because that governor is a snake. Okay. Inslee. And I said, if youre nice to him, he will take advantage. And I would have said no. Let me just tell you, we have a lot of problems with the governor and the governor of Washington thats where you have many of your problems. Okay. So Mike may be happy with him, but Im not. Okay. And he would say that naturally.  And as I said last night at the town hall, if we came up with a cure today and tomorrow, everything is gone. And you went up to this governor who is not a good governor by the way. If you went up to this governor and you said to him, how did Trump do? Hed say he did a terrible job. It makes no difference. If we came up with a cure, right now and tomorrow everything ended at eight oclock tomorrow morning, everything ended. He would say, Trump, did a horrible job. Okay. And I told Mike that would happen. I said, no matter how nice you are, hes no good. Thats the way I feel. Goodbye. Good luck to CNN. Theyre not testing. Theyre sampling people in other countries. Excuse me. Theres a difference. I heard what he said. Theyre sampling people. Its a drive-by. They give samples. Now can we do that? Yeah, we can do that, but thats not effective like what were doing. Were doing the whole thing in one stop. Theyre doing samples in South Korea. Its a very different thing. Go ahead. Would you like to say something? The difference is that theyre being proactive. We are being proactive. Were going out and looking for spots. Nobody else is doing that. Not by leaving samples or anything else. Were going out and proactively looking to see where theres a problem. We dont have to do that, but were doing it to see if we can find areas which are trouble spots. I dont even know if I agree with that. Youll find out those areas just by sitting back and waiting, but theyre trying to find out before you would normally find out by waiting. And I think thats great, but thats what theyre doing.  Were the only country in that sense thats proactive. Were totally proactive, and were totally equipped to handle it. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much."
"Thank you. Thank you. Hi, Bret. Thank you very much. Thank you. So great. Nice audience. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, actually, we were giving  I think really given tremendous marks. You look at Gallup Poll, you look at other polls for the way weve handled it. And one of the things I did is I closed down the borders to China and to other areas that are very badly affected and really having a lot of troubles. I mean, countries and areas of countries that have had a lot of problem. And I closed them down very early, against the advice of almost everybody, and weve been given rave reviews. And thats why we have only, right now, its a lot of people, but its still 11 people versus tremendous numbers of thousands of people that have died all over the world. We have 11. We have 149 cases, as of this moment. This morning, it was 129. And I just see right now its about 149 cases. There are 100,000 cases all over the world. So we were really given tremendous marks for having made the decision. That was a decision I made to close down the border so that people from China, where we take in thousands and thousands of people a day, they stopped coming in very early, weeks ahead of where they normally would have been stopped. Well, I dont blame anybody. I want to get everybody to understand they made some decisions which were not good decisions. We inherited decisions that they made, and thats fine. Yes. We undid some of the regulations that were made that made it very difficult, but Im not blaming anybody. It just seems that the Democrats, some of them, I must say and you know it better than anybody, Bret, its become much better. But some of the Democrats have said, no matter what, if we found a cure and everybody is better tomorrow morning at nine oclock, they would say, Hes done a terrible job. Its just automatic. How is the President doing? Terrible, terrible. They dont mean it. And weve done a great job. Again, weve gotten the highest poll numbers of anybody for this kind of a thing. And the other thing, Im working with phenomenal people, with CDC and all of the people involved. Mike Pence is doing a fantastic job. I mean, Mike Pence is working 20 hours a day or more on this and really doing a fantastic job. Well, when you say take office, we just learned about this a very short while ago. I know, but were not going to be  Im thinking about a lot of other things too like trade and millions of other things. I mean, we are doing some job with the economy. So Im not thinking about this. But as soon as I heard that China had a problem, I said, Whats going on with China? How many people are coming in? Nobody but me asked that question. And you know better than again, you know, you both know that I closed the borders very early. Weve been given A-pluses for that. Saved a lot of lives. Well, the testing, we did it as soon as we found out that it was a problem, we did it. Its not the kind of thing you say, Gee, I just got elected. Lets do some testing on this. They had some bad decisions. Some bad decisions were made. We corrected those decisions. Well, I think people are viewing us as having done a very good job. What we have to do is do a very professional job. Nobody is blaming us for the virus. Nobody. I mean, I havent heard that, even from some of the so-called enemies or whatever you want to call them. Theyre not blaming us. This started in China. How it started, theres question but thousands and thousands of cases in China. And it infiltrated to almost 100 countries right now. Nobody is blaming me. Well, look, we were set to hit 30,000 on the Dow. This is a number that nobody ever even came close to, and already, we have the number. And even though its down 10 or 11%, its still the highest its ever been by far. It certainly might have an impact. At the same time, I have to say, people are now staying in the United States, spending their money in the U.S., and I like that. You know, Ive been after that for a long time. You know that. Ive been saying, Lets stay in the U.S. Spend your money here. And theyre doing that. Theyve sort of been forced doing that. We met with the airline companies yesterday. Theyre doing a fantastic job. And theyre just not flying to areas that have a big problem. So, its going to all work out. Everybody has to be calm. Its all going to work out. Sure. We could have a very long-term plan. We hope that doesnt happen, but we have plans for every single possibility, and I think thats what we have to do. We hope it doesnt last too long. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah. Well, I have to tell you, I think  I appreciate the question. I think the country is far more united than people think. And, ultimately, whats uniting the country is success. And were having more success than weve ever had. We got hit with the virus, really, three weeks ago, if you think about it, I guess. Thats when we first started, really, to see some possible effects. But even despite that, the country we are having the greatest year. We had last year was the greatest year weve ever had, economically. And I think the way we unite is really through success. But when they hit us, we have to hit back. I feel that. I mean, theres two ways of doing it, turning your cheek but I wouldnt be sitting up here if I turned my cheek. If I said, Okay, let them just keep hitting at me, and I wont do it. Theyre not interviewing me right now, theyre interviewing somebody else. Maybe they wont even be doing that, because if they dont get ratings, they dont interview anybody. That Ive learned from. But you know what? You cant turn your cheek. I mean, we get hit. Thank you. We get hit so hard, and we have a media that is you know, I say, to a large extent, its a part of the Democrat Party. It really is. Its terrible. Its unfair. I call it fake news. Ive used that, and people are using that, I guess, all over the world right now. And thats the way it is. We have to fight back. If we dont fight back, you wont be a fan of mine very long. But I appreciate the question. Thank you. You mean theyre blaming me for Schumer? Why not? Well, look, I mean, we had a justice come out and criticize me badly. And I just responded to what she said. I had it twice. And when you look at I had a very harsh criticism, as you know. Justice Ginsburg just before a debate, during the election, as I was getting elected, she came out, she had to apologize. It was a terrible thing she said. She should have never been allowed to say it. But if they say something to me, Im not allowed to say back. You had another justice say something that was somewhat derogatory, and all I did was respond. But I didnt respond like Schumer. Schumer that was a physical thing, in my opinion. You know, he tried to say, well, that has to do with the election. That had nothing to do with the election, the way he said were going to hit back like youve never seen before. That was a real intimidation. And the best you can say is theyre trying to intimidate so the justices vote their way. Thats no good either. But that was a physical/ That was really  If a Republican did what Schumer did, theyd be in jail right now. Its true. Well, look, I have to state the facts. Im not threatening anybody physically. But if we have an Obama judge, we dont do very well. Now, weve appointed 220 federal judges the most, I think, in history. Its a record. Its a record. Because, number one, Mitch McConnell did a great job and the Republicans did a great job. But the bottom line is, President Obama gave me 142 openings when I first got there. Normally, you would have  Theres never been anything like that. Normally, youd have no opening. Now, do you say hes a great President? The most important thing you have to do, I say, is the military, but a lot of people say its judges and justices of the Supreme Court. President Obama gave us 142. Its unheard of. If you have one, its like you got lucky. Had 142. Were up to 220 federal judges and court of appeals judges, two Supreme Court justices. I mean, its incredible. But we were going  If you go to the Ninth Circuit, if you go certain places, its almost impossible to win. So I was surprised at Justice Roberts. And I have a lot of respect for him. I like him personally. I have a lot of respect. But I think that could have been left unsaid, because a lot of people, a lot of very top legal minds disagreed with him when he said it. Now, Im just talking about the facts. Im talking about, sort of, the facts of life. Thats the way it is. Good. Thank you, David. David, I love the question, because our EPA is much different. Were very tough, but we get things done and were taking regulations off like nobody has ever seen. And I say very simply, I want to have the cleanest air on the planet. I want to have the most crystal clear, beautiful water on the planet. And our conditions now are much better than they were three years ago. But you know very well, David, because youre into the world of regulation, I think it was maybe one of the biggest things weve done. Ive cut regulations more than any President, whether they have eight years, four years, or in one case, quite a bit more than eight years. I cut more than any other President in the history of our country, and I did it in less than three years. So its a great question. The EPA was  This is why I was able to get the country going because so many jobs were stopped by not only EPA, so many other agencies, where youd have to go get 11 different permits for essentially the same thing. I opened up LNG plants in Louisiana where they were for years for 10, 12, 14 years and longer trying to get permits. They couldnt get permits. I got them built. A 10-billion-dollar plant in Louisiana, the Keystone XL pipeline. I gave it in my first week. I got approval. The Dakota Access Pipeline, I got the approval. 48,000 jobs. And, frankly, its more environmentally, its better than having a train going up and down tracks, and you dont know what happens with the train. Plenty of bad things happen with those trains. Here, youre underground, environmentally better. So I think its a great question. One of the reasons the economy is so strong is because of what we did with regulations. If the other side, well call it the other side, affectionately got in, they would have made regulations much, much tougher. Thank you.  Thank you. I think they thought you were going to give them a different answer, and thats why they asked you that question. That sounded like a set-up question. But, David, youre my man. David is my man. I like that. Well, Martha, this area of Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania itself has the best numbers its ever had. Its got the best economy its ever had. It has the best unemployment numbers its ever had. And Scranton has the lowest and best unemployment numbers and employment numbers too that theyve ever had by far. So were very happy about the job. The people in Pennsylvania, theyre very happy with the job. You know, it was 30 years since a Republican won Pennsylvania, and based on results, I think well win it again very easily. Well, look, if shes a true progressive, which probably she is, she should have dropped out three days ago. It would have been a whole different race. Texas was close. She got votes. She didnt do well, but she got a lot of votes, far more than the difference. Think about Maine. Maine was almost a tie. They had to wait a day and a half before they could even call it, it was so close. She, I guess, came in third, and it was very distant third, but she got a lot of votes. Maine would have gone to  I think he would have gotten everything, right? Bernie Sanders would have won five, six, seven states. Wouldve won Minnesota. Wouldve won, at least, another two or three states. So when you look at it, she did him no favors. That was not a good friendship. We started to see that during the debates, by the way. That one became unhinged. But if she would have gone out, she didnt even have to endorse him. If she just dropped out of the race, without an endorsement, he would have won a tremendous number of states that he lost. You know, he lost states by not very much, and she got enough votes that it would have made a big difference. I think he would be leading by a lot right now had she not been in the race. So it was a fake impeachment. We had a hundred  Think of it. And the Republicans in the House, we had 196 votes in favor, zero from the Republicans. Zero against. We picked up three Democrat votes on top of that. And we had one Democrat was so angry by it, that he left the party and became a Republican which I think is a first time, because he left a majority and went into a minority. Van Drew. And it was a whole fake deal. And everybody knows that. I made a phone call. It was a perfect phone call. There was nothing wrong with it. And they said, Lets impeach. Now, the real backstory is when the phony whistleblower, whos a total phony, he heard the call, supposedly through somebody, through the informant. Do you notice the way everybody disappeared? Thank goodness I had a transcriber. We had more than one. Thank goodness we had that call transcribed, because the transcripts of the call revealed that it was a perfect call. By that time, they were already talking about impeachment. And they were going by a phony whistleblower rendition of a call that didnt exist. Just like Adam Schiff, he goes before Congress and he starts talking about eight quid pro quos and Dont call me, Ill call you. Well, thats a mob expression. Dont call me  And everybody saying, Thats a terrible call. He made it up. It was totally made up. And I said, Good. Well sue him. Well take him down. And then I find out hes got immunity because he made it in Congress. It should almost be the opposite. You should almost have to be more honest if youre in Congress. I think that Biden has been damaged, yeah. A lot of people. I saw a couple of statements very strong statements by very respected people in your world, saying they aimed at Trump but they took Biden down. And, really, thats what happened, when you think. Because you look at the son, heres a guy, didnt have a job, who was unfortunately sadly, the military was a very sad experience for him. He goes out, he gets $3 million plus $183,000 a month to be a board member of a company that a lot of people said was corrupt. Worse just as bad China, I just made a great China deal. China is paying us billions and billions of dollars because of what I did to them with tariffs. Billions of dollars. I mean, to a point where my farmers are in love with me because I took some of that money and gave it to them. But his son walks out of China with a billion and a half dollars for a fund. Now, a billion and a half dollars for fund meaning hes going to make hundreds of thousands of dollars a year, and much more than that. Ill tell you, I was all set for Bernie, because I thought it was going to happen. You know, we get ready for things, right? So, mentally, Im all set for Bernie. Communist, I had everything down. Hes a communist. I was all set. And then we have this crazy thing that happened, right? On Tuesday, which he thought was Thursday. But he also said 150 million people were killed with guns and he was running for the United States Senate. Support me, Im running for the United States. Theres something going on there. But I was all set. I was all set. And when I focus and we all focus, sometimes you do well and some people choke. I watched Mini Mike choke. When Mini Mike was hit by a very mean woman, he said, Get me off this stage. Just get me off. And that wasnt a pretty sight to be  But I was all set to take on Bernie. I was ready. And then all of a sudden, I say, Guess what? I went to the First Lady, who people love. I go in to the First Lady, and I said, He just won Texas. He just won  Et cetera, et cetera. By the way, so close. It was a whole different thing because of her. So now Im ready for Bernie and now all of a sudden I have a whole different, you know, its a whole different deal. Two very different people. I think, in a certain way, Bernie would be tougher because hes got a base. Its a much smaller base than my base. I think a lot of my people are here because, and I did nothing to do that, but we have a lot of support in Pennsylvania and I think we have a lot of support everywhere. Look at the rallies. Look at the rallies. But I was all set for Bernie. I was ready to go. And then I say, You know, I dont think Im running against Bernie. I think its going to be very hard for him to come back. Part 2 Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Its a great question and very important, healthcare and I think its probably the thing that Im most disappointed that I havent been able to say what a good job weve done. I havent been able to sell what a great job weve done.  First of all, I get rid of the individual mandate, which was the worst part of Obamacare. Thats where you paid a fortune not to pay for horrible healthcare and insurance, and it had a tremendous impact. Preexisting conditions, 100% we take care of. But we have many healthcare plans now where its 60%, even 65% less expensive than Obamacare. Its better than Obamacare, and what we really have left is the carcass of Obamacare or you could call it new healthcare, because without preexisting without the whole thing with the individual mandate, its a whole different ball game. Its a much different plan.  And what wed like to do is totally kill it, but come up, before we do that, with something thats great. What weve done is weve really managed Obamacare, the remaining portion, we get rid of the bad part, but the remaining portion really well. And before I got involved, you know what was happening with the rates on Obamacare. They were going up at levels that nobodys ever seen before. We are managing it.  And I had a decision to make. This was very important. I said to my people, and we have great people, , Azar, I mean great people that are so good at it. I said, You know, I have a little problem. Do we manage it great until we get something much better? Or do we manage it poorly and say Obamacares horrible. And I said, Weve got to do the right thing. Weve got to manage it really, really good. So its not great healthcare, but were managing it fantastically and you dont see all those stories about the rates going through the roof anymore because we know what were doing.  At the same time, we want to get you really fantastic healthcare. If we can win back the house, well be able to do that. We have to win back the House, keep the Senate, keep the White House. . Thank you. Thank you for the question. Thats what I said. Yeah, thats what I said, we want to terminate Obamacare because its bad. Look, were running it really well, but we know its defective. Its very defective. We got rid of the worst part and that was a very important thing. Getting rid of the individual mandate was a very important thing. But we want to get something if we can get the House, youll have the best healthcare, health insurance anywhere on the planet, but we have to get the House back. Now that means we have to hold the Senate, we have to get the House, we have to obviously keep the White House. But what were doing is managing it really well.  Now its a case, its called Texas versus you understand, its Texas is suing. They want to terminate it, but everybody there is also saying and everybody, we have our great Senator from Pennsylvania, thank you very much, Pat, for being here. And Pat Toomey, but very important and by the way, our great Congressman, I have to say they were warriors, right? Real warriors in terms of the fake impeachment. I will tell you that.  Texas is, and its Texas and many states, theyre tried to terminate, but they want to put something thats much better. Theyre terminating it to put much better. And theyve all pledged that preexisting conditions 100% taken care of. Wow. Well, you know its been hard, but weve done it incredibly. It could have been we have things called loopholes and the loopholes are terrible, like lottery where you give lotteries, they pick lotteries and they have people coming into our country. We have ended catch and release. We have right now 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our border saying that if they dont do that, were going to have to be very tough on Mexico and theyre doing it, because our soldiers arent allowed to be there for a lot of reasons and were very politically correct as a nation. Mexico, perhaps a slightly less politically correct. And we have the best numbers that weve had in many, many months. Weve had, I guess, its now 9 or 10 months where the numbers are way down and weve been keeping them down.  But we need the wall. And most importantly, the wall is way under construction. Were up to 129 miles already. Where we have a wall, by the way, nobodys coming through. Practically nobody. We will have by early next year almost 500 miles of wall. And once we have that wall, its going to stop drugs, its going to stop big percentages of everything coming in. Okay.  And were really, really doing the job and by the way, its very important, because I couldve done a much less expensive version. I could have done a much easier version, but a version that people would get over very easily. Youve seen the people that get caught on top. Its very high and very powerful. We are building exactly what the Border Patrol wanted. They wanted a very specific wall. You had to be able to see through it to the other side. You want to see where the people I thought before I got involved I said, I can build just a nice concrete plank wall, throw it up. That would be no good. It wouldnt work. We built the wall that everybody has been dreaming about, in terms of law enforcement for many years. So were up to 129 miles. Well be at 500 miles in a very short distance. Its really moving up quickly. Thank you. But I talk about it. I do. I very much, and Ill always talk about it, because to me its very important. Now, the good thing about the debt is were paying very little interest, almost nothing. This is a great interest climate. In fact, I want to refinance the debt, but I had to fix the military. The military was depleted. I had to fix the military. Its one thing to say, Gee, we did a good job on the debt, or gee, we did a good job on the budget. And you have people from other countries running up the White House lawn. Maybe they took over our country, but I did one hell of a job on the budget right?  Now I had to fix the military, $2.5 trillion dollars. We had to do other things. The country when I took it over was in very bad shape. Remember this, President Obama had he more than doubled. He put more debt on than all of the other presidents of the United States combined. Combined all the debt of every other president. And I took it over. We had $20 trillion worth of debt on the country and actually more than that. And we had a lot of commitments for other things and on top of it, its one thing, you take over something and you have debt, you have a building, you have debt, but the buildings fixed up. The country was a mess. We were in all these wars all over the place- Oh absolutely. But when the trade deals kick in, now again, we were disturbed by whats going on with the virus, but thats going to be fine and everybody, its going to be fine. But that was a disturbance. But I will say this, when these trade deals kick in and when all the economy is the best economy weve ever had. Its nothing compared to what its going to be when the trade deals kick in. Well, well be cutting, but were also going to have growth like youve never had before. Weve never had growth like were experiencing. We will be experiencing when they kick in China as an example, they didnt do anything with us. Theyre now spending $250 billion a year and thats only for phase one. Phase two is going to be even more so. Its $250 billion. I just made a deal with Japan with theyre paying 40 billion. They never gave us anything. All they do is sell us cars for no tax coming into the country. South Korea, Ive made a deal, and then I made the USMCA deal with Canada and Mexico replacing the worst deal, which was made by, by the way, which was made by Joe. Okay. I didnt want to say Sleepy Joe because I want to be respected. I want to respect him. He looks like hes going to be a candidate and I just say, How did that happen? So, but no, Joe Biden, in all fairness, Joe Biden made a deal. NAFTA, he approved it. He was pushing it. Its the worst trade deal ever made. Were terminating NAFTA. We have the USMCA. If you look at what happened between China and Mexico and Canada, what they were doing to this country, how they were taking advantage of us, they were Canada was judging us 300% tariffs. Now we havent really in good shape. I dont think its on the minds of too many Americans to be honest with you, but it certainly, it should be okay. And its good that its on your mind, because its big stuff and they do have a lot of power, a lot of nuclear power.  I dont get credit for this, and maybe I should, maybe I shouldnt. But when I became president, I was told by President Obama sitting in the Oval Office in our, probably our only meeting, essentially. That was enough for me. But I was told- I was at the funeral of President Bush, sat next to him and I said, Hello. And then I said, Goodbye. Thats about it. No, I didnt like the job he did. I didnt like the job that he and Biden did. I didnt like the position they put us in. I didnt like what he did to our military, our military. We didnt even have a military. Our military was so depleted. And I tell this story yet, I hate to tell it because its embarrassing, but right now we have more ammunition that weve ever had. Its all over the place.  We were having difficulty with a certain country. Remember Donald Trump is going to start a war right away. Well, here it is. Were almost four years out. Theres been no war and were respected again. But I was told by a general, Sir, please dont do that. Why? We have no ammunition. This is the condition we were left in. When you look at so many different problems that we will left, I mean and with countries but he said, The biggest problem we have is North Korea. Thats what youre alluding to and I have a good relationship with him. I said, Did you ever call him? The answer is yes, he did. But I will tell you, I dont think they admit that maybe they do, but called many times and Kim Jong Un did not want to talk to him and me he wanted to talk to. And we met in Singapore, we met in Vietnam and I also went to the border, the first person ever to walk over from et cetera, et cetera. And we had very good relationship, understanding. Lets see what happens.  But the pundents say, Isnt it terrible what hes done? Hes given I gave nothing. I gave nothing. The sanctions are wrong. They want to see if they can do something. But I havent given anything. If the other side got in, you would right now be in a big war with North Korea. Maybe it would be over by now, but you would right almost immediately you would have started. And if you remember the rhetoric at the beginning, that was very tough rhetoric, but that rhetoric got us to a place.  And the Olympics became successful because of me in South Korea because all of a sudden they called. They said, Wed like to be participate. They didnt sell any tickets cause nobody wanted to go to the Olympics. All of a sudden, North Korea calls up and says, We want to be a participant in the Olympics everybody fell off their seat. That was because of me. And by the way, the president of South Korea gives total credit for that. So it became successful. The bottom line is I have a very good relationship with them. I cannot guarantee anything. But for three years weve spent nothing. Were getting sanctions and were not in war with North Korea, which is not bad. Thank you. I did. Very powerful, yeah. So these are warriors. Weve been there for 20 years. Were really serving more as a law enforcement group than a military group. We could win that war very easily but I dont feel like killing millions of people in order to do it. We dont want to do that, you dont want to do that, nobody wants to do that. People are tired, even the biggest hawks are tired of being there. I had a very good conversation with him. There was a group that formed. And again, they have many tribes and they have many different Its hard for one Theres not like perfectly one control. I spoke to a certain man who is the leader, but the leader has not Its not the easiest leadership position. And the structure is Tribes all over the place. A tribe formed and a group formed that was going to attack certain soldiers, Afghan soldiers, and the military heard about it and the military went and they took them out. That was it. I believe they really want to make a deal. I think after 19, actually going very close to 20 years, theyre also tired of fighting, believe it or not, but they are warriors and they are fighters and thats what theyve done for a thousand years. Just ask the Soviet Union, which became Russia because of Afghanistan. Its a tough place. Well, I was right. I was so right. Well, Mattis said that, and I gave him more people for a short period of time and it didnt work out, and what we were doing is policing- In Afghanistan. As far as Syria, I did pull them out. I pulled them out. We were securing the border between Turkey and Syria. I said why are we doing that? Turkey is big, Syria is fine, let them fight their own battles. What are we doing with our soldiers? Getting people killed. Now, the one thing when I came in ISIS was all over Syria, all over Iraq and we dont want them coming to us, and it was a mess. You understand that very well. And I knocked out 100% of the territorial caliphate, 100%. We knocked the whole thing out . No, but just so you understand. So we knocked out the ISIS caliphate in vast amounts of the Middle East, and I did that fairly quickly when I came. Again, President Obama, it was all over the place. When I say were not doing the borders, we did leave soldiers. We left soldiers because I kept the oil. And I was always against Iraq, going into Iraq. I think it was one of the worst, maybe the worst decision ever made, but I used to say, once they were in there, keep the oil. They never kept the oil. We have an oil area near Syria and in Syria, we kept it. So the only soldiers I have over there, theyre guarding the oil. We kept the oil. So we kept the treasure. Thats okay . Well, theres a big question about the government of Afghanistan. Theres a big question about that whole situation in Afghanistan. Were getting along very well with everybody. We have to get our people back home. Its not fair. Were a police force over there. Were maintaining things. Eventually we have to leave. We dont want to stay there for another 20 years. We dont want to stay there for 100 years. We want our people to come back home. Hi, Lynette. Thank you. Oh, I like that. I like you too. Thank you. Thank you. Great honor. So I gave an answer before, success, but its really a little bit more than that, because weve had great success and there is a division, theres no question about it. Politicians have to be able to be civil. If theyre not, you have to fight back. You have to. Otherwise were not going to be. Theres a movement on, and I call them the radical left Democrats, and it really is the radical left, because we have plenty of Democrats that are terrific and they want to see lets get together, lets get things done.  Theres so many things we could do. Weve done a lot. Weve done more than any administration in three years in the history of our country for the first three years. And I say it all the time and the press doesnt even dispute me and they would do that. But we could do even so much more. We talked about a great question on the border and the border questions true, but we should get rid of the loopholes. You cant do that without Democrat votes. I really believe were going to win this next election, and when we do, the other sides going to say, Okay, thats it. Lets get along. I really believe that. But we have to win the election. Good question. Well, Im not thrilled. So yeah, its a great question because Ive always felt, I dont know from the time I was a young guy, I always felt the concept wasnt good and then youd read a lot of medical reports, its not good. Now especially theyre saying, by the way, if there was ever a time that you could convince people not to shake hands, this could be it, okay? This could be it. But you know what I did? I really love the people of this country. You cant be a politician and not shake hands. People come in and when I leave Ill be shaking hands with people. They want to shake your hand. They want to say hello. They want to hug you, they want to kiss you. I dont care. It doesnt mean You have to do that. If I went around, no, I dont shake hands, can you imagine? Im going to speak with a group of people and they like Trump and they come up, Sir, thank you very I dont shake hands. Its over. I dont care how nicely you say it. The bottom line is I shake anybodys hand now. Im proud of it. Theyre people that I love. Theyre people that I want to take care of. Now, the concept of shaking hands since this, youre hearing a lot of stuff about trying not to shake hands. It hasnt stopped me at all but it is a little bit of a problem. But I got over it. Well, I was kidding. I heard the other day youre not supposed to touch your face. So I went on camera and I said, Listen, I havent touched my face in weeks. Now, obviously Im kidding. I said, And I miss my face. And one of the networks said, He said he didnt touch his face, and they showed pictures of it there. So I dont know. These people. I loved my old life. The day before I announced I was running for president, that was the best period ever of my life. My company was the strongest it ever was, especially being in development and do real estate all over the world. I built a great company, but it was the strongest, because you have times when the markets go bad and then you have to fight and then the markets are good and youre doing great. It was the strongest period of my life. It was sort of the best period of my entire life. And then I announced I was going to run for president.  And the greatest day of your life, they say, is the day before you announce youre running for president. I dont know if anybodys ever heard that but they do say that about people. But in my case I won. I won. I saw as an example that they were using numbers and they were saying how much various people spent to become president. And Bloomberg spent like $550 million. It was in of all places, The New York Times, and this guy, Steyer, we call him impeachment Tom. How did that work out? Not too good. Tom Steyer spent $250 million. Another one I know, Steve Forbes, spent a lot. A lot of people spent a lot of money and I was in the middle.  In fact, this is your own money. I spent $70 million. And they said lost, lost, lost, lost, lost. Donald Trump became president of the United States, lost, lost, and I said, Isnt that cool? Isnt that cool? So, I love it. You know why I love it? Because we are doing more than anybody can imagine. Even Right to Try. For years they wanted to have Right to Try where we can use our medicines if somebody is terminally ill. So many things were doing- Well, yeah, I cant walk down the street now, before I could. I was well known and we had a very successful business and even my show turned out to be a success. I had many top best sellers of things- But I could walk down the street and I could actually walk into a store. And it was fine. It was not like nobody knew me, but now, today if I ever suggested that to Secret Service, I think Im going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue and lets go shopping. So its a lot different. So I do miss that. I miss that free life. This is not a free life. But I love what were doing because were accomplishing more than anybodys ever. Im viewing it as were saving this country. This country was going wrong. Well, I dont want to say because I have a lot of close friends, I really do. Im putting everybody in this fight. I get along great with our vice president. I keep hearing Im replacing him. Hes doing a phenomenal job. Hes a great guy and a loyal guy and he works so hard. Every day I read, hes going to put this one, hes going to put that one, hes going to put If I did that would be a great act of disloyalty because hes been great. I speak to him a lot, but I speak to all of the senators a lot, I speak to all of the congressmen a lot. We have great people in Washington. And you have great Democrats too. I speak to Democrats also, believe it or not, but we have great, great people in Washington, very smart people in Washington and its going to come together. Its going to come together, and its going to be sooner than you think. Thank you very much."
" In our country, probably the biggest companies in the world. I cant imagine being much bigger, but these are the great health insurance companies and I think tremendous progress is being made. Theyre willing to do things for the people and their customers and probably in a true sense beyond their customers that normally I dont think theyd be doing. I want to thank them and theyll ask Vice President Pence maybe to give us a little update to see where we are. Thats true, very true. We are working very closely with the cruise line industry and very, very closely. Theyre taking very strong steps in terms of people going on and going off, but theyre spending a lot of money and they are working very hard and were going to be helping that industry. Likewise, with the airline industry, theyre taking very, very strong steps for people coming into our country, even getting off the planes, so we are working very closely with them. Were helping them. Theyre two great industries and well be helping them through this patch. So far, I think its been going very well. You know all about the big ship that came in yesterday and thats going along incredibly well. Working with the state of California successfully, very successfully. Were also with Canada and with UK, so the UK is taking their people, their citizens back and Canada is about 600 people. Theyre coming back and theyre being met and brought to planes and being brought up in a very, very dignified fashion back into Canada. We appreciate all the help weve had in that and thats working out very well. With that, I might just ask a couple of folks if youd like to make a statement on behalf of the industry perhaps. Would you like to make a statement on behalf of your industry? Great job youre doing. Thank you very much. Anybody else? Would anybody else like to make a statement? Even the ones over here, youre going to turn your head. Look at those cameras. Very good. Thank you very much. Thats great. Thank you. Thank you all. Please. A lot of people in there are taking advantage of that really strong advantage. Who else would you suggest? Dave, please. Right, thank you. Governor, . Nice to see you, by the way. Right. . Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody."
"Well, thank you very much. And, we are having a meeting, a very important meeting with the, I would say, the greatest bankers in the world, the most important banks in the world, financial centers. And, having a good discussion. Were discussing the economy. Were discussing how it relates to jobs and all of the things that are happening right now with the virus that weve become so familiar with. Ill be making some decisions. Ive already made some decisions, actually, today. But, Ill be making some, some other ones that are very important.  And, I thought Id let the press into here some of the wisdom from the folks in the room and maybe Brian, Ill start with you. And, Brians the chairman and you said the man at Bank of America. Highly respected. Everybody in this room is at the highest level, highly respected.  Brian, please. Thank you, Brian, very much. Well, thank you very much, Michael. Thats good. And, I think prior to the coronavirus it was just all go. The numbers were fantastic. And, we dont even know what the numbers are now. Well have to see. The numbers from a week ago were great. And, from two days ago were great. But, now, were hitting a patch and were going to have to do something with respect to getting rid of this virus as quickly as possible and as safely as possible.  Our number one priority is the health of the people of our country. And, so, well be making, most likely, a statement Ill be making a statement later on tonight as to what Ive decided to do and what our country will be doing.  Charlie, please. Thats great. Im glad you saying that. Thats great. Because, maybe some of that, frankly, more so than youve been used to for the last three years. Right?  It could happen. David. Thats right. Youll do it very well. And, well be doing a lot of additional work with small business, as you know. Were going to be betting many billions of dollars and were going to be making lots of small business loans. The banks are, too. So, well be, do you have anything to say, doctor? Right. Yesterdays, as you know, we met with the insurance companies, the top companies, the top people in the top companies, like yourselves. And, they were very generous. You know what they did with copays and everything else. Theyre going all out. So, we appreciated that very much. Steve. Anything to say? Steve. Sorry, Steve. Yeah. Theyve made very good progress, the C-D-C and different places that are dealing with the problem. Theyve made really tremendous, tremendous strides. Well be announcing that, also. Thank you. Anybody else have anything to say? Ken? Anybody? Anybody? Thank you. Right. Thats true. Great job youve done, too. Please. And, how is Jamie doing? All right, say hello to him. All right? I hear hes doing fine. Thats great. I think therell be a pent up demand when this is gone. I think that everything that, maybe, where its stamped down now, people are leaving their homes. I think youre going to see a tremendous pent up demand. Which, hopefully, wont be in the too distant future. Please. Great, Richard. Thank you. Thank you, very much. Anybody else? Anybody? Please. Thank you. All right. Right. Thats great. Thank you, very much. And, thank you all. Yes, please. Right. Thank you, very much. Thank you, very much.  So, Ill be making a statement tonight probably at eight oclock. And, well be starting some additional solutions. We made a great decision on China and Asia. And, theyre healing and theyre healing at a pretty good rate. And, happy about that. And, we could start to think about getting back involved in that part of the world. And, as you know, we have a another part of the world, Europe, thats in very tough shape. Its having a hard time right now with the virus.  And, well be making various decisions. Youll be hearing about them at approximately eight oclock tonight. Steve. Well, Ill be letting you know that a little bit later. Well be talking about that later. All those things. Were making a decision on. I think theyre going to be great. I think the folks around this table are the ones that finance that. And, they understand and theyre great companies. But, were having to fix a problem that four weeks ago nobody ever thought would be a problem. Nobody. You read about them. You read about him from 1917 and you read about him from lots of other times. But, nobody thought that we would be seeing. We were just discussing that this came out of nowhere.  And, actually, came out of China, which is the way it works. But, we are going to get the problem solved and the country is so strong. The institutions are so strong. You know, in the past you had problems with institutions. These are powerful institutions. Theyre built up, theyre ready to go. And, I know theyll be helping their customers during this short term period. We think its going to be a short term period. I dont mind that. I mean, its actually a very good question. I was going to ask it myself. If youve been hearing about the various forms, Brian, of stimulus. Different. Very different forms of stimulus. What would you say would be good appropriate under these circumstances? Thats true. If we get rid of the problem quickly, everything solves itself. We dont need stimulus. So, thatd be good. But, we are talking about various forms of stimulus. What would you think, Michael? Right. All right. Thank you, very much. Ken, go ahead. Right. I agree with that 100%. Anybody? Anybody? I think so. I think the payroll tax would be great. Democrats are not in favor of it. Ive tried to figure out why. Because, it would be something that would be very good for the citizens, for the people. And, even longer term, for the country. So, thats a tax that people have long been talking about either cutting or getting rid of entirely. So, Steve, what do you have? Thank you, very much. Thats C-N-N. Fake news. Go ahead. Thank you, very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, very much. Eight oclock tonight. Eight oclock tonight. Well be another five, very shortly. But, around here. Within 50 feet. Both. Thank you."
"Well, thank you very much. And, we are having a meeting, a very important meeting with the, I would say, the greatest bankers in the world, the most important banks in the world, financial centers. And, having a good discussion. Were discussing the economy. Were discussing how it relates to jobs and all of the things that are happening right now with the virus that weve become so familiar with. Ill be making some decisions. Ive already made some decisions, actually, today. But, Ill be making some, some other ones that are very important.  And, I thought Id let the press into here some of the wisdom from the folks in the room and maybe Brian, Ill start with you. And, Brians the chairman and you said the man at Bank of America. Highly respected. Everybody in this room is at the highest level, highly respected.  Brian, please. Thank you, Brian, very much. Well, thank you very much, Michael. Thats good. And, I think prior to the coronavirus it was just all go. The numbers were fantastic. And, we dont even know what the numbers are now. Well have to see. The numbers from a week ago were great. And, from two days ago were great. But, now, were hitting a patch and were going to have to do something with respect to getting rid of this virus as quickly as possible and as safely as possible.  Our number one priority is the health of the people of our country. And, so, well be making, most likely, a statement Ill be making a statement later on tonight as to what Ive decided to do and what our country will be doing.  Charlie, please. Thats great. Im glad you saying that. Thats great. Because, maybe some of that, frankly, more so than youve been used to for the last three years. Right?  It could happen. David. Thats right. Youll do it very well. And, well be doing a lot of additional work with small business, as you know. Were going to be betting many billions of dollars and were going to be making lots of small business loans. The banks are, too. So, well be, do you have anything to say, doctor? Right. Yesterdays, as you know, we met with the insurance companies, the top companies, the top people in the top companies, like yourselves. And, they were very generous. You know what they did with copays and everything else. Theyre going all out. So, we appreciated that very much. Steve. Anything to say? Steve. Sorry, Steve. Yeah. Theyve made very good progress, the C-D-C and different places that are dealing with the problem. Theyve made really tremendous, tremendous strides. Well be announcing that, also. Thank you. Anybody else have anything to say? Ken? Anybody? Anybody? Thank you. Right. Thats true. Great job youve done, too. Please. And, how is Jamie doing? All right, say hello to him. All right? I hear hes doing fine. Thats great. I think therell be a pent up demand when this is gone. I think that everything that, maybe, where its stamped down now, people are leaving their homes. I think youre going to see a tremendous pent up demand. Which, hopefully, wont be in the too distant future. Please. Great, Richard. Thank you. Thank you, very much. Anybody else? Anybody? Please. Thank you. All right. Right. Thats great. Thank you, very much. And, thank you all. Yes, please. Right. Thank you, very much. Thank you, very much.  So, Ill be making a statement tonight probably at eight oclock. And, well be starting some additional solutions. We made a great decision on China and Asia. And, theyre healing and theyre healing at a pretty good rate. And, happy about that. And, we could start to think about getting back involved in that part of the world. And, as you know, we have a another part of the world, Europe, thats in very tough shape. Its having a hard time right now with the virus.  And, well be making various decisions. Youll be hearing about them at approximately eight oclock tonight. Steve. Well, Ill be letting you know that a little bit later. Well be talking about that later. All those things. Were making a decision on. I think theyre going to be great. I think the folks around this table are the ones that finance that. And, they understand and theyre great companies. But, were having to fix a problem that four weeks ago nobody ever thought would be a problem. Nobody. You read about them. You read about him from 1917 and you read about him from lots of other times. But, nobody thought that we would be seeing. We were just discussing that this came out of nowhere.  And, actually, came out of China, which is the way it works. But, we are going to get the problem solved and the country is so strong. The institutions are so strong. You know, in the past you had problems with institutions. These are powerful institutions. Theyre built up, theyre ready to go. And, I know theyll be helping their customers during this short term period. We think its going to be a short term period. I dont mind that. I mean, its actually a very good question. I was going to ask it myself. If youve been hearing about the various forms, Brian, of stimulus. Different. Very different forms of stimulus. What would you say would be good appropriate under these circumstances? Thats true. If we get rid of the problem quickly, everything solves itself. We dont need stimulus. So, thatd be good. But, we are talking about various forms of stimulus. What would you think, Michael? Right. All right. Thank you, very much. Ken, go ahead. Right. I agree with that 100%. Anybody? Anybody? I think so. I think the payroll tax would be great. Democrats are not in favor of it. Ive tried to figure out why. Because, it would be something that would be very good for the citizens, for the people. And, even longer term, for the country. So, thats a tax that people have long been talking about either cutting or getting rid of entirely. So, Steve, what do you have? Thank you, very much. Thats C-N-N. Fake news. Go ahead. Thank you, very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, very much. Eight oclock tonight. Eight oclock tonight. Well be another five, very shortly. But, around here. Within 50 feet. Both. Thank you."
"To unleash the full power of the federal government in this effort today, I am officially declaring a National Emergency. Two very big words. The action I am taking will open up access to up to 50 billion dollars of very important and a large amount of money for states and territories and localities in our shared fight against this disease.  In furtherance of the order, Im urging every state to set up emergency operation centers effective immediately. Youre going to be hearing from some of the largest companies and greatest retailers and medical companies in the world. Theyre standing right behind me and the side of me. Im also asking every hospital in this country to activate its emergency preparedness plan so that they can meet the needs of Americans everywhere. The hospitals are very engaged. New York and various other places are also various engaged. I just spoke with governor Cuomo. We had a very good conversation and were working very strongly with the many states including New York.  The urgency orders Im issuing today will also confer broad new authority to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The Secretary of HHS will be able to immediately wave revisions of applicable laws and regulations to give doctors, hospital all hospitals and healthcare providers, maximum flexibility to respond to the virus and care for patients. This includes the following critical authorities, the ability to waive laws to enable telehealth, a fairly new and incredible thing thats happened in the not so distant past. I tell you what theyve done with telehealth has incredible. It gives remote doctors visits and hospital check-ins the power to waive certain federal license requirements so that doctors from other states can provide services in states with the greatest need.  Number two, the ability to waive requirements that critical access hospitals limit the number of beds to 25 and the length of stay to 96 hours. The ability to waive the requirements of a three day hospital stay prior to admission to a nursing home; big thing. The authority to waive rules to hinder hospitals ability to bring additional physicians on board or obtain needed office space. They can do as they want. They can do what they have to do. They know what they have to do. Now they dont have any problem getting it done.  The authority to waive rules that severely restrict where hospitals can care for patients within the hospital itself. Ensuring that the emergency capacity can be quickly established. Well remove or eliminate every obstacle necessary to deliver our people the care that they need and that theyre entitled to. No resource will be spared. Nothing whatsoever. 10 days ago, I brought together the CEOs of commercial labs at the White House and directed them to immediately begin working on the solution to dramatically increase the availability of tests.  Other countries have called us and worked with us and theyre doing similar things or will be doing similar things as a result of that action. Today we are announcing a new partnership with private sector to vastly increase and accelerate our capacity to test for the Coronavirus. We want to make sure that those who need a test can get a test very safely, quickly and conveniently but we dont want people to take a test if we feel that they shouldnt be doing it and we dont want everyone running out and taking; only if you have certain symptoms.  Using federal emergency authorities, the FDA approved a new test for the virus. We did this within hours after receiving the application from Roche, a process that would normally take weeks. We therefore expect up to a half a million additional tests will be available early next week. Well be announcing locations probably on Sunday night. I want to thank Roche, great company for their incredible work. Id also like to thank Thermo Fisher. The FDAs goal is to hopefully authorize your application within 24 hours. Itll go very quickly. Its going very quickly. Which will bring additionally 1.4 million tests on board next week and five million within a month. I doubt well need anywhere near that.  At the same time, weve been in discussions with pharmacies and retailers to make drive-through tests available in the critical locations identified by public health professionals. The goal is for individuals to be able to drive up and be swabbed without having to leave your car. I want to thank Google. Google is helping to develop a website. Its going to be very quickly done, unlike websites of the past, to determine whether a test is warranted and to facilitate testing at a nearby convenient location. And we have many, many locations behind us, by the way. We cover this country and large parts of the world, by the way. Were not going to be talking about the world right now. But we cover very, very strongly our country.  Stores in virtually every location. Google has 1,700 engineers working on this right now. Theyve made tremendous progress. Our overriding goal is to stop the spread of the virus and to help all Americans who have been impacted by this. Again, we dont want everybody taking this test. Its totally unnecessary. And this will pass. This will pass through and were going to be even stronger for it. Weve learned a lot, a tremendous amount has been learned. I want to thank Deborah Birx and I want to ask her maybe to come up and say a few words as to whats happening. Dr. Birx is a highly respected person. Ive gotten to know her very well over the last six days and what weve done is we built something that was very old, very old fashioned, somewhat obsolete, certainly obsolete when it comes to the kind of numbers that were talking about. Dr. Birx, please. Thank you, Deborah. Thank you very much. . Id like to maybe have, Tony, do you want to come up? Youve become a  I think everybody out here knows you pretty well, but Tony has been doing a tremendous job working long, long hours and youve seen a lot happen, but this has been  Its been a great experience and working with you has been terrific. Tony, please. Thank you very much, Tony. If I could, some of these folks, we know theyre celebrities in their own right. Theyre the biggest business people, the greatest retailers anywhere in the world, and one of them is Doug McMillon from Walmart and Id like to have Doug, if you would say a few words wherever you may be.  Doug, please. Thank you very much, Doug. Appreciate it very much. Ill just stay right over here, and Richard, if you could come up please. Richard, please. Walgreens. Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you very much. Brian Cornell, Target. Thank you, Brian. Thank you. Please. Thank you very much. Great job. Is Tom here? Tom Polen. Tom? Tom Polen, please. Thank you very much, Tom. Great job youve done. , Quest Diagnostics. Please. Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. And Matt Sause, please, of Roche. Matt. Thank you, Matt. And you can do it. You can do it. Youre a great company. David Pierre of Signify. Signify Health, please. Excellent. Thank you very much. And well be changing a lot of the rules, regulations for future should this happen in the future, which we hope it never does, but it will, I guess, somewhere out there. We had some bad ones over the years and I guess thatll continue to an extent, but we hope it never happens. But we are going to be changing a lot of the old rules and specifications and regulations. Adam Schechter, whos really been of tremendous help. LabCorp, please. Adam. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Thomas Moriarty, CVS. We all know CVS. Thank you. Thank you, Thomas. Thank you very much. Thanks. Great job. And Bruce Greenstein, LHC Group. Tremendously talented people. Thank you very much. Thanks very much. . Okay. I like that. Thats good. Were also announcing the following emergency executive actions today. To help our students and their families, Ive waived interest in all student loans held by the federal government agencies and that will be until further notice. Thats a big thing for a lot of students that are left in the middle right now. Many of those schools have been closed. Based on the price of oil, Ive also instructed the Secretary of Energy to purchase, at a very good price, large quantities of crude oil for storage in the US, strategic reserve.  Were going to fill it right up to the top, saving the American taxpayer billions and billions of dollars, helping our oil industry and making us even further toward that wonderful goal which weve achieved, which nobody thought was possible of energy independence. It puts us in a position thats very strong and were buying it at the right price. And thats something that would have not even been possible a week ago. The price of oil went down quite a bit, so were going to fill it up. Its a good time to fill it up. Id like to ask Mike Pence to say a few words please. VP. Thank you. Seema? Wheres Seema? Id like you to maybe take that a step further please on nursing homes. Thanks. Thank you very much. As I said in my address to the nation the other night, all Americans have a role to play in defeating this virus. Our most effective weapon right now is to limit the damage to our people and our country and slow the spread of the virus itself. The choice we make-   spread of the virus itself. The choice we make, the precautions we put into place, are critical to overcoming the virus, reducing its spread and shortening the duration of the pandemic which is what it is. The CDC has published guidelines on the coronavirus.gov to enable Its coronavirus.gov. Its very heavily used right now, I will say, to enable every American to respond to this epidemic and to protect themselves, their families and their communities. While the risks to young and healthy Americans remains very low, weve learned a lot about this over the last two weeks. Anyone can be a carrier for the virus and risk transmission to older Americans and those with underlying health conditions. And those who are most at risk, they have not done very well. Older Americans, especially if they have a health problem, they have not done well.  We must take all precautions and be responsible for the actions that we take, and that we see other people take. We want to prevent the spread and transmission of the disease. Its incredible whats happening with the sporting world, where so many of the great sports that weve gotten so used to at this time of the year, theyre not going to be meeting. Theyve done a great service, actually. But that would be another way that problems could be caused.  But this is why I outlined on Wednesday night, my administrations The fact that weve issued a requirement suspending all medically unnecessary visits to various places. But in particular, nursing homes. We should all be working off the same playbook when it comes to protecting Americans. We have to. We need to be consistent in adopting measures to limit the spread of the virus. The virus is the same whether its spreading in cities, towns, or rural communities. The tools and tactics for attacking it are similar, no matter where you go. No matter where you go, you have some hotspots throughout the world right now that people would have never thought possible, and theyre being very seriously affected.  Key among these efforts, are breaking chains of transmission between people. These measures have been adopted by many companies, universities and schools. We want to protect the safety and the health of their employees and their students. I encourage everyone to follow the guidelines weve issued by CDC, and these common sense measures. A lot of it is common sense. For the areas where the virus is spreading, the CDC is advising communities to postpone large gatherings, postpone assemblies, social functions and sporting events, stagger recess and lunch for schools that arent canceled, limit in-person meetings, increase scheduled cleanings, and cancel work-sponsored travel, among numerous other steps that can be taken.  Americans are the strongest and most resilient people on Earth. And in the coming weeks, we will all have to make changes and sacrifices. But these short term sacrifices will produce long term gain. Again, Ive said were learning a lot for the future and future problems like this, or worse. Or worse, it could get worse. The next eight weeks are critical. We can learn, and we will turn a corner on this virus. Some of the doctors say it will wash through and will flow through, in interesting terms, very accurate. I think youre going to find in a number of weeks, its going to be a very accurate term.  In times of hardship. The true character of America always shines through. We live in the company of the greatest heroes and the most inspiring citizens anywhere in the world. We want to take care of our people. We want to draw on the strength of our history, draw on the strength of our people. Then we will get through this. All together, we will just get through it. So much progress has already been made. And frankly, the numbers because the steps that have been taken, are at a level that a lot of people are surprised especially when you compare them with other places with far smaller populations.  The spirit and the will of our nation is unbreakable. We will defeat this threat. When America is tested, America rises to the occasion. And to those families and citizens who are worried and concerned for themselves and their loved ones, I want you to know that your federal government will unleash every authority, resource and tool at its disposal, to safeguard the lives and health of our people. So were with you every step of the way. No nation is more prepared or more equipped to face down this crisis.  As you know, we are rated number one in the world. Were also helping other nations. Many of the nations, were helping them a lot. And they are doing okay in some cases. In some cases, they are not doing well at all. But were working with a lot of groups of people and a lot of other nations. With faith and heart and hope and love and determination, we will succeed. We will prevail. We will be very, very successful. And well learn for the future. Thank you all very much. If you have any questions, we can take some. Go ahead, John, please. And if youd like to ask some of the folks up here, it would be fine. Please. Well, we just dont think theyre giving enough. We dont think the Democrats are giving enough. Were negotiating. We thought we had something. But all of a sudden, they didnt agree to certain things that they agreed to. So we could have something, but we dont think theyre giving enough. Theyre not doing whats right for the country. Go ahead, please. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thats true. We are looking at many different things, as you know. Some of them, theyve been written about very widely. But were going to be releasing a paper in about two hours stating quite a few other steps, very important ones. Please, go ahead. Please, go ahead. No. We have a no symptoms, whatsoever. We had a great meeting with the President of Brazil, Bolsonaro. Great guy, a very tremendous Hes doing a fantastic job for Brazil. As you know, he tested negative. Meaning, nothing wrong this morning, and we got that word too. Because we did have dinner with him. We were sitting next to each other for a long period of time. Were talking about it, country to country. But we did discuss if he had a problem. It was reported that he may have it, and he doesnt, fortunately. Yeah. Yeah. No, I dont take responsibility at all because we were given a set of circumstances, and we were given rules, regulations and specifications from a different time. It wasnt meant for this kind of an event with the kind of numbers that were talking about. And what weve done is, redesigned it very quickly with the help of the people behind me. Were now in very, very strong shape. I think well be announcing, as I said, Sunday night. This will start very quickly. Well have the ability to do in the millions over a very, very quick period of time. So, no.  What we have done and we are going to be leaving a very indelible print for the future in case something like this happens again. But it was a And thats not the fault of anybody. Frankly, the old system worked very well for smaller numbers, much smaller numbers, but not for these kinds of numbers. Tony, maybe youd like to say something. And interestingly, if you go back Please. If you go back to the swine flu, it was nothing like this. They didnt do testing like this. And actually, they lost approximately 14,000 people. And they didnt do the testing. They started thinking about testing when it was far too late. What weve done and one of the reasons I think people are respecting what weve done, weve done it very early. Weve gotten it very early, and weve also kept a lot of people out. Yes. Please, go ahead. Well, ask them how they did with the swine flu. It was a disaster. Next, please. Next, please. They had a very big failure with swine flu, a very big failure. Well, that was recommended to me by a group of professionals. We are looking at it based on the new numbers that are coming out, and we may have to include them in the list of countries that we will you could say ban or whatever it is, during this period of time. But yeah, their numbers have gone up fairly precipitously over the last 24 hours, so we may be adding that. And we may be adding a couple of others. And we may frankly, start thinking about taking some off. Go ahead. True. I think it has been helpful. We have been working very much with China. Ive spoken, as you know, with President Xi. They went through hell. Their numbers are starting to look very good. Theyre really looking very good. Were very happy about that. We are sharing data, yes. In fact, were sharing quite a bit of data, including the fact that some of our pharmaceutical companies are working over there right now with large groups of people. Yeah. Go ahead, please. Yes, sir. So we didnt discuss the border. Weve had a very good relationship. Just about finished with the USMCA, as you know. He called. Actually, he called me to tell me that. I think that was the primary reason for the call. At the time, his wife had not been diagnosed. Shes a lovely lady, wonderful lady, great lady. Since then, Ive heard, read, that the result was that she has it. I was a little surprised. I think he was surprised also. We did discuss it prior, too. Shes going to be fine. But he thought that she would not most likely have the virus. Unfortunately, she does. But we didnt discuss the border yesterday, no. Go ahead, please. If you have any questions for these great geniuses up here, you should, even a business question related to what were talking about. Well, I dont know that I had exposure, but I dont have any of the symptoms. We do have a White House doctor. I should say, many White House doctors, frankly. I asked them that same question, and they said, You dont have any symptoms whatsoever. We dont want people without symptoms to go and do the test. The test is not insignificant. As far as the cruise line business, were with them all the way. Its a great business. Its a great U.S. business, frankly. I know how important they are to the country. That includes airlines. But the cruise line business obviously, was hit very hard.  We had a tremendous success out in Oakland, where moved Vice President Pence did a fantastic job with that. We worked with U.K., we worked with Canada. They took their people back in. Canadas approximately 600 people. U.K. likewise, took a large number of people back to the United Kingdom. We have people quarantined. It was a big operation, and it worked out really You dont hear about it anymore. It worked out really well. Mike, you may even want to say something about that, because that was really done properly. Go ahead, please. I might add that we are in the process and in some cases have already done it, ordered a large number of respirators just in case. We hope we dont need them, but weve ordered a large number. Yeah. Go ahead, please. Well, some were making progress. Some are not, as you know. But some are making progress. And as they make progress, as they get down to the number that we all think is right, that they know is right, we know is right, well be opening it up. Some are really moving along rapidly. We hope to be able to open things up as quickly as possible. Go ahead, please. Go ahead. Right, better. Better. Not 100%, but 90%. Go ahead. Okay. OAN please. OAN. No. We have our deal with China. Theyre going to be buying $250 billion worth of goods and 50 billion from our farmers, and its a great deal for our country. Its about time somebody did that and, frankly, phase two, well start negotiating. I did read one article, but I dont think that article was representative, certainly not in my conversations with President Xi, and they know where it came from. We all know where it came from. Yes. I just think its a nasty question, because what weve done is  and Tony had said numerous times that weve saved thousands of lives because of the quick closing. When you say me, I didnt do it. We have a group of people I could ask, perhaps in my administration, but I could perhaps ask Tony about that, because I dont know anything about it. You say we did that. I dont know anything about it. . Its the administration. Perhaps they do that. People let people go. You used to be with a different newspaper than you are now. Things like that happen. Okay, please go ahead.  Were doing a great job. Let me tell you, these professionals behind me and these great, incredible doctors and business people, the best in the world. I can say that whether its retailers or labs or anything you want to say, these are the best in the world. Were doing a great job. We have 40 people right now. 40. Compare that with other countries that have many, many times that amount. One of the reasons we have 40 and others have  and again, that numbers going up, just so you understand, and a number of cases which are very small, relatively speaking, its going up, but weve done a great job because we acted quickly, we acted early, and theres nothing we could have done that was better than closing our borders to highly infected areas.  Please, go ahead. I hope not long, but its there now and it gives tremendous powers for things that we need. Tremendous power actually, and the Stafford Act and various other things that were involved with and have studied and memorized in so many different ways and forms. It gives the kind of power that we need to get rid of this virus, and were going to do it very quickly, and I hope we wont need it very long, but whatever it takes. Were in touch with Italy, and its a country that we love. We have millions and millions of people originally from Italy, and were working with them. Theyre in, probably relatively speaking, the toughest position of all. Were in touch with everybody. When I say everybody, were in touch with many of the countries that you know about that youre writing about, and theyre calling us asking for advice. Theyre asking for the advice of the people behind me. Italys got a tough situation, but they have really clamped down, and I think theyre going to see some very good results. Its tough what they did. They really took their medicine, but theyre going to see some much better results.  Yeah, Jeff. Well, Ill tell you. First of all, Im not coming back from someplace. There was somebody that they say has it. I have no idea who he is, but I take pictures and it lasts for literally seconds. I dont know the gentleman that were talking about. I have no idea who he is. I havent seen the picture. Its said theres a picture of somebody, but I take sometimes hundreds of pictures a day, and that night I was taking hundreds of pictures, so I just dont know. Now, I did sit with the President for probably two hours, but hes tested negative, so thats good. Please, go. Go ahead, please.  I would say if you stay home, its not bad. Its not bad. Now, there are certain parts of the country that essentially have zero problem. Washingtons been very tough, in particular, nursing home, but the state of Washingtons been very tough. When you talk about the 40 deaths, thats been a big percentage of the deaths, as you know very well, and they all came from a certain area, unfortunately.  Please, go ahead. Go ahead. Okay. As we discussed before, in light of the results, were going to be looking at it and I know the task force is looking at it very strongly. Vice President, everybody. It was looking good, but the results have been building up pretty rapidly, so well be taking another look at that. Yes, absolutely.  Go ahead, please. I think they have to listen to their doctors, and I think they shouldnt be jumping to get the tests unless its necessary, but I think they have to listen to their doctors. I havent seen the picture. Somebody said theres a picture of somebody taking a picture with me, but I havent seen it, but I can tell you- I didnt say I wasnt going to be tested. Most likely, yeah. Most likely. Not for that reason, but because I think I will do it anyway. Fairly soon. Were working on that. Were working out a schedule. You, go ahead please. Go ahead. Yeah. Thats been true for a while, but Ill let Mike  Why dont you answer that, Mike? I think you have to remember though, were working very closely with states and to those you have a smaller form and more targeted form of government going in and doing it, like in New York where the relationship is very good. Like Gavin Newsom, where he made some very complimentary  thats California. He made some really complementary comments the other day about how were working together. We worked on the ship together, but we worked on a lot of other things together having to do with this, and really, the relationship that we have, I cant think of a bad relationship. Were helping them, were funding them, in some cases, depending on what it is youre talking about, and were all working together very closely. So weve done really, I think, a tremendous job of teamwork with the different states.  All right, one or two more, and if you have questions for these folks  Does anybody have a question for the folks up here? Who has a question up here? You have? Okay, go ahead. If you have a question, go ahead. I thought. I knew you would. I was waiting for that. Go ahead. Ask them first please. Well, I didnt suggest that it could happen, but I could tell you its an industry that was very badly impacted by whats going on with the virus. Its a great industry, its a very important industry, and we will be helping them and we will be helping the airline industry if we have to, assuming we have to. So far people havent been asking, but if they should be asking, we want to make sure our airlines are very strong, and then in one day all of a sudden wasnt looking so good. Interestingly, I was talking to Doug, and the numbers theyre doing from the retailing standpoint I guess because of this, your business is like the opposite. All of you have been selling a lot of stuff. Do you want to answer the question as to the hand sanitizers? Please. Okay, one more. Go ahead. Go ahead. No, over you. Behind you. Behind you. Thats true. Thank you. On small businesses, the Small Business Administration is now stacked with money to help them, and were going to make the money readily available if they need it, small businesses. We had a great time in India. It was an incredible two days, and hes a great friend of mine and hes a friend of his people, because he was greeted incredibly warmly, as was I in that stadium. It was an incredible event, and I loved being with him, so just to say hello to him.  We talked about everything. Weve talked about far more than just borders, and as far as President, he, likewise, hes a friend of mine. I believe that we are dealing in good faith, that we just worked, as you know and as I just said. We just worked an incredible deal, big deal, one of the biggest deals ever made of any kind. Big, even by the standards of some of the people here, the deal with China, but I think that they want to get to the bottom of things also.  Were working, our drug companies, our pharmaceutical companies, are working very closely with China and with India, as you know, and with all over the world, and theyre all over the world. These are magnificent companies that are very, very knowledgeable and were very lucky to have them, because I think youre going to come up with, whether its therapeutic or whether its just help. Helping getting better, and then ultimately a vaccine, which takes a little bit longer because of the test periods and couple of other reasons. Youre going to have it very quickly because of the great knowledge. Theyll have it very quickly. Theyve made a tremendous amount of progress.  Thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We just completed a very good meeting of the Coronavirus Task Force and theyre really doing a great job, our professionals. The results are very, very good and when you compare this to whats happening around the world, were very proud of our people. Theres been a tremendous amount of coordination with states, with cities, and theyre a little smaller form of government and they have things going well, theyre coordinating with us. And certain in particular, I think California has been terrific. The relationship, New York has been really good. Weve had some really good relationships in terms of, especially the hotspots and were focused on those hotspots. Some areas we dont have no problem whatsoever and we hope to keep it that way.  Before I turned this over to our great Vice President to provide an update, I just want to express my appreciation for the hard work done by the people behind me and the people back in the various offices, including the fact that I just left the Oval Office, so we have some people there that are probably watching this or theyre just working. Were using the full power of the federal government to defeat the virus and thats what weve been doing. Last week we secured an initial 8.3 billion from Congress for the coronavirus and that was quickly done and very efficiently done. I want to thank all members of Congress. Yesterday I declared a national emergency, which was a very big deal because it opened up avenues that we would never be able to open up without it and it will make more than $50 billion available to us immediately and disaster relief funds and thats available for states, territories and local governments, so that was really good.  We also reached an agreement yesterday on a new legislative package that will provide strong support for American families and communities in dealing with the coronavirus, so it was done very, very bipartisan. It was very nice to see it, probably the cooperation. I want to thank Secretary of Treasury, Steve Mnuchin, who did a fantastic job and worked with Nancy Pelosi and their representatives and it was really great, it worked out very well. And a lot of people are benefiting by a lot of provisions in the bill, which theyre going to be discussing with you today and the tremendous provisions. So thats something that we should talk about. I was honored to see that the stock market, you were mostly there with us, set a record in a short period of time, over a 45 minute period that we had the press conference yesterday in the Rose Garden. That was a record, all time record. I think we should do one of them every day perhaps. How about five times a day? Well do one five times a day.  But that was something to watch and I had no idea. We walked back. I said, So how did that work out? They said, Sir, you just set a new record and the history of the stock market. So that was pretty good. And those great companies that were there, they couldnt have been too unhappy either when you think about it, because theyre all very big publicly listed companies, so they did a good job. And more importantly, theyre going to do a good job. When you look at a CVS and Walmart and all of the tremendous people that were there yesterday, these are the biggest and the best and theyre opening up their facilities, they are opening up. Theyre right now, literally working right now, on doing something thats never been done before to the extent that were doing it and so were very proud of them.  Also, the bill provides for free coronavirus testing for all Americans who should be tested. So people that are getting tested are getting this free, they dont have to pay. A lot of people said, Gee, its a lot of money. And it is, its a pretty complex test actually, and it costs money and its being provided free, so people dont have to worry about that. It also provides paid sick and family medical leave for those who need it, including for those who have the virus, for caregivers and those looking after children affected by school closures. So thats all taken care of also. And well continue all of these different actions, we have other things planned. Were going to also be working with companies that are affected financially. Our country is in the best financial shape, so different then in the past, over the years if you look at some of the real big crises we had. It was financial problems and different things.  We now are in very, very strong financial shape with all of the trade and all of the other things that weve been doing. Its been pretty amazing. We hope the Federal Reserve will finally get on board and do what they should do because were doing things that they should be doing frankly. And we can all do them together, but they should be much more proactive. Other boards and another countries and people representing those countries are taking a much more aggressive action than our fed and for the most part. So wed like to see the If you look at central banks yesterday, what they did, we want to see our federal reserve be much more proactive. Its important. But in the meantime were doing things that have been really well received. And I guess you saw that yesterday, at the end of the day, with what weve done. We have a lot of things to tell you in terms of respirators, in terms of all of the different things or the masks are being made by the millions, millions and millions. We have plenty now, but were ordering for the millions. Were ordering worst case scenario, we always say worst case scenario and thats where were going. So I just want to thank everybody. I think the press has been really, over the last 24 hours, I think the representations really been very fair, for the most part been very fair. Were all in this together. Its something that nobody expected. It came out of China and its one of those things that happened, its nobodys fault. We all will solve this problem. Well solve it well. I think the American people have been incredible in the way theyve acted.  And if you look at companies and sports leagues and all of the things, what theyve done is just something very special without being told, necessarily. In some cases perhaps they were told actually, but for the most part they want to get it over with. They want to get it over with quickly and with very little death. As of this moment we have 50 deaths, which is a lot of good decisions were made or that number could be many times that but thats based on a lot of good decisions. One or two in particular, you know that Europe was declared the hotspot yesterday, a big hotspot, number one and we made a decision quite a bit prior to that but we saw what was happening. But if you have any questions, this group will be very happy to do it.  But I just want to say they have been led by Mike Pence. They have been incredible, the job theyre doing. Theyre working 20 hours a day. This man is working 20 hours a day or maybe more? Is it more? I think its more. Tony has been working, Im just looking at this whole group and weve created a number of new stars, including the gentleman right behind me. I watched him the other day, it was such a fantastic job you did and I really appreciate it. But theyre going to be answering questions and we have a lot of new information, so I think youll find it very interesting and Ill be going back to the Oval Office. I think its fine if they do it. I think its frankly, its good if they do it. I think what Apple did is fine and want to keep people away for a little while, just keep them away. And when it gets better Well, people are going and buying things and I understand that. By the way, I had my temperature taken coming into the room. You did good? Lets compare. Do you want to compare? Good. Well that means were all looking good. I also took the test last night- And I decided I should, based on the press conference yesterday, people were asking, Did I take the test? I dont know, whatever it takes. A day or two days, whatever it is. They send it to a lab-  but I did take it. Only because the press- No, Ive been urgent. This is urgent for me right from the beginning. You know that because I closed up our country to China- Because it almost becomes a habit and you get out of that habit and frankly I was a non hand shaker for the most part. Id never believe that shaking hands, once you become a politician, and I notice it too, political people walk up to me, they want to shake my hand. I said, Well-  Just wait a minute, just take it nice and easy, okay? Just relax. People come up to me, they shake hands, they put their hand out. Its sort of a natural reflex and were all getting out of it. All of us have that problem. Somebody comes up to you, they put their hand out you probably tend to just shake it and were all getting out of that. Shaking hands is not a great thing to be doing right now, I agree. But people will put their hand out, sometimes Ill put the hand out. You dont think about it. People are thinking about it more and more. We have to think about it. Its important.  Somebody said yesterday, I touched the microphone. I was touching it because we have different height people and Im trying to make it easy for them because theyre going to have to touch, because they wouldnt be able to reach the mic. They wouldnt be able to speak in the mic. So Ill move the mic down and they said, Oh, he touched the microphone. Well if I dont touch it, theyre going to have to touch it. Somebodys going to have to, so I might as well be the one to do it. But no, we all have to get away from I mean getting away from shaking hands is a good thing and possibly thats something that comes out of this. Maybe people shouldnt be shaking hands for the longterm because it does transmit flu and other things. We have flu in our country that kills on average 36,000 people a year, 36,000 people and thats something that were not talking about. But as of this moment, weve lost 50, possibly a little bit less than 50 but probably 50 people. And were going to try and keep that number as low as possible. Well, if you dont have to travel, I wouldnt do it. If you dont have to travel We want this thing to end. We dont want a lot of people getting infected. We wanted to end and end as quickly as possible. So far I think weve done a fantastic job. I really think that the people behind me have not been given the credit that they deserve, because they have done a fantastic job. When you see all these school closures, when you see The school closures are very important, but it causes a lot of problems. The bill that we signed yesterday takes care of a lot of those problems, with children staying at home and the parents are working. Now we take care of that issue, with what we passed last night. Now it has to go through the Senate, I have to sign it, but that will happen. But Im now going back to the White House. You have great professionals and if theres anything that comes up- Yes. Specifically from certain areas, yes we are. And were working with the states and we are considering other restrictions, yes. Were looking at it very seriously, yeah. Because theyve had a little bit of activity unfortunately, so were going to be looking at that. We actually already have looked at it and that is going to be announced. No, I think I have the right to do that or the right to remove him as chairman. He is, so far, made a lot of bad decisions in my opinion. We had this great and we will soon have again, because I think youre going to have a tremendous bounce when this is over. I think theres a pent up bounce thats going to be tremendous. I think you saw that yesterday with the stock market. Now Im not happy with the fed, because I think that they are following, not leading. We should be leading. Im not happy because if you look at other central banks, largely theyre lower than us, their rate and their equivalent of the fed rate is lower, in some cases by two points. In some cases, thats a lot, in some cases very substantially. And I thought that the fed would be and should be much more proactive as opposed to following our fed is following.  We have the number one currency in the world by a factor of many times. As you know, we have the currency, we have the power, we have by far the strong currency also, you look at the dollar, the strength of the dollar. Our fed is not doing what they should be doing. We shouldnt have a fed rate thats higher than our competitor nations. You look at Germany, theyre essentially under zero, theyre negative. There are many countries negative. Japan is negative, Germany is negative, others are negative and were paying higher interest rates. And what Id like to do is frankly refinance our debt. We could refinance our debt very easily at a much lower rate. We have some tremendous opportunities right now, but Jerome Powell is not making it easy. No, I have the right to remove, Im not doing that.  No, Im not doing that. I have the right to also take him and put him in a regular position and put somebody else in charge and I havent made any decisions on that. Totally normal. . Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a quick review of the numbers as of late afternoon yesterday, let me start off quickly globally and then well go to the United States. Right now there are 129 countries that have involvement with coronavirus globally. The numbers are 132 plus thousand so its a little bit more than 132,000, about 7,500 of which are new cases.  Importantly, and this is something weve mentioned over the last couple of days, that if you look at what was formally the main feeder of this coronavirus outbreak was China. They have 80,000 or 81,000 new cases, but only 11 new cases and only seven new deaths. Things have switched over now to outside of China, which has actually triggered our decision, the decision of the President to do the travel restrictions in other areas besides China. And I think its important to recognize that because when this is all over and it will end, you will see a curve of how the coronavirus outbreak evolved.  Its not going to be a uni dimensional or homogeneous because countries are going to do this and then that. Weve it already with China, were starting to see it with Korea, which brings us now to what we can expect in our own country. If you look at the domestic cases, there are about 2,226 including the repatriations, 50 deaths, 532 new cases and nine new deaths, which means we have not reached our peak.  Now, we will see more cases and we will see more suffering and death predominantly as the Vice President said among the vulnerables in our society, the individuals with the conditions that we spoke to and the elderly, but built in that is a challenge. And the challenge is we still have the opportunity to influence the course of that curve. What we would like to see is that when this is all over all curve was not like that.  Our curve was like this, so thats the reason why were implementing the things were talking about. And finally I just want to make a comment about yesterday, as a physician, which is what I primarily am, who takes care of patients every day before I was doing this is that there are things that happened yesterday that I think are going to be really important to the people out there who are going to be impacted by this, but particularly by the physicians and that is the President declaring a state of national emergency because that will be what I thought the word that I use essentially unshackling us from any of the things that are going to get in the way of our implemented.  Particularly the new powers giving to the Secretary of HHS, Alex Azar, and the departments within his agency, particularly CMS, which youre going to hear about shortly. And within that group, particularly the nursing home situation, which weve really got to protect. The other thing is we always get asked about testing. You saw the CDO out there, now its all systems go, lets look forward.  The responsibility is going to be with us but also with them because as we get knowledge about new testing will alleviate the anxiety that we have in the world about we dont know whats going on, but it also will give the individual physician and individual citizen the opportunity to know where they stand. Ill stop there and happy to answer questions later. Thank you. Yeah, sure. I think that I mean obviously when youre a senior individual like myself, that my degree of protecting against infections is not as good as it was when youre 30. But if youre an otherwise healthy senior, that the things that you really have less of a risk than if you have an underlying condition. Thank you."
"Beautiful day outside. And then I think we have some great things to talk about. Ill start by discussing the Federal Reserve. As you know, it just happened minutes ago, but to me it makes me very happy. And I want to congratulate the Federal Reserve. For starters, theyve lowered the fed rate from what it was, which was one to 1.25. And its been lowered down to zero to 0.25 or 0.25. So its zero to .25 thats a big difference. Its a quite a bit, about a point.  And in addition, very importantly, the Federal Reserve going to be purchasing $500 billion of treasuries and $200 billion of mortgage backed securities. And that number can increase, but theyre going to start with that and thats really good news. Its really great for our country. Its something that were very happy, I have to say this. Im very happy and they did it in one step. They didnt do it in four steps over a long period of time. They did it on one step.  And I think that people in the market should be very thrilled. And that brings us, were the strongest country in the world by far financially and every other way. And that brings us in line with what other countries are. They actually have negative rates, but look, we got it down to potentially zero. So thats a big step and Im very happy they did it.  And you will not hear anything bad about me unless its about a month or two from now. So I congratulate the Federal Reserve. I think its terrific. Just came out just as we spoke, I wasnt going to mention Federal Reserve or anything else, but this came out as we were walking up.  I want to thank the people at Google and Google communications because as you know, they substantiated what I said on Friday. The head of Google, whos a great gentleman, called us and he apologized. I dont know where the press got their fake news, but they got it someplace. But as you know, this is from Google. They put out a release and you guys can figure it out yourselves. And how that got out, and Im sure youll apologize. But it would be great if we could really give the news correctly. It would be so, so wonderful.  I just had a phone call with very impressive people, the biggest in the world, in the world of stores and groceries and all. And Ill give you the names Dave Clark, Whole Foods. Mark Clouse, CEO of Campbell Soup Company. Brian Cornell, CEO of Target, Randy Edeker, Chairman and CEO, President of Hy-Vee, Jeff Haremning, CEO of General Mills, great company. Kevin Birkin President, CEO of Sysco. Craig Jelinek, CEO of Costco. Todd Jones, CEO of Publix Supermarkets, Donnie King Tyson Foods. David MacLennan, Chairman and CEO of Cargill. Rodney McMillan, CEO, Chairman of Kroger, big company. Doug McMillan, CEO of Walmart. Hes been fantastic. Doug was here, as you know, on Friday and he watched the market go up 2000 points on Friday. It went up 2000 almost 2000 points. Todd Vasos, CEO of Dollar General Corporation, and Vivek San Quran, President and CEO of Albertsons.  So these are all phenomenal companies. Hes a great companies. We had a long conversation with them and theyre going to work 24 hours around the clock, keeping their store stocked. I would like to say that people shouldnt go out and buy. Were going to all be great. Were going to be so good. Were going to do, whats happened with the fed is phenomenal news. Whats happening with all of these incredible companies is phenomenal news. But you dont have to buy so much. Take it easy. Just relax. People are going in and theyre buying more. I remember, I guess during the conversation, Doug of Walmart said that they buying more than they buy a Christmas. Relax, were doing great. It all will pass.  The folks that we spoke to, theyve done a fantastic job. Theyre going to meet the needs of the public. Theyre going round the clock if they have to and theyre committed to the communities where theyre serving and which they serve so beautifully and have for a long time. And theyre buying a lot of additional things to sell. But again, they actually have asked me to say, Could you buy a little bit less please? I thought Id never hear that from a retailer. All of them are working hand in hand with the Federal Government as well as the state and local leaders to ensure food and essentials are constantly available. And theyll do it. Theres no shortages. We have no shortages other than people are buying anywhere from three to five times what they would normally buy.  Its going to be there for a long time. Were doing numbers and theres a pent up demand thats incredible. When this passes, when this goes through, youre going to see numbers. I think, I predict, I guess Im allowed to predict just like Wall Street people are allowed to predict and theyre pretty much in agreement. Youre going to see theres a pent up demand like a lot of people including me havent seen before. But this has to get through.  They know theyre getting through the crisis and will require an all of America approach and thats very important. Theyre committed to remaining open during this crisis. Totally open. They have to stay open. Those doors have to stay open. They supply our country. Our supply chains in America, the most powerful in the world, and theyre all working very hard. Theyre working around the clock and the stores are stocking up at a level thats beyond Christmas time. And its great. It was very reassuring speaking to these people. They have a totally in hand.  Theres no need for anybody in the country to hoard essential food supplies. They said to me, Could you please tell them just go and buy. Enjoy it, have a nice dinner, relax because theres plenty. You dont have to buy the quantities because its hard to refill the stores on a basis as rapid as theyre refilling them.  And we are using the full power of the Federal Government to defeat the coronavirus. And we will do whatever it takes and were doing, I think really, really well. A lot of good things are going to happen. I want to thank all of the people standing behind me. These are phenomenal people and we have some of them right over here. But the people behind me have been working around the clock and theyre doing an incredible job.  We see whats happening. We see whats going on in other countries. Were learning from watching other countries, frankly. This is a very contagious virus. Its incredible, but its something that we have a tremendous control of. I think very important the young people, people of good health and groups of people just are not strongly affected. Elderly people that are not well or not well in certain respects are a really a very dangerous group. We have to watch them, we have to protect them very much. We have to really watch over them and protect them because they are very vulnerable. And with that if its okay Im just going to go and make some calls. Im talking about Federal Reserve. I think its a tremendous thing that took place just now. I didnt know I would be surprised on a Sunday. I dont know if thats ever happened on a Sunday before, but I would think there are a lot of people on Wall Street that are very happy. And I can tell you that Im very happy. I didnt expect this and I like being surprised. So our Vice President who is doing an incredible job is going to take over and I will see you probably tomorrow.  Thank you you very much."
"Im glad to see that youre practicing social distancing. That looks very nice. Thats very good. I want to thank everybody for being here today. This morning I spoke with the leaders of the G seven, G seven nations and they really had a good meeting. I think it was a very, very productive meeting. I also spoke with our nations governors, and this afternoon were announcing new guidelines for every American to follow over the next 15 days. As we combat the virus, each and every one of us has a critical role to play in stopping the spread and transmission of the virus. We did this today. This was done by a lot of very talented people, some of whom were standing with me, and thats available.  Dr. Birx will be speaking about that in just a few minutes. Its important for the young and healthy people to understand that while they may experience milder symptoms, they can easily spread this virus and they will spread it indeed, putting countless others in harms way. We especially worry about our senior citizens. The White House task force meets every day and continually updates guidelines based on the fast evolving situation that this has become all over the world. Its all over the world. Its incredible whats happened in such a short period of time. On the guidelines of the task force, the new modeling conducted by Dr. Birx and our consultation with governors, weve made the decision to further toughen the guidelines and blunt the infection now. Wed much rather be ahead of the curve than behind it and thats what we are. Therefore, my administration is recommending that all Americans, including the young and healthy, work to engage in schooling from home when possible, avoid gathering in groups of more than 10 people.  Avoid discretionary travel and avoid eating and drinking at bars, restaurants, and public food courts. If everyone makes this change or these critical changes and sacrifices now, we will rally together as one nation and we will defeat the virus and were going to have a big celebration altogether. With several weeks of focused action, we can turn the corner and turn it quickly and a lot of progress has been made. Im also pleased to report today that a vaccine candidate has begun the phase one clinical trial. This is one of the fastest vaccine development launches in history, not even close. Were also racing to develop antiviral therapies and other treatments and weve had some promising results, early results, but promising to reduce the severity and the duration of the symptoms. And I have to say that our government is prepared to do whatever it takes, whatever it takes were doing, and were doing it in every way. And with that Id like to just introduce Dr. Birx, Whos going to discuss some of the things that we strongly recommend. Thank you. Okay, go ahead. My favorite question, I ask it all the time, how many times Anthony? I think I ask him that question every day and I speak to Debra, I speak to a lot of them. I get the opinion. So it seems to me that if we do a really good job, well not only hold the death down to a level that is a much lower than the other way had we not done a good job, but people are talking about July, August, something like that. So it could be right in that period of time where I say it washes through, other people dont like that term, but it washes through. Well see what happens. But they think August, could be July. It could be longer than that. But Ive asked that question many, many times. Yes? I think they are very scared. I think they see that were doing a very professional job. Weve been working with the governors and the frankly, the mayors, local government at every level. We have FEMA totally involved. FEMA has been  Usually we see FEMA for the hurricanes and the tornadoes. Now we have FEMA involved in this. Theyve been doing a fantastic job locally, working with people that they know because they work, like as an example, in California, in the state of Washington, they work with them a lot on other things and theyre very familiar, so theyre working on it. What you can do and all you can do is professional, totally competent. We have the best people in the world. We have really the greatest experts in the world and someday soon hopefully itll end and well be back to where it was, but this came up  We came up so suddenly look, you were surprised. We were all surprised. We heard about it.  We heard about reports from China that something was happening and all of a sudden we did make a good decision. We closed our borders to China very quickly, very rapidly. That was  Otherwise wed be in a very, as Tony has said numerous times, wed be in a very bad position, much worse than we would be right now. Youre looking at whats happening in other countries. Italy is having a very hard time, but I think that what we do, and Ive spoken actually with my son, he says, How bad is this? Its bad. Its bad, but were going to, were going to be hopefully a case not a worst case and thats what were working for. Yes? Well, we have that very much. Yeah, we have that very much and we are  Weve been pretty aggressive. We were early with Europe but we were very, very early with China and other places and fortunately we were. And as far as containment here, we are. Were coming out with strong suggestions and its becoming a little bit automatic. You look at people, theyre not doing certain things. For instance, obviously not  I wouldnt say the restaurant business is booming and bars and grills and all. People are self- containing for to a large extent. We look forward to the day when we can get back to normal. Whats your second question? At this point, not nationwide, but, well, there was some point  Some places in our nation that are not very effected at all, but we may look at certain areas, certain hotspots, as they call them. Well be looking at that, but at this moment, no, were not.   call them. Well be looking at that. But at this moment, no, were not. I had my test. It was late Friday night. The reason I did it was because the  I had no symptoms whatsoever. The doctor said, You have no symptoms so we dont see any reason. But when I did the press conference on Friday, everybody was going crazy. Did you do the test? Did you do the test? Very late on Friday night I did the test. The doctor may have put out something. I dont know what time the letter went out. Maybe it was put out by somebody else, but the results came back I believe the following day. We tested negative. I told them that and I went totally by what they said, the doctors, more than one. They said you dont have any of the symptoms. They checked what youre supposed to check and that I didnt have symptoms, but I did a test late on Friday night. It came back probably 24 hours later or something. They sent it to the labs. It came back later. Yeah, please. If they can get them faster by getting them on their own, in other words, go through a supply chain that they may have. Because the governors during normal times, the governors buy a lot of things, not necessarily through federal government. If theyre able to get ventilators, respirators, if theyre able to get certain things without having to go through the longer process of federal government.  We have stockpiles now where were ordering tremendous numbers of ventilators, respirators, masks, and theyre ordered. Theyre coming. We have quite a few at this point. I think, Mike, we have a lot. But if they can get them directly, its always going to be faster if they could get them directly if they need them. Ive given them authorization to order directly. Thats right. First of all, we hope we dont get there. Thats what were doing. Thats why were taking a very strict look at this. But we also are looking at areas and not only looking, were expanding certain areas. Were taking over buildings that arent used. Were doing a lot in that regard. We hope we dont have to get there, but we are doing a lot in that regard. Were looking at that and we may be expanding that. We are looking at that. We want fairness. We want it for everybody. No, were looking at that through the Senate, because as you know the Senate is now digesting that bill. We may very well be adding something on that. Good question. I could get back to you with that number. Weve ordered a lot. We have quite a few, but it may not be enough. If its not enough, we will have it by the time we need it. Hopefully we wont need them. Yeah, well be able to give you- We can give you a number. If its important, well give you a number. Go ahead. When Im talking about control, Im saying we are doing a very good job within the confines of what were dealing with. Were doing a very good job. Theres been a tremendous amount of the way theyre working together. Theyre working hand-in-hand. I think theyre doing really a great job. From that standpoint, thats what I was referring to yesterday. Yeah, Steve, go ahead. Im not referring to it. Meaning the- Yeah, if youre talking about the virus, no. Thats not under control for any place in the world. I think I read- I think I read  no, I didnt. I was talking about what were doing is under control, but Im not talking about the virus.  Yes, please. Well, it may be. Were not thinking in terms of recession. Were thinking in terms of the virus. Once we stop I think theres a tremendous pent-up demand both in terms of the stock market, in terms of the economy. Once this goes away, once it goes through and were done with it, I think youre going to see a tremendous, a tremendous surge. Were not really. We hope we dont have to, Steve. We think that hopefully we wont have to do that. But its certainly something that we talk about every day. We havent made that decision. I think the federal governments doing everything that we can possibly do. We made some very good early decisions by keeping people out, by keeping countries out, certain countries where the infection was very immense. I noticed a lot of people are talking about South Korea because theyve a good job on one side, but on the other side, tremendous problems at the beginning. They had tremendous problems and great numbers of death. I think that weve done a fantastic job from just about every standpoint.  With that being said, no matter where you look, this is something. Its an invisible enemy. But we are speaking all the time, not only with the people, but also the professional people, the nurses, the doctors, they have been doing a fantastic job. We are also working very much on getting them the kind of equipment that they need. For the most part, they either have it or they will be getting it.  But remember this, we want the governors, we want the mayors, we want them locally, from a local standpoint because it can go quicker, we want them to work. We had a great talk with the governors today. I think it was a really great talk. Theres a tremendous coordination. Theres a tremendous spirit that we have together with the governors. Thats pretty much for the most part, bipartisan. Yeah. I dont number one determine recession. I just say this. We have an invisible enemy. We have a problem that a month ago nobody ever thought about. Ive read about it. I read about many years ago, 1917, 1918. Ive seen all of the different problems similar to this that weve had. This is a bad one. This is a very bad one. This is bad in the sense that its so contagious. Its just so contagious, sort of a record setting-type contagion. The good part is the young people they do very well and healthy people do very well. Very, very bad for older people, especially older people with problems. My focus is really on getting rid of this problem, this virus problem. Once we do that, everything else is going to fall into place. Yes, please. Ive been watching. I dont know. That I cant tell you if they are or not. I think a lot of the media actually has been very fair. I think people are pulling together on this. I really think the media has been very fair. I think it could be that you have some foreign groups that are playing games, but it doesnt matter. We havent really determined to do that at all and hopefully we wont have to. Thats a very big step. Its a step we can take, but we have not decided to do it. Jennifer, go. Ive heard thats true. I dont know that for a fact, but I know that some of my people have, as I understand it, have been dealing with them or with him. Thats nice. Weve had tremendous support from a lot of people that can help. I believe he was one of them.  As far as the airlines are concerned, were going to back the airlines 100%. its not their fault. Its nobodys fault unless you go to the original source, but its nobodys fault. Were going to be in a position to help the airlines very much. Weve told the airlines were going to help them. Were going to be helping. Were going to be backstopping the airlines. Were going to be helping them very much, John. Its very important. Were going to be looking at it very strongly. We have to back the airlines. Its not their fault. In fact, they were having a record season. Everybody was. They were having record seasons. Then this came out and it came out from nowhere. Not their fault, but were going to be back the airline. Yeah. Best thing I can do for the stock market is we have to get through this crisis. Thats what I can do. Thats the best thing we can do. Thats what I think about. Once this virus has gone, I think youre going to have a stock market like nobodys ever seen before. Oh, okay. Yeah. That would be the outside number. Hold on one second. Please, go ahead. I think they may make it even better. Look, theyre working together very well with the House. They are working very much in unison, like the question before. Theyre working to only enhance it and make it better and make it fair for everybody. Thats what were looking to do. We may go back and forth with the House a little bit, but both will be in a very positive fashion. Please. Let me just have the professionals answer that. Would you like to do that? Please. Go ahead, Yes, Mike. Admiral, perhaps you could- I think the admiral can answer that and you might want to talk about the roving also. I think just to put it a different way, a lot of testing has been going on. I dont believe anybody has been able to do what were doing and what we will be doing. This has never been done before. Thats never been done and certainly not on a level like that. I will say that I think I can speak for the professionals that if you dont have the symptoms, if your doctor doesnt think you need it, dont get the test. Dont get the test. I think thats very important. Not everybody should run out and get the test, but were able to handle tremendous numbers of people.  John? Were looking into it. Weve heard that. Weve heard it from really two places. There are two places that have specifically, New York being one. We are looking into it very strongly. Yeah.  Steve, go ahead please. Ive always washed my hands a lot. I wash my hands a lot. Maybe, if anything, more, certainly not less. Not something I want to do every day. I can tell you that. Its a little bit of  good doctors in the White House, but its a test. Its a test. Its a medical test. Nothing pleasant about it. I think he can do more. I think he can do more. Its an area of the country thats very hot right now. I think New Rochelle, a place I know very well. I grew up right near New Rochelle.  Place I know very well. I grew up right near New Rochelle. I think its a very, no I think its an area that has to be tamped down even more. Because its a hotbed. Theres no question about it. So I think they could look at doing it. But were getting along very well. Weve had a very, in fact, I noticed he made some statements just now that the relationship with the federal government has been good. That federal government has done everything theyve wanted us to do.  But we can, I think its very important that all of the governors get along very well with us. And that we get along with the governors and I think thats happening. Well, we havent thought of it. But you know, I will say this, were very careful. Were very careful with being together. Even the people behind me theyve been very strongly tested. Ive been very strongly tested and we have to be very careful. But everybody should be very vigilant. We have to be vigilant. Yeah please. Go ahead please. Hold it, hold it. Before you. Id rate it a ten. I think weve done a great job. And it started with the fact that we kept a very highly infected country despite, even the professionals saying, No, its too early to do that. We were very, very early with respect to China. And we would have a whole different situation in this country. If we didnt do that. I would rate ourselves and the professional. I think the professionals have done a fantastic job.  As far as the testing. You heard the Admiral, I think the testing that weve done. We really took over an obsolete system. Or put it maybe in a different way, a system that wasnt meant to do anything like this. We took it over and were doing something thats never been done in this country. And I think that we are doing very well. We took the system, we worked with the system we had and we broke down the system purposely. We broke it down in order to do what were doing now. And within a short period of time and even now were testing tremendous numbers of people. And ultimately youre saying, it will be what? It will be up to how many people will be able to test? Yeah, normally. But I think when you hear the, This has never been done before in this country. If you look back take a look at some of the things that took place in 09 or 11 or whatever it may have been nobodys ever done anything like what were doing. Now. I will also say Admiral, I think we can say that were also getting this ready for the future. So that when we have a future problem, if and when, and hopefully we dont have anything like this. But if there is, were going to be starting off from a much higher plateau. Because we were at a very, very low base. We had a system that was not meant for this. It was a smaller system. It was meant for a much different purpose and for that purpose it was fine. But not for this purpose. So we broke down the system and now we have something thats going to be and is very special and is ready for future problems. I think we can say that very strongly. Yeah. Go ahead please. Well, Id leave that up to the states. Its a big thing. Postponing an election. I think to me that really goes to the heart of what were all about. I think postponing and elections is a very tough thing I know theyre doing, because theyve been in touch with us, theyre doing it very carefully. Theyre spreading people out at great distances as you can see. And I think theyll do it very safely. I hope they do it very safely, but I think postponing elections is not a very good thing. They have lots of room and a lot of the electoral places. And I think that they will do it very well, but I think postponing is unnecessary. We think about it. We think about it. If we dont have to do it, thatll be good. We have very strong emergency powers when it comes to something like this, both on the Southern and the Northern borders. And we are talking about different things, but well see. Right now we have not decided to do that. Steve. Go ahead please. Yeah, no the marked will take care of itself. The market will be a very strong as soon as we get rid of the virus. Yes. I havent heard that. I havent heard that from Devin or anybody else. Well I have to see what they said. But- Well, I would disagree with it. But right now we dont have an order one way or the other. We dont have an order, but I think its probably better that you dont. Especially in certain areas, Oklahoma doesnt have a tremendous problem. You said the Governor of Oklahoma? And Devin. Yeah, well I had heard that.  I would said verse to what the professionals are saying. Yeah. Ill take a look at it. Absolutely. Do you want to answer that? Well we havent said that yet. Were recommending but-  were recommending things. No, we havent gone to that step yet. That could happen, but we havent gone there yet. Please. Well hopefully it will pas through and hopefully everybody will be going to restaurants and flying and being on cruise ships and all of these different things that we do. And it will very, very hopefully be at a fairly quick period of time. But were taking a tough stance. We may make certain other decisions, we may enhance those decisions. Were going to find out as per the question that you were asking, some of those decisions may be hence. How about one more? Jennifer. Yeah. One thing Mike just said, its very important to get out that this is for the next, much of what were talking about is for the next 15 days. Mike go ahead. Just one more. Steve go ahead please. Yeah. We had a G7. It was- It looks like it. I am very confident. Theyre in a position that some of them are in a rough position. If you look at a couple of them. And some are heading toward pretty rough territory. We had a very good a conference. It was a teleconference. Everybody was on the phone, every leader. And almost a hundred percent was devoted to the subject that were talking about today. And they are working very hard and theyre very concerned obviously, but theyre working very hard. But I would say just about all of it was Steve, all of it was devoted to what were talking about. I think so. I mean so far it seems, we didnt even discuss that. Its still a ways off. But it was a very good discussion and theres a great comradery. Theres a great togetherness. I think I can say that very, very strongly. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much everyone. Thank you. Progress being made and I appreciate youre all joining us. Last night the FDA announced groundbreaking new policies to further increase testing, very substantially so. All states can now authorize tests developed and used within their borders in addition to the FDA. So the states are very much involved. They have been involved from the beginning, but were stepping it up as much as we can and the testing procedures are going well and within a short period of time, all of the private labs will kick in. This never been done before and its going to be something very  I think its going to be incredible if its done properly and these great companies. These are among the greatest companies in the world actually. So the state is going to be dealing through themselves and with local government, local physicians, local everybody. Theyre also dealing with us, but we have a tremendous testing capacity.  Today were also announcing a dramatic expansion of our Medicare Telehealth services. Medicare patients can now visit any doctor by phone or video conference at no additional costs, including with commonly used services like FaceTime and Skype, a historic breakthrough. This has not been done before either. In addition, states have the authority to recover Telehealth services for their medical patients and by doing this, the patient is not seeing the doctor per se, but theyre seeing the doctor so theres no getting close. During this time, we will not enforce applicable HIPAA penalties so that doctors can greatly expand care for their patients using Telehealth. So the penalties wont be enforced. We encourage everyone to maximize use of Telehealth to limit exposure to the virus. Its been a very successful method of communication but never used on a scale like were going to use the Telehealth. And youll be able to also better maintain hospital capacity by doing this.  Earlier this morning, I spoke with executives from Americas fast food industry, Wendys, McDonalds, all of the big ones, Burger King, and they were great. We were talking about the pickups in light of yesterdays guidance. You heard to avoid eating or drinking at bars, restaurants, or public food courts. We discussed the important role that the drive-through pickup and delivery service can play in the weeks ahead. So thats happening and they have been fantastic. They have been absolutely fantastic and theyve been doing it already, but theyre keeping it open and smaller staffs of very capable people and very capable companies and theyre doing it, pickups.  Our guidance yesterday urges Americans to take action for 15 days to help stem the outbreak, so its a 15 day period. I guess now wed say its a 14 day period. Its 15 days from yesterday and were asking everyone to work at home if possible, postpone unnecessary travel and limit social gatherings to no more than 10 people. By making shared sacrifices and temporary changes, we can protect the health of our people and we can protect our economy because I think our economy will come back very rapidly. So its 15 days from yesterday. Well see what happens after that. If we do this right, our country and the world frankly, but our country can be rolling again pretty quickly, pretty quickly. We have to fight that invisible enemy that I guess unknown, but were getting to know it a lot better.  Today, the Senate has taken up coronavirus legislation that includes free testing for those who need it, as well as paid sick leave and family medical leave for workers affected by the virus. Were also committed to getting small businesses the support that they need. In fact, one of the things we talked about with the fast food operations, we spoke to the chairman and CEOs of all of the companies, but one of the things we discussed is exactly that, getting small businesses support and flexibility that they need for themselves and for their workers and thats being worked on right now.  At my direction, Secretary Mnuchin is meeting today with senators on additional stimulus packages. I can tell you hes meeting with them late until the night last night and for a big part of the day yesterday and tremendous things are happening. Theres great spirit, tremendous spirit, and I can say that for Republicans and Democrats. I can say that with respect to Governor Cuomo. We had a great talk this morning. Were both doing a really good job and were coordinating it and we agree. Different states need different things and we agree on that 100%, but we had a very good talk and I think were right down the same track and its going to be very successful.  New York has a pretty big problem I guess would be the number one hot spot. Thats no fault of anybodys. Its just the way it is. But were working very closely together. Were also getting FEMA very much involved. Theyve been involved but now were getting them to a different level and well have everything ready. Were dealing with the Army Corps of engineers should that be necessary. We have them working in some cases, on standby in other cases, but my conversation with Andrew Cuomo was a very, very productive one and a very good one and I appreciate that.  Were giving relief to affected industries and small businesses and were ensuring that we emerge from this challenge with a prosperous and growing economy because thats whats going to happen. Its going to pop. One day well be standing possibly up here. Well say, Well, we won, and were going to say that. Sure as youre sitting there, were going to say that, and were going to win. I think were going to win faster than people think, I hope.  Later today, Ill meet with the leaders from the tourism industry as well as industrial supply retailers and wholesalers to discuss their critical roles. As you know, I met with the department store people, all of the retailers, the big ones including Walmart and others, and it was great meeting. Theyre stocking up their stores like theyve never stocked them before. Were trying to get people to actually buy less, if thats possible. Buy less. Dont take everything, just buy what you need for a while. Theyre going to stay open all hours of the day and theyve really been, theyve been fantastic.  Were taking aggressive action now as one nation and one family so that America can rebound stronger, frankly stronger than ever before. And we recognize that while many American workers can work from home, many others cannot. Many of our healthcare providers, first responders and men and women in the food service and manufacturing are showing that  Theyre showing up and standing up to provide us with the goods and services we need. So we want people to stay home where they can, but many cases when you talk about food service and manufacturing certain items in particular, theyre going in and theyre practicing all of the safety rules and regulations that we talk about. So with that, Id like to just introduce our great vice president, Mike Pence. Hell say a few words and then Ill make some other introductions. Thank you very much. I want to thank Chad Wolf and Homeland Security and the job they did at the airports was really incredible. They screened thousands and thousands of people. OHara got backed up a little bit, but they got them out but everybody was screened and screened very carefully. They didnt want to rush it. I think it was 13 airports and it was an incredible thing. Then they had a big surge also from the UK and Ireland and that went very smoothly, but they did a fantastic job. They work long hours and they did a fantastic job.  Id like to introduce Steven Mnuchin and then Im going to ask Steve to leave because hes going to the Hill. Hes been working very hard with the Senate and with actually with the House on a very, very big bold package. Its going to be big and its going to be bold and the level again of enthusiasm to get something done, I dont think Ive ever seen anything quite like it. So, Steve Mnuchin, please. Do you have any questions or the Secretary of the Treasury? Please, please wait please. The airline industry will be in good shape. Yeah, go ahead please. I think I think were going to do something that gets money to them as quickly as possible. That may not be an accurate way of doing it because obviously some people shouldnt be getting checks for $1,000 and well have a pretty good idea by the end of the day what were going to be doing. I have to say this, there are four different ways you can do it. You can hear me well enough, I imagine. People at home; those are very important people, especially your people.  Look, we have four or five ways we can do it, four ways in particular. I think theres a fifth possibility but there are some very good ways of getting the money out and getting it out quickly. Payroll tax is one way, but it does come over a period of months, many months and we want to do something much faster than that. So I think we have ways of getting money out pretty quickly and very accurately. We dont want to talk about it but its a substantial number. Were going big. The expression, we could do it two ways. We could keep going back every day or every week. Were going big and thats where Mitch McConnell, thats the way he wants to go. Thats the way I want to go. I think we want to get it done and have a big infusion as opposed to going through a little meetings every couple of days. We dont want to do it that way. We want to go big, go solid.  The country is very strong. Weve never been so strong and thats what were going to be doing. We dont want with this invisible enemy, we dont want airlines going out of business. We dont want people losing their jobs or not having money to live when they were doing very well just four weeks ago. So were going big and thats the way itll be and thats the way everybody seems to like it on the Hill.  Any other questions for Steve? Thanks, Steve. And the banks are record setting strong, so we have that, which is a much different event than what we had not so long ago. John, go ahead. Yes, were starting to. Were starting the process and its a process. We hope its not going to be necessary, but it could be necessary.  The state is working on it very hard themselves, but well probably supplement what theyre doing. No, I dont see that at all and I think China has every incentive to make sure that things work well. China wants to make sure that things work very well. They have every incentive to do so. Jeff. Well, the Governor of Ohio is doing a great job. He called that off and well see what happens, is a court case and it hasnt been fully determined yet, but if he called it off I could understand that because you know hes definitely somebody that knows what hes doing. Well be seeing very soon, theyre going by the rule of 10 as opposed to 50 and its pretty tough. I would say probably you could violate that if you wanted to for an election.  I just think an election is a very special thing hes going to chose. He chose a different date, I think a date sometime in June but that would be a decision that would be made by him. He felt it was necessary. The courts are, somebody challenging it, so the courts will ultimately decide. What Im doing? Yeah. What Im doing Johns, very simple. Were getting rid of this virus. Thats what were doing. Thats the best thing we can do.  By the way, for the markets, for everything. Its very simple, very simple solution. We want to get rid of it. We want to have very, as few deaths as possible. This is a horrible thing. You look at whats going on with Italy. We dont want to be in a position like that but a much larger because were a much larger country. We dont want to be there and I think weve done really well. I think weve done well. I think the states have done well. Were all working together.  The best thing we can do is get rid of the virus. Once thats gone, its going to pop back like nobodys ever seen before. Thats my opinion but I think it will pop back like nobodys ever seen before. Please. I ordered a massive numbers of ventilators. We have by any normal standards, we have a lot of respirators, ventilators. We have tremendous amounts of equipment but compared to what were talking about here, this has never been done before. Yesterday I gave the governors the right to go order directly if they want, if they feel they can do it faster than going through the federal government.  Now weve knocked out all of the bureaucracy. Its very direct, but its still always faster to order directly and I gave them, that was totally misinterpreted by the New York Times on purpose unfortunately. But its very important. Yes, Mike. Please. The Army Corps is very prepared to do, as we say, and were looking at where its going, and they do call them MASH hospitals, but the field hospitals go up very quickly there. We have them, we have all of this equipment in stock and were looking at different sites in a few different locations and were not going to need in West Virginia where so far I guess they have none. Still none. Still none. Right. West Virginia. Big Jim, the governors, he must be doing a good job. Thats whats reported. Well, thats all.I just see. West Virginia is the only one that has no cases. So obviously thats being treated differently than a New Yorker or a California; different parts of California. I do say this though. The the Army Corps of Engineers is ready, willing and able.  We have to give them the go ahead, if we find that its going to be necessary. We think we can have quite a few units up very rapidly. Im going to work with Governor Cuomo. Im going to work with a number of the governors. Governor Newsome has been very generous in his words and Im being generous to him too because were all working together very well and I think a lot of very positive things have taken place.  Were talking to California about different sites but we can, we can have a lot of units up fairly quickly if we think we need them.  I think what Ill do is I might ask Sema to say a few words on the telehealth and then we can get back to this, please. Sema. Any questions? Will you be posting numbers also? That might be the easiest way to do it. If you post in ads, if you post some numbers. Thank you. Thank you very much. Admiral, if youd say a few words about where were going. Then Id like to ask Dr. Birx to say a couple of words, but how the systems working? Thank you very much. Thank you, Admiral. This has never been done before. It sets a great roadmap for our future should we have something like this in the future. I hope we dont, but its never been done before. Theyve done an incredible job. But again, were working with the states and relying on the states. We have to because its point of sale, its point of sight. Were in I think just about every instance getting along really well with the states. If I could, Dr. Birx, if you could say a couple of words, please? Its a big thing. Doctor, maybe a couple of questions? Weve been very tough on those states. I know exactly who youre talking about. Weve been very tough on them. Thank you. Please, go ahead. The states are actually doing a lot of it. The governors and the states are doing a lot of it with even our tests. Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead, please. Its possible. Its possible. Well see how it goes. Theres been great cooperation with the local governments, states. Well see how it goes. Its going right now pretty well. Yeah. Please, go ahead. Go ahead. Were able to do that if we have to. Right now we havent had to, but its certainly ready if I want it. We can do it very quickly. Weve studied it very closely over two weeks ago, actually. Well make that decision pretty quickly if we need it. We hope we dont need it. Its a big step. When you say the states- In particular, three states need some help. Some states have two people, three people, no people. In the case of, again, West Virginia. Were looking at it very closely. Weve taken it apart 15 different ways. Its a very difficult thing to do. Its a very big step. If we need that step, well take it. Okay. I would just say enjoy your home, stay. I would just say right now we have to get this problem fixed and then well get back into business really quick. Well open up our country. Well open up our society. The world will hopefully open up. We see areas of the world that havent done well. We see areas that are doing very well. I would put us in the category of doing very well for a country so big. I think that I would recommend that they just enjoy their living room.  Yeah, go ahead please. Im not happy with those people if theyre not, but those people are being shouted down by other people. They know it. Its almost like self-policing. People went in. There were a couple of instances, I guess, probably more than a couple of where people are not happy when they see others doing what theyre not supposed to be doing. We have to get rid of this. We have to win this war and ideally quickly, quickly. Because the longer it takes, its not a good situation. Im not even talking about the economy. Im talking about the lives of a lot of people.  Yeah, please. Did you have one? I think Im going to ask Mike, answer that question. Weve had so much incredible  I dont know. Its almost the word spirit is the best word. Its like a spirit. The banks have come in. The banks are doing things that they wouldve never done. Theyre working on extensions and lots of things that they wouldnt have done. Copays with regard to the insurance companies, I mean for them to be doing what theyre doing. You know all about the copays. They would have never done that. They did it. They were in my office. I would say the 11 biggest in this country, I guess probably the 11 biggest of the world. The big ones, all the big ones. They did things on copay that nobody would be doing that they wouldnt have done in a million years, but theyre doing it. Theres a great spirit going on right now in the country. You want to  yes, please. Go ahead, please. Go ahead, please. Were looking at many ideas. Thats one of them, frankly. Were looking at creating incentives for companies. Not only that type of company, but other companies. Were also looking to help companies such as the airline industry, within the airline industry. Well be doing that. We will be doing that. This is not their fault. Theyve been very understanding actually. Were going to be helping them. We will have a very powerful airline industry. Itll start up as soon as this is over. Well have those planes ready to go. We have to help them during the short term. Its very important.  Yeah, please. Weve looked at every model. Weve relied on the very talented people and theres no better team than the people behind me. I will say that all of the people that have done those models are all in constant touch with Dr. Birx and Tony and everybody that youve been hearing so much from over the last couple of weeks. Weve looked at many different models. The model we have is we want to save a lot of lives. We want to save a lot of lives. If we get too steep on that curve, youre going to lose a lot of lives, perhaps unnecessarily.  Now were going to find out, everything has a risk. Were going to see. But if people do what were telling them to do, what were asking them to do, youre going to see the saving of a lot of lives. Now, Boris, in UK yesterday, you saw what happened. It looked like they were going a different way, but then he went away of similar, I guess similar, I dont know exactly. But I would say we had a conversation yesterday similar to what were doing. A lot of people seem to think this is going to be  we are looking to save the maximum number of lives.  We are looking to save the maximum number of lives. Everything else is going to come back. A life is never going to come back, but everything else, our economy is going to come roaring back. Youre going to know. Were going to know. Were going to all know that day. Somebody was asking about the day. When will you know? When will you know? Were going to know. All of a sudden were going to say, Wow, thats looking good. Thats looking good. Thats looking good. Were going to be on the other side of the curve, and thats a day that we look forward to. Okay? No, I dont think so. This is where were going. I really think from the beginning, this is where we were going. This is what we had in mind. Were just going step by step. That was the next step. The next logical step as Dr. Fauci said and I think very importantly, one of the most important things when you write the history of this was the fact that we closed it down to China and Europe, but in particular China, we closed it down to China, the source very, very early, very, very early, far earlier than even the great professionals wanted to do. I think in the end thats going to be, that will have saved a tremendous number of lives. I mean I have seen that where people actually liked it, but I didnt feel different. Ive always known this is a pandemic. I felt it was a pandemic long before it was called a pandemic. All you had to do is look at other countries. I think now its in almost 120 countries all over the world. No, Ive always viewed it as very series. There was no difference yesterday from days before. I feel the tone is similar, but some people said it wasnt. It could be. I mean, I dont think in terms of recession. I think in terms of getting it out, because when were finished with the virus, we will win. We will win, and when that victory takes place, our economys going to go through the roof. It is so pent up. It is so built up. It is so ready to go in an upward direction, but we have to knock out this enemy. This is a really tough enemy, but we have to knock out, all of us. Thats all of us. I dont think in terms of recession, not recession, its words. We have to knock out this and we will have an economy. I actually think well have an economy like weve never had before. Its all pent up. Did you have something say Mike?  Yes. In other words, reduce the number of people that die. Thats what were trying to do. When you do the steep curve, a lot of people are going to die. A lot of people. The worst ever, they say 1918, and I dont have to go into the numbers, but they were unbelievable numbers. Had they known and had they done what we had now, it wouldve been a very much different story. It would still be tragic, but it would have been a very much different. But that was the one that people write about. That was an incredible pandemic like we havent seen, but we have done something that, I hope, hopefully we will all have made the right moves. Were all in this together including you and we want to see fair press.  Ill tell you what its been, generally speaking, I think its been a great thing to see. Getting along with Democrats getting along with Republicans for the Democrats themselves. Theres been a lot of spirit. Theres been a lot of things happening that I havent seen happen in the first almost now three and a half years. Its been very nice to see. Thats one of the good things, but really the good thing is we have to knock it out. We have to win and we want to keep that slope as low as possible because thats a lot of lives in there. Lets go back there for somebody that didnt get one, please. Go ahead. Well, they need our product very badly. No, I havent received any. Good relationship with China. I have not received anything to that. No, we have a signed agreement. Theyre going to be buying and they have been buying a lot of product.  Yeah, please. Well, Ill know the point by speaking with Governor Cuomo and other governors, were going to know the points. Its going to be different for New York then its going to be for Iowa or from Idaho or from West Virginia, frankly, or for any. Its different. New York has got a big problem. The state of Washington has a big problem. California has some big problems. Everyones doing a good job, but were going to know when it will be.  I believe itll be more spot that it will be, its not going to be the whole thing. Its going to be spots. There are some hotspots that are in trouble, big trouble, and there are other areas that are in no trouble at all. They watch it on television. They dont know. Its just not affecting them. Theyre lucky. Theyre lucky. But there are areas of the country that dont have much of a problem and some that dont have any problem, theyre not going to have a problem with hospitals. But some areas like New York, California, state of Washington, theyre going to have some difficulty. When we see that coming, were going to be in there. Were already making preparation for it. Well, were looking at different things, John. I dont want to say exactly right now. China has been sending us everything we need but were looking at some alternatives. Yes, we are looking for alternatives.  And we have other places. Ireland does a lot of work for us. You know that. In that world, in the pharma world. A very tremendous producer and we are looking to bring a lot more back home.  Excuse me, you know me for a long time, Ive been talking about this for many years, long before I decided to run for president, Ive been talking about this. We have to be able to take care of our country and that was one of the many things on the list, so well be talking about it. But we are discussing it and Marco is very much involved and Peter is very much involved. A lot of people are involved. A lot of people feel that way. But well be discussing. Lets go, please. Not to the United States. Well, Canada has not closed it to the United States. Were working very closely with Canada. But they have not closed it. They have closed it to the world, but they have not closed it to the United States. I dont want to say that, but we are discussing things with Canada and were discussing things with Mexico, quite honestly. Again, the relationship is outstanding with both. Outstanding. We just signed our deal, USMCA, and the relationship is very strong.  Go ahead, please. Well, China was putting out information, which was false, that our military gave this to them. That was false. Rather than having an argument, I said I have to call it where it came from. It did come from China. I think its a very accurate term. But no, I didnt appreciate the fact that China was saying that our military gave it to them. Our military did not give it to anybody. No, I dont think so. No. I think saying that our military gave it to them creates a stigma.  Please. Well, were going to help. They need help. Look, lets face it. You know they go from having record-breaking years. This is the third year of record-breaking years. Travel and tourism, airlines, everything. They were doing record numbers, ordering new planes, building new hotels. Everything was really a hunky dory. Then one day we hear about this rumor in China and then we find out its much more than a rumor and then all of a sudden we make a great decision to close it up early. It would be a whole different world. It would be a whole different world, but we make a decision to close it up to China and all of a sudden tourism. Then we close it up to Europe, which people never heard of this before. Im not sure that thats ever been done. I know that when I made the decision to close it China people told me thats never been done before, but it was a great decision.  We make good decisions. Ill tell you my best decision. The people behind me are total pros. All over the world, theyre respected. Dr. Burks, Anthony, whos become a  Wheres Anthony. Hes become a major television star for all the right reasons. No, hes just so professional, so good. The people that we have working here have been incredible. Theyre totally respected.  The admiral has been incredible having to do with the testing. Incredible. Hes viewing this as testing also for the future. Were building a platform. When we took over this platform, first thing the admiral said was This was not designed for what were talking about. Millions of people. It wasnt.  Its nobodys fault. Its not like who could have ever predicted a thing like this? But we broke it down and its really going to be an incredible system. It is now a great system.  I just want to say these are incredible people standing behind me. Theyre the most respected in the world. Every country that youve mentioned today so far has called them and they call them all the time for advice. Theres nobody better than what we have. I dont know. I cant imagine. I can tell you hes doing a good job. Were very happy with him.  Please, you have it. Go ahead. Right. It wasnt about the payroll tax. Well, I didnt make a change. Were looking at payroll tax and were looking at various other forms of getting money to people. The payroll tax is something that Ive always liked. The problem is, it does take a period of time, months before they really see something. We dont really have months in terms of people living. You have people that work on tips. Its a large number of people. Who would think this, right? And they do nicely. They work very hard, but they work on tips. We have to take care of our people. We dont want to have people suffering during this period. It wasnt their fault that this thing all of a sudden was upon us. Were looking at various, were also looking at payroll tax. Its possible. Its also possible well do a percentage of payroll tax and then other things. But wed like to be able to get money to people. Were very lucky. Our countrys doing so well. We can do this and we can do it easily, but we have to do it. I have to say Mitch McConnell, if you look at Mitch and Kevin and the whole group and its been incredible how theyre reacting, how Congress is reacting, whether its the House or Senate, how theyre moving. Im talking about Democrats and Republicans, but weve had a tremendous leadership meetings and they want to see it done right, and they do want to go big.  I think going big is important. I dont think we want to go up there every day with a different idea, a different concept. Oh gee, lets worry about the airlines. Lets do this one. You have a big problem with the cruise ship industry. Its an industry that were setting all sorts of records two months ago. Then all of a sudden theres nobody on the ships. Okay? We have to help these. These are great industry. These are going to be taking care of people and passengers and for years to come and paying tremendous taxes, tremendous taxes for years to come. We have to make sure that this is done.  Yes, John? I only do that when I have to respond. I watched her on television. She said something that was false and therefore I did do that and I will continue to do that. If theyre not going to play fair because you know they have the media on their side. I dont. I just have me. If theyre not going to play fair, Im going to do that. If they are going to play fair, theres going to be nobody. Theres going to be nobody better than Donald Trump in terms of a bipartisanship. But if theyre going to say things that are false, like the story that was written yesterday. A lot of people, I dont know somebody, I think I know who, but they taped the conference call that I had with the governors. It was a good call. It was fine. I assume somebodys going to tape it. They handed it to various people and one of them was the New York Times and the New York Times chose to write totally inaccurately about it. It was a disgraceful thing. It was bad journalism, but they do a lot of bad journalism. But we respond to that, and actually people get it. People get it. No, I want it to be bipartisan and nobodys going to be better than me, but when they attack me or the people, these incredible people behind me, Im not going to let them get away with that. I cant do that.  Okay. How about one or two more questions? Go ahead, please. Please. Well, you can do a national lockdown. Hopefully, were not going to need that. We think of everything. I mean we have every idea that you mentioned weve thought of. Its a very big step. Thats a step that, I mean in one sense it would work. Its a very big step. Its something we talk about, but we havent decided to do that. Please, go ahead. I just dont think its going to be an action that were going to take. I dont think Ill talk, but Anthony, all of the people standing behind me, wed get together in a room plus some additionals and we would make a decision, but I dont think thats a step that were going to be taking.  One more question. You didnt have one, did you? Come on. Were looking at that. Were certainly looking at Boeing. Boeing got hit hard in many different ways. Boeing never had a problem for years. It was unthinkable what happened with respect to Boeing. Unthinkable. Probably I would consider it the greatest company in the world prior to a year ago. Now they get hit in 15 different ways and they have different management. Ive met the new people running Boeing. I think its going to be outstanding. But yeah, we have to protect Boeing. We have to absolutely help Boeing. They were doing a job. It was coming along well and then all of a sudden this hits. Obviously, when the airlines arent doing well, Boeings not going to be doing well, so well helping Boeing. Yeah. Thats what I heard. Im going to let Tony answer that question or whoevers best at answering that. But I do have to say, when you talk about politics, I watched the debate, not too exciting, but what they said about me, and weve done a great job when you talk about not being bipartisan, what they said about me. If you look at a swine flu, the whole thing in I guess it was 2009 and what they did and the mistakes theyve made, they were terrible. They were horrific mistakes. 17,000 people died. Ill be honest, they shouldnt be criticizing because weve done a fantastic job.  The only thing we havent done well is to get good press. Weve done a fantastic job, but it hasnt been appreciated. Even the closing down of the borders, which had never been done, and not only did we close them, but wed close them early. The press doesnt like writing about it. Weve done a poor job on press relationships. I guess I dont know who to blame for that. I dont know. Maybe I can blame ourselves for that? I will blame ourselves. But I think weve done a great job. I think weve done a poor job in terms of press relationship. But let me have somebody answer your question. Please. Good answer. Thats a good answer. Would you have something on that? Thats what I heard too. Number one, nothing was offered. Number two, it was a bad test. Otherwise, it was wonderful. Listen, thank you very much. No, he made a mistake. I assume that hell apologize for that mistake. Thank you all very much. Well be back."
"Well, thank you very much. We have the tourism industry executives, the biggest anywhere in the world. These are the great ones, and theyre going to say a couple of little words pretty soon, I think, well talk about their company quickly and the number of employees, and whats happened since the Chinese virus came about, and theyll be discussing that. So were join this afternoon by the true leaders of our nations travel, hospitality and tourism industries, and I want to thank you all for being here. Ive known many of you for a long time. Great people. I want to thank vice president Pence for his tremendous leadership on the task force. Hes done a great job, and thanks also to secretary Mnuchin over at the Hill. Theyve been working and Wilbur Ross, and everybody basically, theyre all working. Were all working very hard. Were profoundly grateful to all of the companies and organizations here today representing tens of thousands of American workers, and really representing something so important.  Its a place to stay when they come to our country. Such a big business. One of the biggest businesses. And thank you for adopting additional protocols to keep Americans healthy, including enhanced cleaning processes throughout your hotels and buildings. We know that your industry is among the hardest hit by the economic impact of the virus. Our goal is to beat the virus, and we will, we call it the hidden virus, the hidden enemy, with aggressive action now, so that we can rebound stronger than ever before, and thats what were doing. And everyones cooperating. Were really getting tremendous spirit, the Republicans are getting along with Democrats, and a lot of good things are happening. Yesterday we issued new guidelines for how all Americans can minimize their risk of exposure, and stop the transmission of the virus. My administration has taken decisive action to support American workers, and businesses. We love our workers. We love those workers. Theyre incredible. And were going to come out stronger than ever before, and its not going to be so long. The IRS will defer tax payments for effected individuals and businesses.  Today, the Senate has taken up legislation to provide for free testing, and thatll happen, paid sick and family medical leave and nutritional assistance for the vulnerable, were announcing, and we will be announcing again later on, that were working with Congress to provide rapid relief for affected workers in industries. And this will allow us to emerge from the strongest economy on earth, because we had literally the strongest economy on earth. And now this is in, as of last count, over 124 countries, I understand. 124 countries, unbelievable. But well emerge, I really believe well emerge stronger, because well be doing things differently than this countrys done them in the past for many, many decades. And were deeply committed to ensuring that small businesses have the support they require, the Small Business Administration announced disaster loans, which provide impacted businesses with up to $2 million. And weve asked Congress to increase the SBA lending authority. Were going to be going up to 50 billion, and actually much more than that for small businesses. So therell be help. In your cases, theyre very big businesses, but its a lot of employees, and so we appreciate it very much.  We appreciate your being here, and maybe in front of the media, you could say a couple of words about your companies, and the number of people that you employ. I pretty much know every one of you in that respect. Its a lot of people, and theyre great companies. Please. And tell me, so youre in many countries, and how are you doing in other countries? Some are in very, very bad shape. And thats pretty much all over the world. Well, well get it open soon and were doing a Yeomans effort. I think were going to be very successful. Youll be back in business soon. But we have to keep your employees going. And the businesses going. And we will be able to do that, Chris, thank you. But all over the world its a disaster. Yep. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you very much. With the banks. Yeah. Were dealing with the banks too. The banks have been very accommodating. They will be. I think they will be. Thank you David. Appreciate it. Please. How many hotel rooms now, worldwide? And this all started in China. Thats where you first saw the problem, and its where you first got hit. Hope you all heard that. Is China doing better now? 2%. In Macau? So that means its coming. Were in the process. We havent hit that top yet, were in the process. Thank you Arne. Thank you. Yep, we will. Okay, give us those suggestions. Yeah. To what? Okay. So its individual properties instead of accumulated primaries. Okay, I got it. Thank you very much. Thank you Patrick. You have some of the sports leagues right? You have quite a few. Yeah, I would think so. When this ends, do you see a quick buildup? Hopefully you can retain them. Thats what were shooting for. You want to retain them. What kind of a fund would that be? In terms of dollars. I got it. I think so too. I think so too. Thank you very much. Hi Jim. We couldnt get you a chair? What happened? I think so. Okay, well get it done here. Well get it done. Is that what you like the best of the various scenarios? Most direct, not as quick, but most direct. Thank you. Let me ask you, the parks outside of the United States- Closed? You closed all of the parks, everything. Closed. Thats a real worldwide problem, isnt it? Thats incredible. You guys okay? Yes, please. But theyll come back as we age a little bit, right? Yeah, I think so. May come back fast. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you. Please. Thats all being figured now, and were also helping industries like Boeing, we have to help Boeing, we have to help the airline industry. It wasnt their fault. This wasnt their fault, and we will do that. Well be doing that. So were adding it up. Itll be fine. Itll come back very quickly once were finished with our war with the virus. Theyve done it in smaller amounts, yeah. Well, it can definitely afford it. The question is, do we want to go through payroll, and do what we want to do. There are four other ways of doing it, and thats what were determining, along with the Senate right now. Senate and House, were all working on this together. Thank you all very much. Well, the message is that this was something that happened. Its nobodys fault. It happened. And were going to take care of it. Well be bigger, stronger, better than ever before, and it wont take that long. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much. I would like to begin by announcing some important developments in our war against the Chinese virus. Well be invoking the defense production act just in case we need it. In other words, I think you all know what it is and it can do a lot of good things if we need it and we will have it all completed signing it in just a little while. Right after Im finished with this conference, Ill be signing it. Its prepared to go. So we will be invoking the Defense Production Act. Last week I signed an emergency declaration under the Stafford Act, which is we invoked previously and which activated FEMA National Response Coordination Center, FEMA is fully engaged at the highest levels.  Today FEMA is activated in every region. We are at level one, level one being the highest level which we will work with and weve been working with FEMA. Ive done a lot of work with FEMA. Theyre incredible. Its always been on hurricanes or tornadoes. There right now in Tennessee, a large group working in Tennessee have been incredible. It was tragic event Alabama last year, also a tornado and then obviously the numerous hurricanes in different locations that were in some cases very devastating and in every case FEMA came through. This is a very different kind of work for FEMA, but they will come through as they always do.  We have tremendous people, tremendous talent in FEMA. Were sending upon request the two hospital ships, theyre being prepared right now. Theyre massive ships. Theyre the big white ships with the red cross on the sides. One is called The Mercy and the other is called The Comfort and they are in tiptop shape. They soon will be. Theyre getting ready to come up to New York. I spoke with governor Cuomo about it. Hes excited about it. We havent made the final determination as to where its going to go on the West coast. The Comfort is located now in San Diego and its going to be Well be picking the destination fairly shortly, so those two ships are being prepared to go and they can be launched over the next week or so depending on need.  Earlier this week, the first clinical trial of the vaccine candidate for the virus began in Washington state, as you probably know. The genetic sequence of the virus was first published in January, but thanks to the unprecedented partnership between the FDA, NIH, and the private sector, weve reached human trials for the vaccine just eight weeks later. Its a record by many, many months. It used to take years to do this and now we did it just in a very short while. Thats the fastest development in history of what were doing with regard to the vaccine and making very, very big progress.  Today I can announce further steps to expand testing capacity. Were working with several groups to determine if the self swab a much easier process than the current process. Thats a not very nice to do. I can tell you because I did it. But we have a current process thats a little bit difficult. If you havent done. The groups are working on determining if a self swab by an individual is as effective as the other. The others very effective, very accurate but were going to see if we can do a self swab which would be a lot more popular. I can tell you that. So and that would be administered also by a health official but it would be a lot easier to do. The fact is that the health professionals would It would free up a lot. Let me just say the self swab is what it is. Its a self swab. You do it yourself.  The other has to be issued by a health professional and its something that is quite difficult and we think its working out for the self swab. If it would test positive that people would go and they would do what they have to do, but we think thats probably working out. Ive asked the FDA to cut through the red tape and reduce regulatory barriers. We are looking at some very exciting things and Im going to be holding the second news conference either today. Were going to talk about the FDA. Some things are happening that are quite exciting and were going to be doing that either later today or tomorrow, fairly early tomorrow. So well see what happens. But the FDA, my instructions is Ive been working very, very hard on a number of developments and well be discussing that with you later today or tomorrow.  This afternoon Ill be meeting with nurses on the front lines of the battle against the virus. Theyre truly American heroes. They want to get it done. Theyre incredible people. So were going to be meeting with nurses and I actually look forward to that. Very brave. Theyre taking a lot of risk and they have done an incredible job and they never complain.  Today Im also announcing that the department of housing and urban development is providing immediate relief to renters and homeowners by suspending all foreclosures and evictions until the end of April. So were working very closely with Dr. Ben Carson and everybody from HUD. Every generation of American has been called to make shared sacrifices for the good of the nation.  In World War II young people in their teenage years volunteered to fight. They wanted to fight so badly because they love our country. Workers refuse to go home and slept in factory floors to keep assembly lines running. The numbers of ships that they built during World War II to this day has never Nothing like that has ever been equal. They were doing ships literally on a daily basis. Nobodys ever seen anything like it and to this day nobody seen anything like that. What they were able to do during World War II and now its our time. We must sacrifice together because we are all in this together and well come through together.  We are all in this together and well come through together. Its the invisible enemy. Thats always the toughest enemy, the invisible enemy, but we are going to defeat the invisible enemy. I think were going to do it even faster than we thought and it will be a complete victory. Itll be a total victory.  So well have a second conference, again having to do with the FDA on this. I think its going to be potentially a very exciting news conference and we will do it as quickly as we can, so whether its today or tomorrow. And Ill, with that, ask, Mike Pence to say a few words and thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dr. Birks, please. Thank you, Deborah, very much. Mark, please. Thank you very much, Mark. Seema, please. Thank you very much. Robert, please. Thank you very much, Robert. Thank you. Thank you, all. Thats very nice. Any questions, please? Go. No. Well, I dont agree with that. Yeah. No, I dont agree. Thats a absolute total worst case scenario. But no, we dont look at that at all. Were nowhere near it. Because it comes from China. Its not racist at all. No, not at all. It comes from China, thats why. It comes from China. I want to be accurate. Yeah, please, John. I have great love for all of the people from our country. But as you know, China tried to say at one point, maybe theyve stopped now, that it was caused by American soldiers. That cant happen. Its not going to happen, not as long as Im president. It comes from China. John, please. Yes. Yep. We do have. We have tremendous numbers of ventilators, but there has never been an instance like this where no matter what you have, its not enough. That would be the case. Its being signed. Its essentially drawn and Im going to sign it in just a little while. If we need to use it, well be using it at full speed ahead. Well, were going to know whether or not urgent, but we will Yeah, we do have targets. We have targets for certain pieces of equipment. We have targets for masks, you know, the masks, the numbers of masks are incredible. Weve ordered millions of them, but we need millions more. A thing like this has never been requested. Weve never had to even think in terms of these numbers, but we need millions of masks and all of that will be ordered. We need respirators. We need, ventilators is a big thing because its a complex piece of equipment. So we have a lot of ventilators, but were going to be ordering more. To be determined. Were working with the Senate right now. Were working with everybody on Capitol Hill. There has been tremendous There really has been. I mean, with some exceptions obviously because its always the way it is. They have been getting along very well, Republicans and Democrats. Its a nice thing, very bipartisan, and so forth. Well, were going to see. I dont want to get into that right now, John. We are looking at different numbers. Were looking at timing. That would be different, splitting the time, splitting the payments. Were looking at a lot of different things. It hasnt been determined yet, but it will shortly be determined and people want to go big as opposed Everybody seems to want to go big and they want to get to the recovery. The big thing we can do is get rid of this horrible, I call it the unseen, the unseen enemy, you call it. There is a thousand different terms for it. It snuck up on us. It did 128 countries, I think. Its in something like that, very close to that. Think of that, so it spreads violently. Its a very contagious, very, very contagious virus. I do. I actually do. Im looking at it that way because, you know, if it got out of control. The big thing we did was a very early stoppage of people coming in who could be very, very heavily infected. It was a very good move and it was very early, very, very early when most people, including a lot of professionals, they didnt want us to do it. That really saved a lot of lives. And yeah, I look at it. I view it as a, in a sense, a wartime president. I mean, thats what were fighting. Its a very tough situation. You have to do things. You have to close parts of an economy that six weeks ago were the best theyve ever been. We had the best economy weve ever had. And then one day, you have to close it down in order to defeat this enemy. But, were doing it and were doing it well. And Ill tell you, the American people have been incredible, for the most part, theyve been really incredible. Yeah, please, . Sure. Well, you know, hospitals are supposed to have ventilators too. And when we have thousands of ventilators, it sounds like a lot, but this is a very unforeseen thing. Nobody ever thought of these numbers. Nobody ever saw numbers like this, even with regard to testing. Normally, we wouldnt be doing testing and they decided to do it, very, very hard to ramp up. Now, were getting highly sophisticated tests and its going very well. But, nobody has ever heard of testing in the kind of quantities that youre talking about. Well, we knew. It depends. It depends on how it goes. Worst case, absolutely, a best case, not at all, so were going to have to see where it goes. But we are ordering thousands and thousands of ventilators and theyre complex. You know, these are complex machines. But, were ordering them. Does anybody have a, Mike maybe you do, how many do we have? Please. Yeah, please. Do you know the number? We can give you that exact number. Well give it to you. But were ordering a lot more. Yeah, go ahead in the back, yes. Yeah, one second. One second, Kaitlin. Well do it in a second. Youll be able to do it. Yes. No, I said not yet. I spoke with the prime minister, Trudeau, a very good relationship obviously between us and our two countries and no tipping point. Its just that we want to isolate from the standpoint we dont want people coming into contact because thats the way were going to win this war. That is so important and we both thought it was time.  Now its not affecting trade. Its non-essential. Its non-essential crossings. It wont affect trade at all. And it was just something we thought would be good for both countries. Yes, please. . Go ahead, please. Well, theyre doing it in a very careful manner. You can only be vigilant and very professional. Its not pertaining at this moment to trade between the two countries. Yeah, please. It could be. It could be. And were also playing with a lot of numbers, a lot of very big numbers and a lot of very small numbers, frankly. We want to take care, we have to help everybody. It was nobodys fault this happened. I mean, some people could say it was somebodys fault actually, but it was nobodys fault. And certainly none of these companies that all of a sudden had no passengers in planes and had no passengers on cruise ships and all of the things that have happened. But I will say that, they cant be blamed for this. And we want to keep those companies vibrant because its, there is going to be a comeback very, very quickly as soon as this is solved. And it will be solved. We will win. And there will be a comeback and itll take place very quickly. Well, I dont want to say that because its a moving Every number that you mentioned, yes, weve talked about those numbers. Were also moving those numbers in both directions, so well let you know. Its moving along fast.  What directions, so well let you know. Its moving along fast. Again, theres a great bipartisan effort going on that I havent really seen before to this extent. No. Theyre looking at it. Its down the line, and theyre looking at it very seriously. And I think it would be a great thing, because the others, to use a nice word, its very inconvenient. Its very tough. Well, I think were doing a really good job. We started off with a termination of the border, the people coming in from China where this all started. That meant I took it very seriously. And when I use the word calm, calm doesnt mean that Im not taking it seriously, and we should be calm. We should be extremely calm. But yeah, 95% within the Republican party and over 50%, and, also, we have very great approval numbers. People like the job that were doing. And when you compare this to other epidemics, or if you want to use a different term, you can, but within this country, and you look at whats happened over the years, this is being handled very, very professionally.  We have the greatest professionals in the world. Were doing a good job. Nobodys ever been swamped like this, and nothings been so contagious. The level of contagion has been incredible, actually. Nobodys seen anything quite like this.  Yeah, Peter, go ahead. Ill let Mike answer that. Youd have to ask them that question. No, I wouldnt say so, but perhaps thats been the story of life. That does happen on occasion, and Ive noticed where some people have been tested fairly quickly. Look, we inherited a very- Excuse me, excuse me. We inherited a very obsolete system. This was a system that was out of date, obsolete, or it was a system that was never meant to take care of the kind of quantity, the number of people that were talking about. Millions and millions of people. If you go back in years past, like even recently with the flu, nobody had tests before. They didnt test the entire nation to see whether or not they had flu. They got the flu, they got better. Hopefully they got better. That was it. Now all of a sudden, they do this very complex testing.  What weve done is we broke it down. We broken up the system, but it was obsolete and/or you could say it was also a system that just wasnt meant to handle the kind of volume that youre talking about. Weve rebuilt it into a system that, for the future, will be a very good system if you want to go this route. But this was never done before, and I would imagine it will be done in the future, but we built it into a very good system by using private companies, the great private companies. And I have to say Roche has been doing a very good job. Theyre doing a lot of work, a very good job.  But this was an obsolete system. This was not a system that was meant to do anything like this or even near this.  John? Who heads that group? Those countries do, probably. Go check. I know, Im sure of free trade Look, Chinas paying us billions and billions of dollars in tariffs, and theres no reason to do that. They havent even spoken to me about that. China hasnt asked me to do that, but were getting billions of dollars a year from tariffs from China, and I cant imagine Americans asking for that. But it could be that China will ask for a suspension or something. Well see what happens. Chinas having a very rough time. They have their worst year in 76 years as I understand it. Theyre having a very, very tough time. And then on top of it, this happened with the virus.  But no, were taking in billions of dollars a year in tariffs. And this was caused by something totally unrelated to tariffs. The answer is yes. Very soon. Probably today, yes. Well, I think essential is medical. We have military working together. We have industry working together. And again, its not affecting trade. So things like that, but just leisurely, lets go to a restaurant and have dinner, which a lot of people do. They come both ways. They go in both directions, that kind of thing, we have ended on a temporary basis. Yeah, please go ahead. Not close it. No, were not going to close it, but we are invoking a certain provision that will allow us great latitude as to what we do.  Please. Yeah, go ahead. You know what? Go ahead. Sure.  Doctor. Go ahead. No, I havent seen the article. We are making a lot of progress therapeutically. I will say that, but I have not seen that article, no.  Go ahead. There were certain industries that people know. The airlines would be number one if you look at whats going on. They go from having the best year theyve ever had to having no passengers because of what weve had to do in order to win this war. Its a war, and so basically, you know what many of the industries are. What we want to do is we want to make sure they all stay together so that after the war is won, we can immediately go right back up to where we were and even beyond. I think were going to go beyond where we were, and a lot of people are saying that by the way. Were poised to do that, but we have to win the war first.  Yeah, please go ahead. Were talking about all of it. Havent detailed it yet. We have detailed it to senators and to members of the House. We have been talking about it, and were coming up with numbers. Havent gotten there yet, but certainly hotel industry, the cruise ship industry, the airlines. Those are all prime candidates. Absolutely. Which border? I would say 30 days, and hopefully at the end of 30 days, well be in great shape.  Jeff, please. Well, I think my earlier comments are to be calm. I do want people to be calm, because were going to win this. And were going to win it, its just a question of time ,and I want it to go quickly. So based on the fact that I want it to go quickly, I hope they just listened to what weve been saying over the last period of time. We dont want them gathering. And I see they do gather, including on beaches and including in restaurants, young people. They dont realize. They are feeling invincible. I dont know if you felt invincible when you were very young, but they were feeling totally invincible, or are feeling that way, but they dont realize that they can be carrying lots of bad things home to grandmother and grandfather and even their parents. So we want them to heed the advice. We made the advice, and I think its getting through. I do believe its getting through.  Jim, please. If theyre what? Well I think I just said it. Heed the advice. I just said. Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Peter. Not think. No, no, I dont think, I know where it came from. I dont know if youd say Chinas to blame. Certainly, we didnt get an early run on it. It would have been helpful if we knew about it earlier, but it comes from China, and its not a question about that. Nobodys questioning that. Well, I have a lot of respect for Tom Cotton, and I know exactly what hes been saying. And there are those people that say that. So well see what happens. Thank you.  .  Its your turn. Go ahead.  .  Please. Hes been waiting a long time, please. Youve had your hand up so nicely for a long. Its your time. Yeah, Im not happy to see it. I have my own disputes with all three of those media groups. I think you know that very well, but I dont like seeing that at all. Im not happy about that at all.  Yes, please. No, I dont believe theyre inflicting. I think they could have given us a lot earlier notice, absolutely. Please. Who are you asking of that question, because I see that theyre very high. If you look, Im 95% of the Republican party. We just had a poll that was done by a very reputable group. Were beating sleepy Joe Biden by a lot in Florida, the state of Florida, and in other states. So I dont really know who youre talking about.  Jennifer, go ahead, please. Please. I did, and they explained to me where theyre coming from. They went from, as I said, full planes packed, the best year theyve ever had by far to, boom, one day empty because of what we have to do to win this war, or we would have a level of death like people havent seen before. So theyve been fantastic. Theyve been great, but they went from being extremely happy to being people that are running companies that are going to need some help, and well help them, Jennifer. Its going. Theres a lot of influx to those loans, as you could imagine. A lot of people are looking at it, but were going to be increasing funding a lot, and theyre very well prepared to do what they have to do. And the SBA is doing a fantastic job. She is doing a really good job, the administrator.  John? , go ahead. Go ahead in the back, please. Go ahead, please. No, were not seeing that at all. I wonder who said that. You know who said that? Say the term again. No. No, no. I think they probably would agree with it 100%. It comes from China. Theres nothing not to agree.  How about last question, please? Please, go ahead. My message is to all Americans, but to those Americans who are going through a lot, we love them. Were with them and we will not let them down. Thank you all very much."
"Thank you very much. I think this is going to be a very important conference and Ill get to that toward the middle, but I have a few things to report and a want to thank you all for being here and I have to say I think with social distancing that the media has been much nicer. I dont know what it is. All these empty, these in-between chairs  You probably shouldnt have anybody sitting behind you either. You should probably go back, but I love it. Its so much nicer, but I shouldnt say that because youll get me now. Thank you all for being here, and we continue our relentless effort to defeat the Chinese virus. Before I begin, I want to start by announcing that today we are bringing home another American citizen. It was a big thing, very big. Amer Fakhoury is on his way back to the United States after being imprisoned in Lebanon since September of 2019. Hes battling late stage cancer.  Mr. Fakhoury will now be able to receive the much needed care and treatment in the United States. Weve been working very hard to get him freed, and hes finally able to have his entire family at his side, so Im very grateful to the Lebanese government. They worked with us and we are very proud of his family. They stood by him so strongly and they are thrilled. The United States has no higher priority than the safety and wellbeing of our citizens. Weve gotten a tremendous number of hostages out, as you know. I think were 42 and O, and Robert OBrien, as you know, was our chief negotiator for a large part of it. In fact, did so well that now we have him in a different position. So I want to thank and congratulate Robert and his team and I want to let everyone know that recovering Americans held captive and imprisoned abroad continues to be a top priority for my administration. We have one young gentlemen, Austin Tice, and were working very hard with Syria to get him out. We hope the Syrian government will do that, and we are counting on them to do that. Weve written a letter just recently that hes been there for a long time and was captured long ago. Austin Tice, his mothers probably watching, and shes a great lady and were doing the best we can. So Syria, please work with us and we would appreciate you letting him out. If you think about what weve done, weve gotten rid of the ISIS caliphate in Syria. Weve done a lot for Syria. We have to see if theyre going to do this. So it would be very much appreciated if they would let Austin Tice out immediately. As you know, my administration is working every day to protect American people and the American economy from the virus. Yesterday I signed into law a critical support for American workers, families and small businesses.  Its a big thing. Were providing sick leave and family medical leave to those affected by the virus, and more help is on the way as we speak. Our entire team headed by Secretary Mnuchin is on the Hill. Were working with Democrats and Republicans and theres a lot of good will going on. This was something that happened that was  Some people would say an act of God. I dont view it as an act of God. I would view it as something that just surprised the whole world. And if people wouldve known about it could have been stopped in place. It could have been stopped where it came from, China. If we would have known about it, if they would have known about it, but now the whole world almost is inflicted with this horrible  With this horrible virus, and its too bad  Its too bad because we never had an economy as good as the economy we had just a few weeks ago, but well be back and I actually think well be back stronger than ever before, because we learned a lot during this period of time.  I also just invoked the Defense Production Act to help facilitate distribution of essential supplies if necessary. Were working with Congress to provide major additional relief to the workers, small businesses, and the hardest hit industries. We want to make sure that everybody is able to continue on so that when we recover all of these companies and these great businesses, both very, very small and very, very large, theyre not going to be broken up and youd have to put them back together. That would take a long time because we really believe in  I believe in the V curve. I believe its going to go  When this is defeated, this hidden scourge is defeated, I think were going to go up very rapidly our economy and get back to where it was and beyond. Today, I want to share with you exciting progress that the FDA is making with the private sector as we slash red tape like nobody has ever done it before.  Somebody was on yesterday, on one of the networks and said that theres never been a president at even close thats been able to do what Ive done in slashing all of the red tape and everything to get very important things to the market medical. So we slashed red tape to develop vaccines and therapies as fast as it can possibly be done, long before anybody else was even thinking about doing this. And as you know, earlier this week we began the first clinical trial of a vaccine candidate for the virus, and that was launched in record time. It was just a few weeks, and that would have taken years to do not so long ago. As we race to develop a vaccine, were also pursuing antiviral therapies and thats what really were going to be talking to you about today. Thats the purpose of being up here today, and to me thats even more important.  Vaccine by its nature, you have to have long tests because you have to make sure what goes into somebodys body is not going to do destruction, do bad things. So you need long tests, and theyre doing great with the vaccines, but its still a long process. But the therapies and something we can move on much faster potentially. And the treatments that will be able to reduce the severity or duration of the symptoms and make people better. Essentially were looking at things to make people better or at the very earliest stages, they wouldnt even know they had it. And thats where I believe its going to work even the best. The FDA commissioner, Steven Hahn, whos with us, hes fantastic, and he has been working 24 hours a day. Hes been  Hes worked probably as hard or harder than anybody in the group, other than maybe Mike Pence or me.  What the FDA is doing is incredible. Theyve done things in times that were not even thinkable. And Ive directed the FDA to eliminate outdated rules and bureaucracy so this work can proceed rapidly, quickly, and I mean fast. And we have to remove every barrier. There were a lot of barriers that were unnecessary, and theyve done that to get the rapid deployment of safe, effective treatments, and we think we have some good answers. Well find out very, very soon. Clinical trials are already underway for many new therapies and were working on scaling these to allow many more Americans to access different drugs that have shown really good promise. Weve had some really good promise. We will do so in a way that lets us continue to collect good data, to know which medicines are safe, and which medicines are working the best. We have a couple that were in really good shape on, and thats for immediate delivery, immediate. Like as fast as we can get it.  The FDA has also approved compassionate use for a significant number of patients. You know what that means. Were also reviewing drugs that are approved abroad or drugs approved here for other uses. And one of the things that Im most proud of that I got was right to try. Thats where somebody whos ill, somebody whos very sick, terminally ill, usually. In past administrations, we signed this a year and a half ago, you wouldnt be able to even think about getting any of the drugs that may be showing great promise now. And theyve been trying for many decades to get this approved. And it sounds simple, but its not because theres liability involved and lots of other things. And I was able to get it approved, working with Congress, right to try. This is beyond right to try. What were talking about today is beyond right to try. Right to try has been, by the way, a tremendous success.  People are living now that had no chance of living where we take treatments that would  Things that would have to go through years of a process. And if somebody was terminally ill and I would say, Why wouldnt they be able to try this? Theyd go to Asia, theyd go to Europe, theyd go all over the world to try and find something. Or some people, if they had no money, would go home to die. Theyd go home to die. They had no hope. Right to try has been an incredible success, but this is beyond right to try. If treatments known to be safe in Europe, Japan or other nations are effective against a virus, well use that information to protect the health and safety of American people. Nothing will stand in our way as we pursue any Avenue to find what best works against this horrible virus. Now, a drug called chloroquine, and some people would add to it, hydroxy, hydroxychloroquine, so chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine.  Now, this is a common malaria drug. Its also a drug used for strong arthritis. Somebody who has pretty serious arthritis also uses this in a somewhat different form, but it is known as a malaria drug and its been around for a long time and its very powerful. But the nice part is its been around for a long time, so we know that if it  If things dont go as planned, its not going to kill anybody. When you go with a brand new drug, you dont know that thats going to happen. You have to see and you have to go long test. But this has been used in different forms, very powerful drug in different forms and its shown very encouraging, very, very encouraging early results, and were going to be able to make that drug available almost immediately. And thats where the FDA has been so great. Theyve gone through the approval process, its been approved, and they did it. They took it down from many, many months to immediate.  So were going to be able to make that drug available by prescription or states  I spoke with governor Cuomo about it at great length last night and he wants to be right on  He wants to be first on the line. And so I think thats a tremendous  Theres tremendous promise based on the results and other tests. Theres tremendous promise. And normally the FDA would take a long time to approve something like that and it was approved very, very quickly and its now approved by prescription. Individual states will handle it, they can handle it, doctors will handle it. And I think its going to be great. Then were quickly studying this drug and while were continuing to study it, but the studying is going to be also done in  As its given out to large groups of people, perhaps in New York and other places.  Well study it there. There are promising therapies produced by Gilead, and thats remdesivir, remdesivir, and thats a drug used for other purposes thats been out, and its had very good results for other purposes, but it seems to have a very good result having to do with this virus, and that drug also has been approved or very close to approved, in that case, by the FDA, and I cant tell you how much we appreciate what the FDA, these people are incredible patriots and the job that Stephen Hahn is doing, Dr. Hahn, whos one of the most respected doctors in the country by the way, where we took him  I said, You sure you want to do this? Now we didnt know that this was going to be in the playlist of what happened here. But he really has stepped up to the plate, wherever you are.  Where is he? You really have. Id shake his hand, but Im not supposed to do that. Get in a lot of trouble if I did that, but hes been fantastic and I thank you doctor. Hes going to speak right after Im finished. So Regeneron, again, is a company thats done fantastically well as I understand with Ebola and some other things, great company and theyre looking at some very promising events also. So you have remdesivir and you have a hydroxychloroquine. So those are two that are out now, essentially approved for prescribed use. And I think its going to be very exciting. I think it could be a game changer, and maybe not and maybe not, but I think it could be, based on what I see, it could be a game changer. Very powerful. Theyre very powerful.  So I want every American to know that were doing everything we can and these actions are important next steps. I mean, for the FDA to act the way they acted with this kind of speed is an incredible thing. Normally theyd say, Well, we can have it by next year or we can have it by in two years from now. You understand, this is the way. Normally its like years and years and years, they had it immediately. Based on the fact that its been used for other things. Totally unrelated things. We believe these therapeutics and others under evaluation right now will be able to provide relief to many Americans. We really hope thats going to be, this could be a tremendous breakthrough, tremendous breakthrough, and we will work toward a much needed vaccine in the future, as I said, and what were doing with the FDA is so exciting and so many other fields, so many things are happening.  Its a very exciting time for medicine, and we appreciate that the American public has pulled together, theyre really staying home and I think theres tremendous spirit in this country right now. Its spirit like a lot of people have not seen. People have not seen anything like it for a long time. And that means Democrat, Republican, theyre pulling together. I hope everythings going good on the hill. Maybe I shouldnt say this until I check out whats going on, because you never know. But I think theres a great spirit where the Democrats, the Republicans and everybody else, theyre getting together, theyre trying to get things done. But most importantly, the American public has been incredible. We took the best economy weve ever had and we said, Stop. You cant work. You have to stay home. Theres never been a case like this. Normally you pay a lot of money to get things going.  Heres a case where were paying a lot of money to stop things because we dont want people to be together so that this virus doesnt continue onward. So theres never been anything like this in history. Theres never been it, nobodys ever seen anything like this. But were doing the right thing, we have to get rid of, and our big war, its not a financial war, its a war  Its a medical war. We have to win this war. Its very important. With that, Id like to just introduce Dr. Steven Hahn and he, again, Id like to send back with Steven our thanks to all of the people working in the FDA who are fantastic, talented people. We appreciate it very much. Everything youve done, especially the speed that you got, these two elements, these two very important drugs passed. Thank you very much. Thank you, doctor. Thank you very much. Mike, talk about the masks. Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Doctor, please. Thank you, doctor, very much. Jerome, please. Thank you, Jerome. Yeah, please. Go ahead, John. Well, we dont want that. In fact, some companies, as you know, did stock buy backs and I was never happy with that. Its very hard to tell them not to, but I would tell them not to. I would say, I dont like it for that reason. Some did and it turned out that they could have waited a long time and it would have been much better off if they didnt. We can. We can. I mean, it takes many, many people in this case to tango. But as far as Im concerned, that conditions like that would be okay with me. John. Yeah. No, because we hope were not going to need that. First of all, governors are supposed to be doing a lot of this work and they are doing a lot of this work. The federal government is not supposed to be out there buying vast amounts of items and then shipping. Were not a shipping clerk. The governors are supposed to be, as with testing, the governors are supposed to be doing it. Well help out and well help out wherever we can. And we can buy in volume and in some cases, great volume with the masks as an example, which were really a problem. We have helped out and theyre right now millions of masks being made. But, this is really for the local governments, the governors and people within the state depending on the way they divided it up. And theyll do that, and theyre doing a very good job of it.  Where you have a problem with ventilators, were working very hard trying to find Nobody in their wildest dreams would have ever thought that wed need tens of thousands of ventilators. This is something thats very unique to this, to what happened. Well, if we were desperately in need of something and we, frankly will know about that very shortly, we want to be ahead of it. We dont want to do it as it happens, but before it happens. Were going to know a lot over the next two or three days. Well know a lot. No, Im not, but were trying to find that out. This has been going on for years. Many years theyve been trying to find Austin Tice. He was in Syria, as you know. His mother is an incredible woman and Im doing it for him, but Im doing it for his mother. His mother is an incredible woman who is desperate to find her son. And Im not confirming a lot, but if he is alive, we would like very much to get him back quickly. Well, I havent seen that, but I will let Mike answer that question. Vice President. How many masks are being made and when will they be ready, or at least we start getting them ready? Some of that had to do with the liability in the company. They had a big problem with liability and much of it had to do with the liability to the company. Were looking at that issue directly with them. And thats a separate issue, but were looking at that issue very directly. Well, were going to do our best on it, but were working with Democrats and Republicans on that. Were looking at that very specifically. Yeah. I hope very soon. Well see. This is uncharted territory, as you know. We think we have ideas and does it help to say what the idea are? I would hope very soon. Weve pulled together as a nation. People are, for the most part, doing what theyre supposed to be doing. The social distancing is very interesting. A whole new term thats become a hot, its become somewhat of a hot term, but people are listening and theyre really doing a great job. This country is an amazing country. I think youre up to 141 different countries right now, so its very uncharted territory.  It could have been stopped. It could have been stopped pretty easily if we had known, if everybody had known about it a number of months before people started reading about it. Excuse me, excuse me. Before we started reading about it, we could have, it could have been stopped in its tracks. Unfortunately, they didnt decide to make it public, but the whole world is suffering because of it. We were very prepared. The only thing we werent prepared for was the media. The media has not treated it fairly. Ill tell you how prepared I was, I called for a ban from people coming in from China long before anybody thought it was In fact, it was your network, I believe they called me a racist because I did that. It was many of the people in the room, they call me racist and other words because I did that because I went so early. So when you say we werent prepared, had I let these tens of thousands of people come in from China a day, we would have had something right now that would have been, you wouldnt have even recognized it compared to where we are.  How many people have passed away? How many people have died as of this moment? You could multiply that by a factor of many, many, many. So when you say that I wasnt prepared, I was the first one to do the ban. Now other countries are following what I did, but the media doesnt acknowledge that. They know its true. They know its true, but they dont want to write about it. Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. Sure. Governors are supposed to get it. The States are supposed to get it. But were helping the States. Well. Look, for years they bought them and now all of a sudden theyre coming to-  the federal government. Were working with the States. Were working with the governors. Were working with everybody. The relationships are great. One of the things that happened this morning, I spoke with Micky Arison of Carnival Cruise Lines and hes going to make ships available. So in addition to the big medical ships that you have coming, if we should need ships with lots of rooms, theyll be docked at New York and Los Angeles and San Francisco and different places. So I want to thank Micky Arison, and thats Carnival Cruise Line. Ive done it. Yeah. If we find that we need something that we will do that. And you dont know what weve done. You dont know whether or not weve ordered. You dont know if weve invoked it. You dont know whats been ordered and whats not been ordered. I can only tell you that as an example, masks, nobody ever heard of the number of masks thats been ordered and theyre being made now and many are available now. But people, I think in the media probably dont know that. Go ahead, behind him. I cannot explain a gap. Im hearing very good things on the ground and were dealing with Look, they had a ramp up. They had an obsolete system and they had a system simultaneously that was not meant for this. It wasnt meant for this. Nobody knew thered be a pandemic or an epidemic of this proportion. Nobody has ever seen anything like this before.  I can tell you that what were doing is were working with local governments, with States, governors, even mayors on getting them to be able to get what they need and the system is starting to work out very well. But we had to break a system, like breaking an egg because the system we had was obsolete and didnt work and that was a system we inherited. And now, we have something thats really been very good and certainly going to be great for the future too. Yeah, . Well, we dont want to pick winners and losers. We want everybody to benefit. We want, I think more than anything else, the workers to benefit. And sometimes for the worker to benefit, you have to go through the company because they have thousands of workers. And if the company goes out of business, no fault of their own, those workers arent going to be able to receive a check.  Look, our ultimate goal are the people. Our ultimate goal are the great people of this country and we will have things worked out, I think that are going to be very well. Its a very complex formula, you understand that. Its very complex, but its working out. I think its going to be very well. I think were going to have pretty uniform support for it. Please. Were speaking with the State Department later. I cant say right now because I havent had the meeting yet. Oh, please. Jeff. I can only tell you on the 14th day and well have to see. Well have indications later on. I think they actually are doing a lot. I mean, I know New York is working very diligently, been very strong. I assume San Francisco is one of the areas and Los Angeles and the state of Washington, obviously. Thats one that has to be up there. Theyre all working very hard to quarantine or words just about the equivalent of quarantine. We are and were using the medical term of telemedicine, and its been incredibly busy and really what people dont have to I mean, some people cant do it anyway. They cant get up. They cant see a doctor. But were using this and its been tele-health, different names, and I will tell you that its been really successful and its helped a lot of people out where they dont have to and they cant. And even from a safety reason, if they are positive, if they are feeling poorly, they cant do it, or we dont want them transmitting anything to anybody else.  All right, John. Well, it wouldve been much better if we had known about this a number of months earlier. It could have been contained to that one area in China where it started. And certainly the world is paying a big price for what they did and the world is paying a very big price for not letting them come out. Everybody knows that. We all know that. As far as believing what theyre putting out now, I hope its true. Who knows? But I hope its true.  Big difference. I dont want to comment on that right now. Yeah, please. Worst case scenario you would have terrible job numbers. If we can get this thing wrapped up and finished earlier things will go very nicely. One of the things theyre working, as you know, one of the elements that is being worked on very much so in the Hill is to keep the jobs going so that when we do get rid of the virus, were going to be able to just really, I think, go like a rocket. I think the economys going to be fantastic. Now, when he said that he was using that as the ultimate bad outcome. I dont think anybody believes thats going to happen.  Go ahead. You. I know all of them, and I dont know if theyre sitting like you people are sitting. Youre actually sitting too close. Really we should probably get rid of about another 75, 80% of you. Ill have just two or three that I like in this room. I think thats a great way of doing it. We just figured a new way of doing it. But youre actually much too close. You two, you should leave immediately. But, look, I know all of them. They tested positive. Hopefully theyre all going to get better. And its one of those things. Its Congress. Its one of those things. Well, I dont think theyre going to the Hill. I mean, I know some where they tested positive, theyre in quarantine. I know Lindsey and many others, they didnt test, but until they got the result, they put themselves in quarantine. A number of people in Congress right now are in quarantine. They dont know the results. When they get the result, theyll either stay there and get better Because people get better. I mean, most people are getting better. Most, by far, the people, you get better. Doesnt mean its not a tough one. It is a tough one, but no. Many people in Congress have felt not perfect or they met somebody that wasnt perfect. It turned out to be positive and theyve put themselves in quarantine. I think Congress has behaved unbelievably well in that regard.  Well know about that later. Well see what happens. So much depends on whats going on in this room in terms of the medical. If we can stop it in its tracks, the virus, its plenty. If we cant, well have to go back and talk. I do. I really do. Im not going to say, but I think so. Look, people are coming in for money, in some cases no fault of their own, but in some cases where they did certain things over the course of the years, including buying back stock, they bought back stock and they paid a high price for it as it turned out. But maybe I view that as a little bit differently than somebody that didnt and somebody that built plants all over the United States, of which there were plenty of them too. We will be helping the airline industry. We will be helping the cruise ship industry. We probably will be helping the hotel industry. Well probably be where jobs are created. You dont want to lose industries like this. These are incredible industries. You cant lose them. So well be focused on many industries. And I have to say, I cant say that struggle enough, we will be helping small businesses. Thats where its complicated because theres a lot of small Thats the engine of the country. We will be helping small businesses.  No. There could be. Were looking at a couple of things that I could do. Hopefully wont need it, but we can do. Theres a lot of executive power. If we dont have to use it, that would be a good thing, not a bad thing. Yeah, please. Thanks for telling us. We appreciate it. Go ahead. Whats the rest of your question? We know that. Everybody in the room knows that. Well be able to tell you that very, I think, in the near future. Well see where were going. Youre going to see numbers. Youve seen the graphs. Youre going to see numbers and well be able to let you know. I will say that the American public has been incredible for the most part, not in all cases, but for the most part. So youll be able to see whats happening over the next As we say, we had a 15-day period. Youll be able to tell a lot in a week or so, not everything, but well be able to see over a period of time.  And I have to say if chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine works or any of the other things that theyre looking at that are not quite as far out, but if they work, your numbers are going to come down very rapidly. So well see what happens, but theres a real chance that they might work. Go ahead, please, in the back. Well, hes a friend of mine, number one. And number two, we had dinner the other night and everybody said he was positive and he wasnt positive. He tested negative, so I was quite happy when I heard that. But I have no message for him other than hes doing a good job in Brazil. Hes doing a good job in Brazil and hes very popular. I cant tell you about that. I dont know about that. I have not heard that. Hes doing a very good job. Brazil was very troubled before he got there. The people love him and is popular. I think hes doing a very good job.  In Peru? Where? Where? We know about it. We have groups. We have a group of young people in Peru, and were working on taking care of that with the military. Yeah, were looking at No, not evacuation. Were trying to get them out, and they got caught. They were late with their flights. We gave them a period of time. They didnt make it, but were looking to get them out with military, probably through the military. We have a group of young people, I think young men or young people, could be women also with them, from Alabama, the great state of Alabama. Theyre in Peru and were working on that right now trying to get them out. Its a large group. Its about 300. Were going to work it out. Jeff? Yeah, we did discuss it. As you know, Prime Minister Abe was on the call, and thats a big decision for him. We dont know what his decision is, but wed live with his decision. Its a tough situation. Theyve done an incredible job. Japan has done an incredible job when building the venues, getting them built. Youve seen so many Olympic venues that have been a disaster over the years where they cost five times more than theyre supposed to, they werent ready in time. Japan has been just the opposite. They built it beautifully. They built it for what it was supposed to be built for. But then he got hit with the same thing that the rest of the world got hit with unexpectedly. He has told us that he has not made a decision as to what to do. Well, the one thing I will tell you is that from the standpoint, you always get a little bit torn because until we became the leading producer, I was always for the person driving the car and filling up the tank of gas and youd have gasoline. And the prices, if they were too high, I would always raise hell with OPEC. I was always somebody that likes it. And I never thought Id see 22 and 24 and $28 a barrel, but thats what we have. And in one way our consumer is very much helped. Its like a massive tax increase. Thats bigger than any tax decrease that you could give. We can give all these big tax cuts, but theyre paying so little for gasoline. But on the other hand, it hurts a great industry and a very powerful industry. So I spoke with numerous people that have a lot to do with it, and we have a lot of power over the situation. Were trying to find some kind of a medium ground. Its very devastating to Russia because when you look, I mean, their whole economy is based on that. We have the lowest oil prices in decades, so its very devastating to Russia. I would say its very bad for Saudi Arabia, but they were in a fight. They were in a fight on price. Theyre in a fight on output and at the appropriate time Ill get involved.  Well, Mickey called up and he said if you need them and we havent said yes, Ill call Governor Cuomo. Ill call Gavin, Gavin Newsom, governor from California Ill call. A few of the other governors are going to bring it up today because were meeting through phone, through telephone, telephonically as they say, in a little while at FEMA. Im going over to FEMA from here. Well, you can increase places to stay. Lets say places to stay, if it works. I mean, I dont know, maybe people wont want them. But he made the offer. It was a very generous offer, and he said that he has some ships that would be ideally suited for what were doing. And certainly they have a lot of rooms. Theyre big and they have a lot of rooms, so we appreciate it from Carnival.  Go ahead. Not needing the tests? Well, no, you should only get I didnt have any symptoms and I got a test, but I got a test because you people were driving everybody crazy. So thats the only reason. I had no symptoms, but I had a test. My doctor told me, Dont get it. You dont need it. Everybody said you dont need it. But I had to do it because the press was going crazy. And then after I got it, they said, You shouldnt have gotten it. You had no symptoms, the whole thing. So in other words if you get it, it was no good, but Im a unique case unfortunately. But no, people that dont show symptoms and people that have doctors that say they shouldnt get it, I would rely on that, yeah. I would rely on that.  OAN. Very good. Thank you very much. They treat me very nicely. Go ahead. No, I dont think its racist at all. It amazes me when I read the things that I read. It amazes me when I read the Wall Street Journal, which is always so negative. It amazes me when I read The New York Times is not even I barely read it. We dont distribute it in the White House anymore, and the same thing with the Washington Post because, you see, I know the truth. People out there in the world, they really dont know the truth. They dont know what it is. They use different slogans and different concepts for me almost every week trying to catch something. Last week it was, okay As you see me, theres no chaos. I have no chaos. Im the one telling everybody to be calm. Theres no chaos at the White House. We have unbelievable professionals. Its really, I mean, I think I came up with the term. I hope I came up with the term, but it is fake news. Its more than fake news. Its corruptness. They write stories without calling anybody, they write a story. Today, I had a couple of stories where They never call me, ever, that I know of. At least nobody tells me. Theyll write a story about me without even asking my opinion on something. Its totally fake.  I mean, there is a story in the Wall Street Journal today about how weve done. Weve done a phenomenal job on this. The governors even, even Gavin Newsom, who Im usually fighting with over the fires and I think you should do a different kind of a job in the forest and lots of things. We argue a lot, but Gavin Newsom has been very, very generous. Andrew Cuomo has been really very generous. I mean, theyre saying were doing a great job and everybody is saying. But then youll read this phony story in the Wall Street Journal, or the Washington Post is going wild lately. I dont know what happened to them. I guess something happened like we dont call them back or whatever. But the Washington Post These are very dishonest media sources. Theyre very dishonest. And you know what? Someday, hopefully in five years, I wont be here and thatll be fine. I will have done, I think, a great job. Because I dont think anyones done as much in three and a half years as Ive done, I dont think, and the administration. This administration has done a great job. But the press is very dishonest. Well, I think they do. I mean, they are siding with China. They are doing things that they shouldnt be doing. Theyre siding with many others. Chinas the least of it. So why theyre doing this, youll have to ask them. But if we had an honest media in this country, our country would be an even greater place.   So ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. We are very excited about, specifically, what we talked about with the chloroquine. I think it could be something really incredible. It could totally depress the times that we had mentioned.  Wait. Excuse me, excuse me. It could totally depress any time that were talking about if it works. There are a lot of reasons that I have to believe, again, Dr. Hahn is the expert, but a lot of reasons that I would have to think that it could have a very positive effect or a positive effect, maybe not very, but maybe positive. I think its, to me, very, very exciting. And the beauty is, I think I can say this, Steve, the beauty is that these drugs have been out there so the really danger part of the drugs, especially chloroquine, its been out there for years so we know its something that can be taken safely. So its very important.  Go ahead. Go ahead. And they are.  Were going to have other times to meet. Well be meeting, hopefully not for very long. I mean, I would like to see this get cleared up, and we think weve To me, this was a very important conference because I really think theres great potential here. A lot of people are going to be trying it soon, literally very soon, literally in a matter of days, if not sooner in some cases. Its already being experimented with and theres been some very good results. Well see what happens, but if we can be even partially right, maybe well be fully right, but even partially right on it, this whole subject becomes a much more pleasant subject. So thank you all. Were going over to FEMA now, so I dont know whos going. But were going to FEMA. Were going to be discussing with the governors and lots of other people. Now I think thats enough. Thank you.  Thank you, everybody. "
"Thank you very much. I had a very good telephone conversation, extremely good with Senator Schumer a little while ago. Were working on various elements of the deal and the Democrats are very much wanting something to happen and the Republicans likewise are very much wanting something to happen. And I think it will. I spoke at length with Mitch McConnell and theres tremendous spirit to get something done, so well see what happens. But my conversation was very good with Senator Schumer. I thank you all for joining us and Id like to begin by providing an update on what we are doing to minimize the impact of the Chinese virus on our nations students. With many schools closed due to the virus, the Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing requirements. Very importantly for students in elementary through high school, for the current year. Theyve been through a lot.  Theyve been going back and forth, schools open, schools not open. Its been all standardized testing and were not going to be enforcing that. So I think you can let the people know. I think probably a lot of the students would be extremely happy. Some probably not. The ones that work hard, maybe not, but its one of those things. Unfortunately, very unfortunate circumstance. Weve also temporarily waived all interest on federally held student loans. Therell be very happy to hear that. And Ive instructed them to take that action immediately. And today, Secretary DeVos has directed federal lenders to allow borrowers to suspend their student loans and loan payments without penalty for at least the next 60 days. And if we need more, well extend that period of time. Borrowers should contact their lenders, but weve given them very strong instruction so weve temporarily waved all interest on federally held student loans.  Thats a big thing. Thats going to make a lot of students very happy. And we have more to come on student loans. More good news for the students, but well do that at a different time. This morning the Treasury Department also announced that were moving tax day from April 15th to July 15th. So were moving it out to July 15th so that people will have time and people will be able to, hopefully by that time well have people getting back to their lives. Families and businesses will have this extra time to file with no interest or penalties. Were getting rid of interest and penalties. However, if you have refunds or credits youd like to claim, you may still file. In other words, you can file early if you are owed money by the IRS. Other than that, were moving it all the way out to July 15th. No interest, no penalties.  Your new date will be July 15th. Today, our team will also provide an update on our continuing effort to prevent the transmission of virus across Americas borders. And I watched whats been happening in California with Governor Newsome and this morning with Governor Cuomo, and I applaud them. Theyre taking very strong bold steps and I applaud them. And were all working together. Were working very closely together, including those two governors. But, I would say based on the call, the media was there. I think we can say that with respect to virtually every governor in that call, I think every governor, we had almost all of them, if not all of them. And I would say that you could see for yourselves that the level of respect and  core working together was extraordinary. There was nobody angry, nobody upset. Were able to help them and thats what were all about.  We want to help. Were doing things that a lot of people wouldnt be able to do. But the relationship with governors in states is I think very extraordinary, especially under the circumstances where this just came upon us. Were working with Canada and Mexico to prevent the spread of the virus across North America very closely. You heard what we did yesterday with Canada and Secretary of State Pompeo will be making a statement in a little while having to do with Mexico and the border. And Chad, likewise, Chad Wolf will likewise be making a statement. Theres a joint comprehensive effort in collaboration with our neighbors. The measure and all of those measures that were putting in place will protect the health of all three nations and reduce the incentive for a mass global migration that would badly deplete the healthcare resources needed for our people. And so we are working very closely with Mexico. Very, very closely with Canada and the relationships never been better.  Were all working for the same, toward the same goal. Our nations top healthcare officials are extremely concerned about the great public health consequences of mass, uncontrolled cross border movement. And that would be mostly, and even beyond, but mostly during this global pandemic. Every week our boarder agents encounter thousands of unscreened, unvetted and unauthorized entries from dozens of countries. And weve had this problem for decades. For decades. You know the story. But now its with the national emergencies and all of the other things that weve declared, we can actually do something about it. Were taking a very strong hold of that. And we have before, but this is now at a level that nobodys ever approached. In normal times these massive flows place a vast burden on our healthcare system, but during a global pandemic, they threaten to create a perfect storm that would spread the infection to our border agents, migrants, and to the public at large.  Left unchecked, this would cripple our immigration system, overwhelm our healthcare system, and severely damage our national security. Were not going to let that happen. So we have a lot of information and theyll be discussing that in a moment. To confront these public health degrees, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has decided to exercise its authority under the Title 42 of the US Code to give customs and border protection the tools it needs to prevent the transmission of the virus coming through both the Northern and the Southern border. So were treating the borders equally. The Northern border and the Southern border. Theyre both being treated equally. A lot of people say that theyre not treated equally. Well, they are. As we did with Canada, were also working with Mexico to implement new rules at our ports of entry to suspend non-essential travel. These new rules and procedures will not impede lawful trade and commerce.  Furthermore, Mexico is taking action to secure our own Southern border and suspend air travel from Europe. So were coordinating very closely, the air travel going to Mexico and then trying to come into the United States. The actions were taking together with our North American partners will save countless lives. At the conclusion of my remarks, Secretary Azar, Secretary Pompeo, Secretary Wolf, were going to be also taking some questions with Tony and Deborah, who youve gotten to know very well. But, therell be discussing certain things and I think youll find them of great interest. Were going to be providing tremendous amounts of detail over the coming days, but a lot of it will be provided right now, if youd like to find out about it. Theres been a week of resolute action, tremendous action, tremendous relationships have developed with people that frankly didnt get along. People that didnt like each other.  Theyre now working together and maybe even in some cases learning about each other and liking each other. Its a nice thing. I invoked the Defense Production Act and last night we put it into gear. We moved the National Response Coordination Center to the highest level of activity. I mean, if you take a look at what we did, the level of activation has been increased to a grade one level, which is the highest level. Were providing historic support to small businesses and to the states. The states need support. Normally, theyd this themselves, but because of the magnitude of it, the federal government has gotten very much involved in terms of getting the equipment they need. So were helping them. Its a responsibility they have, but we are helping the states a lot. Thats why the governors, I think in every case, have been impressed and very nice.  We enacted legislation guaranteeing paid sick leave for workers at no cost to employers. And I think its very important, so they get paid sick leave at no cost to employers. Were accelerating the use of new drug treatments. Were advancing legislation to give direct payments to hardworking families. Throughout our country Americans from all walks of life are rallying together to defeat the unseen enemy striking our nation. In times of struggle, we see the true greatness of the American character. And we are seeing that. A lot of people are talking about it. Were at 141 countries from what theyre telling me, and some of those countries, theyre really working in a unified manner and theyre working very unified with us. Almost, I could say, a good number of them. Doctors and nurses are working nonstop to heal the sick citizens. And churches are delivering meals to the needy.  Truckers are making the long haul to keep shelves stocked. Weve been dealing with the big stores and the big chains, Walmart, theyve been fantastic and others, theyve all been fantastic. Weve made it much easier for them to stock in terms of travel and travel restrictions. Were lifting restrictions so they can get their trucks on time. Youre seeing very few empty shelves and yet the amount of volume that theyre doing is unprecedented because people want to have what they have to have, what they feel they have to have. And theyre also buying in slightly smaller quantities, which is good, because were not going anywhere. Were going to be here. So I want to thank all of those very great companies for working so well. Americans from every walk of life are coming together and thanks to the spirit of our people, we will win this war and we are, were winning and were going to win this war.  America will triumph. And America will rise higher than ever before. Well be stronger than ever before. And weve learned a lot. Weve learned a lot. Weve learned a lot about relying on other countries. And I can say that I think in both a very good and a very bad way. Some good things came out of it and some not so good things came out of it. So Id like to move now to invite our team to provide information on the new measures to prevent viral spread at our borders. And Ill start by asking Secretary of State Pompeo to speak. Hes doing a fantastic job. And like everyone else, hes been working very, very long and very, very hard, and hes doing the other more normal jobs of a great Secretary of State. But, he got tied into this like everybody else and hes been really doing a fantastic job. Mike, please. Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. And well take questions right after this. Chad Wolf. Thank you. Thank very much, Chad. Thank you. Secretary. Thank you very much.  Tony or Deb? Thank you very much. Tony? Good. Thank you, Tony. Mike? Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. Go ahead. It is. I did it yesterday. We invoked it, I think, the day before. We signed it the evening of the day before, and voted yesterday. We have a lot of people working very hard to do ventilators and various other things, yes. We are. For certain things that we need, including some of the very important emergency  I would say ventilators, probably more masks, to a large extent. We have millions of masks which are coming, and which will be distributed to the states. The states are having a hard time getting them, so were using the act. The act is very good for things like this. We have millions of masks that weve ordered. They will be here soon. Were having them shipped directly to states. No, its no different other than we need certain equipment that the states are unable to get by themselves, so were invoking it to use the powers of the federal government to help the states get things that they need like the masks, like the ventilators. Yes, ? I dont think so. Essentially youve done that in California, youve done that in New York. Those are really two hotbeds. Those are probably the two hottest of them all in terms of hotspots. I dont think so, because you go out to the Midwest, you go out to other locations, and theyre watching it on television, but they dont have the same problems. They dont have by any means the same problem.  New York, California. Miami, the governors doing an excellent job, Governor DeSantis in Florida. We have some pretty hot spots in Florida too, and the state of Washington, of course. But that was largely, if you look at it, it was one nursing home that had problems like you wouldnt believe.  No, were working with the governors. I dont think well ever find that necessary. I am happy. I am happy with it. Well have to see what the results are at the end of 14 days, lets say. Well know by the 15th day, to see what we do.  Im certainly honored by the way the American people are working, because its work. Its work not to work. This is the first time this has ever happened. Were working on a tremendous financial package for them so they dont work. Whoever heard of this? Usually you work out a financial package to get people working. Were asking people not to work. Social distancing, that new term thats become probably the hottest term there is. No, Im very honored by the way the American people are are taking this so seriously. Yes, ? I think that really all of that is being discussed right now. We talked about, as an example, stock buybacks. I dont want to have stock buybacks. I dont want some executive saying, Were going to buy 200,000 shares of stock. I want that money to be used for the workers, and also for the company to keep the company going, but not for buybacks. I havent spoken to a lot of the Republicans or Democrats on it. We discussed it. I dont like buybacks. I didnt like them the first time. Were discussing that. Were discussing many things. Were not so far away. Ill tell you, were not very far away. I think, without seeing too much, Im probably more of a fan of that, maybe, than anybody. Im a big fan, and well see what happens. We all understand what the doctor said is 100% correct. Its early, but Ive seen things that are impressive. Well see. Were going to know soon. Were going to know soon. Including safety. When you get that safety, this has been prescribed for many years for people to combat malaria, which was a big problem, and its very effective. Its a strong drug. It was, as I understand that  Is that a correct statement? It was fairly effective on SARS? We were ordering  Yes, we have millions of units ordered. Bayer is one of the companies, as you know, big company, very big, very great company. Millions of units are ordered. Were going to see what happens.  Were going to be talking to the governors about it, and the FDA is working on it right now. The advantage is that it has been prescribed for a totally different problem, but it has been described for many years. Everybody knows the levels of the negatives and the positives. But, I will say that I am a man that comes from a very positive school when it comes to, in particular, one of these drugs.  Well see how it works out, . Im not saying it will, but I think that people may be surprised. By the way, that would be a game changer. Were going to know very soon. We have ordered millions of units. Its being ordered from Bayer, and there is another couple of companies also that do it. I think we only disagree a little bit. I disagree. Maybe and maybe not. Maybe there is, maybe there isnt. We have to see. Were going to known soon. No, I dont think so. I think got- Such a lovely question. Look, it may work, and it may not work. I agree with the doctor, what he said. May work, may not work. I feel good about it. Thats all it is. Just a feeling. Im a smart guy. I feel good about it. Were going to see.  Youre going to see soon enough. We have certainly some very big samples of people. If you look at the people, you have a lot of people that are in big trouble. This is not a drug that, obviously, I think I can speak from a lot of experience, because its been out there for over 20 years. Its not a drug that you have a huge amount of danger with. Its not a brand-new drug thats been just created, that may have an unbelievable monumental effect like kill you. Were going to know very soon.  I can tell you, the FDAs working very hard to get it out. Right now, in terms of malaria, if you want it, you can have a prescription. You get a prescription. By the way, and its very effective. It works.  I have a feeling you may  Im not being overly optimistic or pessimistic. I sure as hell think we ought to give it a try. Theres been some interesting things happened, and some very good things. Lets see what happens. We have nothing to lose. You know the expression? What the hell do you have to lose? John, go ahead. I say that youre a terrible reporter. Thats what I say. I think its a very nasty question, and I think its a very bad signal that youre putting out to the American people. The American people are looking for answers and theyre looking for hope, and youre doing sensationalism. The same with NBC and Comcast. I dont call it Comcast, I called Concast, for who you work.  Let me just tell you something. Thats really bad reporting, and you ought to get back to reporting instead of sensationalism. Lets see if it works. It might and it might not. I happen to feel good about it, but who knows? Ive been right a lot. Lets see what happens.  John? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. I agree. My message to the American people is that there is a very low incidence of death. You understand that and were going to come through this stronger than ever before. If you get it, if you happen to get it, it is highly unlikely. Its looking like its getting to a number. Thats much smaller than people originally thought in terms of the ultimate problem, which would be death. My message to the American people is, number one, youve done an incredible job, incredible what youve gone through. It wasnt their fault. It wasnt the fault of 140 other countries where this has happened and there is tremendous hope and I think were going to come out stronger, better, bigger in every way.  I think were going to be a better country than we were before. And we learned a lot. We learned on reliance who to rely on who not to rely on. Our country has been incredible the way they pulled together, including the fact that I just spoke to Senator Schumer. We had a wonderful conversation. We both want to get to a good solution, but its been a really, for me, watching and seeing people that werent speaking, getting along well because we all have one common aim and thats to get rid of this invisible enemy. Get rid of it fast, and then go back to the kind of economy that we had. And maybe even better. Yeah, please in the back. No, the back, please. Were going to be helping them a lot. Were going to be focused, a big focus and including my conversation with both Mitch and with Chuck, a big focus of that conversation with small businesses, because they are really the engine behind our country more so than the big ones. They are the engine behind our country. Im not aware of it, I saw some names. I know all of them. I know everyone mentioned Dianne Feinstein, I guess, and a couple of others. I dont know too much about what its about, but I find them to all be very honorable people. Thats all I know. And they said they did nothing wrong. I find them the whole group. Very honorable people. Yeah, please. Well, it also includes Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat. You didnt mention her name. What didnt you mention her name? And I think shes a very honorable person by the way. So Im not saying, but you know, its interesting that you mentioned two people, but you dont mention one that happens to be a Democrat. I dont know, because Id have to look at it possibly, but I find them to be honorable people. Yeah. I do. Because I think Peter is, Ive dealt with Peter for a long time and I think Peter is a not a good journalist when it comes to fairness. I think its a good message because I think that the country has to understand that there is indeed whether we like it or not, and some of the people in this room wont like it. Theres a lot of really great news and great journalism and theres a lot of fake news out there and I hear it all and I see it all and I understand it all because Im in the midst of it. So when somebody writes a story, or does a story on television, and I know its false, I know its fake. And when they say they have 15 sources have said, and I know theres no sources, theres no sources, theyre just making it up. I know that. And I call Peter out, but I call other people out too. And you know, this is a time to come together, but coming together is much harder when we have dishonest journalists. Its a very important profession that youre in. Its a profession that I think is incredible. I cherish it, but when people are dishonest, they truly do hurt our country. Yeah. In the back. Please, go ahead. Well, I have to say this, we have, and I can speak for myself, but I have a very good relationship with China and with President Xi. I have great respect for President Xi, I consider him to be a friend of mine. Its unfortunate that this got out of control. It came from China, it got out of control. Some people are upset. I know President Xi, he loves China. He respects the United States and I have to say I respect China greatly and I respect President Xi. No, I never liked stock buybacks from their standpoint. When we did a big tax cut and when they took the money and did buybacks, thats not building a hangar. Thats not buying aircraft. Thats not doing the kind of things that I want them to do. And were now talking about buybacks. We didnt think we would have had to restrict it because we thought they would have known better but they didnt know better. And some cases, not in all cases, obviously some people did an incredible job. They built plants all over the country. I mean youd see whats happened.  Until this invisible enemy appeared. I mean we never had an economy like this, but there were some companies that use that money to buy back stock, driving up the price of the stock artificially in many cases. I dont like that. I dont like it. And as far as whether or not well have that allow them when we give them money because we have to keep these great companies in business because of the workers. Frankly, for the most part because of the workers, the workers are my number one concern. But the way we take care of the workers is we have to keep the companies going. I am fine with restricting buybacks. In fact, I would demand that thered be no stock buybacks. I dont want them taking hundreds of millions of dollars and buying back their stock because that does nothing. Yeah, please. Sure, and one thing, Secretary of State Pompeo is extremely busy. So if you have any question for him right now, could you do that? Because you know what Id like to do? Id like to him to go back to the state department or as they call it, the deep state department. You know, Mike. Id like to have him go back and do his job. So does anybody have any question? Please.   Yeah, how about you? Only for the secretary. Just to put it, you know when you said before you said the non Mexicans going to Mexico, were not sending them to Mexico, were sending them back to their own country. Its not to Mexico. Why would Mexico take people that arent from Mexico? Were sending them back, in the case of Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, lot of other countries, they go back to the country from where they came. Okay. Mike, please. Go ahead, finish up. Maybe we shouldnt say that. We know plenty. They know the answer, they know the answer. Iran, the leaders. They know the answer to your question. What a good answer. Yes, go ahead. Very true, too. Excuse me, well do that in a second. Let Mike- Ill rather have, if you could finish up with the Secretary of State- Is everybody finished with the Secretary of State? Well I can just say, the entire world is agreeing with us because, they all have their choice and everybodys doing the exact same thing. We want to shut it out and we can do that and well see what happens in two weeks and three weeks. But if we can save thousands of lives and even millions of lives potentially, you dont know where it goes, but you could be talking about millions of lives. So if you look at the the world, I mean you have some very smart people in the world. You have some smart leaders in the world and everybodys doing it the way were doing it. I think were doing a better job than hopefully most, if not all, were doing a very effective job, but well know better in 14 or 15 days. But you know, youre talking about hundreds of thousands and maybe more than that numbers of people and you know, we can bring our finances back very quickly. We cant bring the people back. Yeah, I agree with it, but I think Id like to have Anthony answer that because to be honest, thats what he does and we had a lot of very talented people telling us what they think we should do. Secretary of State will be leaving. Any other questions? Go ahead in the back, please. In the back, for Mike.  Excuse me, I didnt call on you. Go ahead, please.  Im not dealing with him, Im dealing with the governor and the governor agrees with me and I agree with him. So far weve been very much in sync. I guess theyre not agreeing with each other necessarily, but the relationship with New York, I love New York. I grew up in New York as you probably have heard and the relationships been very good and I think government and the governor have been getting along incredibly well with the federal government. Okay. Anybody? Well, I believe in a lot of things. I want to get workers money and whichever way, the best way to get it, and I want to keep the businesses open too, because without the businesses, theyre not going to be getting money for very long. . If theres not, well do something later Im sure. Were not talking about $1,000 check. Were talking about much more than that. Were also talking about doing phases. If this doesnt work, were going to keep doing until we get it going and frankly, once we get the economy back and once this enemy is defeated, the invisible enemy as I call it, once its defeated, we get the economy back, its going to all come back to us very quickly. It comes back very quickly. We have a tremendous economy. We do numbers like no other country has ever done before.  Number one in the world, if you go back two weeks and still obviously, but if you go back two weeks, number one in the world by far. That money comes back to us very rapidly. We want to keep it. We want to have it so that when we are, not if, but when we win the war with the invisible enemy, when we win it, these companies can immediately start. Not that they have to start rebuilding, which takes a long time. Steve.  Steve. Im confident. Im confident. Were looking at different numbers. We have a best case and a not best case but the big thing is to defeat the virus. Once that virus is defeated, Steve, I think everything else falls in place very rapidly. I think youre going to have a tremendous upswing. A lot of people agree with me. If you look at your stock market geniuses and some of whom are not geniuses, but they think they are, a lot of people think that Im right about that, that once we defeat the virus, I think youre going to have a very steep, like a rocket ship. Its going to go up and everything will be back and I really believe were going to be stronger than ever before. Go ahead. You heard my news conference yesterday.  yesterdays news. No, that does happen because they want to buy supplies. We want to buy as a backup to them in case they cant and sometimes that will happen, but regardless of who gets them when they need them, were getting them to them. Now were doing the Production Act, were doing it very much and we have a lot of things cooking right now at a high level.  Remember this, nothing like this has ever happened before. Over 140 countries and you have supply chains that are broken down for two reasons because they cant supply that much and because people are sick and they cant be on the chain. So you have a lot of interesting things all over the world. You have supply chains that broke down because of the illness and also because of the fact that the quantity. But were getting it ordered, were getting it done and you just have to look. Some of you were at the call yesterday where I spoke with the governors, almost all of the governors, and every one of them was very impressed with what weve done. Go ahead. In the middle.  I would have to talk to them. I would have to talk to them. So far we havent had to. Its an amazing thing that happened. Were getting calls from automobile companies. Were getting calls from other companies saying they have plant capacity. They want to make ventilators. They want to make other things. We are literally being besieged in a beautiful way by companies that want to do the work. They want to do the job. They want to help us. They want to help our country, so we havent had a problem with that at all. Well when they call us they let us know. If theres a conflict they will call us and we will drop our bid because we want them to go first because their point, at point of sale. So weve had four or five instances where literally that was happening because you know were both trying to get stock and if were going against, they will call us, the smart ones frankly, will call us and we will immediately, we want them to buy it because it gets to them quicker if they buy it. They know that and its happening more and more where theyre calling and theyre saying, were bidding against each other. They want to get it. Theyll get it much quicker that way.  Go ahead, please. Well, its going very well. I tell you what. We inherited an obsolete deal and weve made a good thing out of it. I havent heard that question in awhile, but go ahead. When we need something because of the act. When we need something, we order something and as you know, two days ago I invoked the act, which was a big step. Im not sure that it had been done before, certainly not very much and when we need something, we will use the act. What has happened is before we even go out, many, many companies, great companies, companies in a totally different business are willing to do things and make things because thats what they do, they make product. Theyre willing to make product for us, medical product that we need very badly for the States that the States cant get, they havent been able to get. And you know most of the States in no way did they do anything wrong. They were stocked up, they were all equipped. Unfortunately theyve never had a thing like this. So they need help from the federal government.  I have. I have, yes. A lot. A lot. And theyre making it a lot of ventilators and they make it a lot of masks. Go ahead, please. Go ahead. I cant say they are, but they will be very shortly because were working with one in particular, the ones to make ventilators. They called us yesterday and theyre already, were working on a transaction. Theyre going to make ventilators. They say theyve done it before, which surprised me, but they can do it very easily.  No, not donate. Thats not the word, donate. Hes not giving them. Hes going to let me use them. I spoke with Micky Arison who is the president, chairman, CEO and owner.  He said to me that he was willing to, if we need ships, if we need ships for helping people, that Carnival would be absolutely willing to help us in Los Angeles, in New York, wherever they may be in Miami where theyre very big. If we needed something, they would be willing to. So far we havent needed to. And were bringing the big hospital ships up in California. We havent, were working with the governor of California as you know, with Gavin and we havent made a determination. Were also talking to folks who would like it in Seattle, so where were discussing where it can be most useful. Weve spoken with governor Cuomo and were bringing the big hospital ship up in two weeks and were going to have it in New York Harbor someplace in New York Harbor. No, I havent taken them up on it yet. I said, if we need it, Ill let you know. Thats called taking them up. Right now, we dont need it. What I can tell you, theyre very clean and also those surfaces, the germ, as you know, the virus disappears over a period of time and these ships are very clean. Theyve been kept very clean, theyd been gone over. But the virus, as you know, if its on a surface for a certain, they have actually charts different kinds of surfaces, it disappears over a period of time. What are you trying to get at? Go ahead. It disappears. The virus disappears when its on surface after a certain number of days or in some cases, hours depending on the surface. I will be, but first I want to get the approval from the company because I dont want to be doing that. I assume theyd like it, but Ill let you know. One company that has openly stated it is General Motors, one of the companies,  but I didnt speak to them about announcing it, but Ill announce it. Im sure they wouldnt be. But we have others also. Were hearing very positive things about testing and just so you understand, we dont want every American to go out and get a test. 350 million people. We dont want that. We want people that have a problem, that have a problem with theyre sneezing theyre sniffling, they dont feel good, they have a temperature. There are a lot of different things. You know them better than I do. So ready. We dont need that. But what we are having is were having these private labs have come in, theyve been really fantastic and we also have a great system for the future because as I said, we inherited, we meaning this administration an obsolete broken system that wasnt meant for anything like this. Now we have a system that you can see because look, were well into this and nobodys even talking about it, except for you, which doesnt surprise me. Well, okay, Im not hearing it. But we dont want everybody to go out and get a test because theres no reason for it. Yeah, well do one more after this. But I do think, and thats after listening to Tony and everybody else thats an expert. I do think its important that not everybody be tested. If you feel great and if you have no symptoms whatsoever, its just not a good thing to be doing. Steve. Want to finish up? Go ahead. Just so you know, just for the probably a hundredth time, I, this administration, inherited an obsolete broken old system that wasnt meant for this. We discarded that system and we now have a new system that can do millions of people as you need them, but we had to get rid of a broken old system that didnt work. It worked only on a very limited basis and were very proud of what weve done. Its incredible what weve done and this system will now serve for the future, for future problems.  Hopefully you dont have a problem like this, but something will come up. We have now a great system and its almost fully in gear, but its able to test millions of people. But we inherited a broken old, frankly, a terrible system. We fixed it and weve done a great job and we havent been given the credit that we deserve, that I can tell you. The one that really deserves the credit are the American people because they are doing things that nobody thought they would do. What theyre doing is incredible and were making a lot of progress and well see you folks tomorrow. Thank you very much. "
"Thank you very much. A lot of things going on and were going to be going over the Hill and there were a lot of meetings and from the financial, this is a medical situation, not a financial situation. Financial though is moving along very nicely. I want to thank you for being here and update you on the progress weve made after a week of extraordinary mobilization in our war against the virus. Governors, mayors, the businesses, charities and citizens are all working with urgency and speed toward one common goal, which is saving American lives. Were in communication with foreign countries. Its now at 148 foreign countries. Can you believe that? 100. You talk about a spread. You talk about a violent spread, 148 countries, not even believable. Theres been a week of national action and of great national solidarity. People are getting along. Were getting along with the Republicans and Democrats and Independents and liberals and conservatives and actually its a very nice thing to say.  Were all one beautiful big American family and thats taking place right now. Last night I approved major disaster declaration for the state of New York, worked very closely with Governor Cuomo and this is the first time in our nations history that a Presidents used the Stafford Act to a major disaster in response to a public health crisis. Never happened before. Im considering other areas where we may or may not be doing that and Im working very closely with Gavin Newsom, governor of California and others. We may be doing the same thing depending on their needs, depending on what theyre asking for. Its been unprecedented action in New York and weve had a tremendous federal response all over the country and I want to thank all the people in the federal government and obviously in the state governments and local governments. We are working hard, everybody is working hard and the people standing alongside of me are working very hard that I can tell you.  Weve also reached agreements with Canada and Mexico on new travel rules at our Northern and Southern borders to halt the entry of the Chinese virus. Well continuing trade and commerce and weve had very good talks. Ive with Prime minister Trudeau and today this morning with President Lopez Obrador. We talked about joint measures that were taking to prevent the spread of the virus in our countries and to temporarily suspend non essential travel. We had a great conversation this morning, President of Mexico and our close cooperation with Mexico and Canada will keep our people healthy, keep their people healthy, keep everybody safe. Yesterday I had a call with 12,000 small businesses, representatives of these businesses. Thats the engine of our country. People dont realize that, you read all about the big ones, but the small business, when you add them up together is really the engine economic engine of our country, and I assured them that my administration is doing everything within, its very considerable, considerable power, frankly, to support them and their employees.  Nobodys ever done what weve done. Likewise, I had calls during the week with all sorts of representatives and systems like the hospital system. We spoke to many of the hospital systems throughout the country, nurses and doctors, representatives representing hundreds of thousands of nurses and doctors. Airlines and cruise ship companies, the business round table, which was fully attended and its all of the top CEOs of our country and beyond, frankly. The businessmen have really, these are world world styled businessmen. These are businessmen that control the biggest companies in the world. Many of them have taken hits and many of them are just going forward.  Ill tell you, businesses have been, have been great. Some have been very badly affected, some havent been affected at all and frankly, some are doing very well. They continue to do very well. Its a, Walmart i an example. Its been really helpful to us. Doug McMillan, the head of Walmart really helpful to us and I guess I assume theyre doing pretty well cause people are certainly buying, buying more than even a clip at Christmas by substantial numbers. Pretty amazing, but theyre doing incredibly, they put on tremendous extra staff. You dont have empty shelves. A lot of things have happened that are very good.  Restaurants, fast food executives, grocery stores, all retailers. Literally all of them in groups. And we spoke with the G7 leaders at length. As you know, you probably know about that. Spoke to many of the governors, spoke to almost all of the governors, had conference calls and many of the governors individually. And very importantly the religious leaders. We had a great conversation yesterday, the Vice-President and myself with the religious leaders of our country, many of the religious leaders and weve had a number of them during the course of the last two weeks actually, but yesterday we had a very, very significant call with the religious leaders of our country.  I signed legislation providing American workers with paid sick leave and paid family medical leave at no cost to employers. And free testing for those who need it. The testings going very well and the Admiral will speak to that along with Tony. Were working quickly to pass additional legislation that will provide massive relief to small businesses and affected industries and give direct payments to our great workers and hardworking American families. Theres never been anything like were doing on the Hill right now. Their negotiating, Mitch McConnell, Chuck Schumer, theyre all up there. Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi, theyre all negotiating and everybodys working hard and they want to get to a solution thats the right solution. I think were getting very close. Weve also announced that weve moved tax day from April 15th to July 15th which is a big deal giving businesses and individuals extra time to file and pay without interest or penalty.  So weve moved the date way back and so itll be July 15th instead of your traditional April 15th and very importantly you will have a lot of time but youre not going to have interest penalties or any kind of penalties by filing. At that later date, HUD announced that foreclosures and evictions are suspended for single family home owners with FHA insured mortgages for the next 60 days. And our great head of HUD, whos with us today, Ben Carsons going to say a few words in a moment. The Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing, which is another big deal requirements for students in elementary through high school for the current school year. Not fair to do that. So we were waiving that. I would imagine its probably the first time ever thats been waived, but I think its only fair to the students and to the parents of the students.  It is also waiving interest and other things that were discussing right now on federally held student loans and directed that borrowers be allowed to suspend their student loan payments without penalty for at least 60 days. And well be talking about student loans, going to help the students. Theyre under a great burden right now so we will be talking about that further. But were waiving during this 60 day period various elements and very important elements on student loans. Big subject. I signed an executive order invoking the Defense Production Act, as you all know, giving us powerful new authorities to help states, cities, and hospitals procure needed supplies.  Theres been a clear call to action to the private sector and the call is made right here. Its been really pretty amazing whats happened with the private sector. They are really in a sixth gear I think, which has responded in full force helping to produce and supply much needed masks, swabs, sanitizers, ventilators, and everything else is a, theres a move on thats incredible right now. And by way of example, Hanes, everybody knows Hanes, great company, great consumer cotton products company is retrofitting its manufacturing capabilities in large sections of their plants to produce masks. And theyre in that process right now. And at my direction, the FDA has taken rapid steps to make these items available for medical use right now. I mean most excitingly to me is what the FDA has done in order to get a possibly a very successful number. Its not just one or two number of therapeutics, medicines that can help people that are already sick, help people not get sick. And obviously you know about the vaccine and Tony, well discuss that a little bit later, but the vaccine is moving along.  But this is something that right now for right now, like this is what we really, its incredible. And what the FDA has done, and Dr. Steven Hahn, whos highly respected, came as a, just a highly respected man. Hes been fantastic. Hes only been here for a couple of months and hes gotten thrown into the swim of it and hes really standing up. But the FDA has really moved mountains. I said it this morning they moved mountains to get approvals on things that maybe work well find out very soon, it wont take along.  Along an example of the , which is a, this is really an example where were purposing alcohol. They went out and repurposed their alcohol production capabilities in Arkansas, Kentucky, Texas, and West Virginia to make hand sanitizer. Thats a big difference and theyd been unbelievable. They really, , their first delivery will be on Tuesday. Its going to go to various states. Theyre going to start, I think in New York and theyre going to work their way around. Theyre making a tremendous amount of hand sanitizer at a very high level too, by the way.  Weve activated the National Response Coordination Center to level one, thats your highest level. Theres the nerve center of all of our government response to crisis and its coordinating very closely with our nations governors. Our nations governors, as many of you were at the call yesterday with the governors and I think you can see the relationship. And weve had numerous calls with governors by the way, but the relationships are pretty amazing. Theyre loving what were doing and the coordination between the federal government and the governors States and even local has been pretty incredible. FEMA administrator, Pete Gaynor, who is with us will soon be providing you with an update on the centers operations and FEMA has been incredible. We got them involved last week, very much involved and now theyre involved nationwide.  Weve dramatically expanded telehealth so Americans can see a doctor without leaving home something which more and more people are using and now theyre really using it. And now the ones that are using it are loving it. And I think were going to change the way our country functions medically and probably in other ways because of whats going on right now. This will reduce the chance of infection and preserve hospital capacity. So it solves a lot of problems.  Every American has a role to play in defending our nation from this invisible, horrible enemy. It really is. Its an invisible enemy and we will be successful, very successful, hopefully very much sooner than people would even think. So we say stay at home and save lives. Theres a time of shared national sacrifice, but its also a time to treasure our loved ones and to take stock of what is most important, our faith, our families, our neighbors, and our great country. And I want to thank all of the incredible people of our country, the citizens of our country, that what youve done and the way youre responding has just been a very special, something that we will never forget, that the history books will never forget. And were going to have a great victory. Were going to be celebrating a great victory in the not too distant future.  And I just want to thank everybody and now Ill introduce our vice president Mike Pence, whos led the task force. And I will tell you this, he has not slept much, maybe a tiny bit, maybe a little bit, but not much. And hes done an incredible job. Mike, thank you. Please. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Admiral. Thank you very much, Admiral. Dr. Fauci. Thank you, Tony, very much. Thank you very much, Pete, appreciate it. Ben, please. Ben, thank you very much. A few questions, please. I just took one. I feel great. I hope I look good. Those people are going to be. . Well, what they do right now is keep receiving their paycheck and hopefully their companies are going to be in a very strong position. We want to keep everything together because we think were going to have a tremendous bounce back. Now, some people agree with that very strongly. Some of our top economists, they think were going to have a very, once we solve the problem of that were working on, the medical problem. So we want them to keep their jobs, stay where you are and well see what happens. Now if they dont, we have unemployment, we have checks, we have a lot of things happening, a lot of very positive things nobody has ever done. Now this is working with Democrats, this is Republicans and Democrats and myself working together. Nobodys ever done a package like this. Its a great package. But ideally we want them to be able to keep their jabs, keep the pay coming. And I think thats going to happen. Kelly, go ahead. Because we have so many companies making so many products. Every product that you mentioned plus ventilators and everything else. We have car companies without having to use the act. If we dont have to use specifically, we have the act to use in case we need it, but we have so many things being made right now by so many theyve just stepped up. In fact, Mike Pence and I were discussing it before. Weve never seen anything like it where they are volunteering. We want to make masks who are not, like Hanes. I brought that up as an example. General Motors, I bring that up as another, Ford. Theyre going to go on the open market. We want them on the open market from the standpoint of pricing because otherwise its going to be, we could be very unfairly . We are directing states and sometimes well be competing against states, which I dont want and well drop out of the bidding. We want the states to go first and you know what were doing is were helping states. Thats what we want to do. Same thing with the testing. Were helping states, were helping states get to where they want and weve made tremendous progress in every aspect of it. Well, its happening pretty fast right now and the governors are out there trying to get and if they are competing with us, we immediately drop out. Please. My people are and Ill be staying here. Ill be in the Oval Office and various other places in the White House. So Ive spoken with, Im not going to say who I speak with, but Ive spoken with directly or indirectly everybody many, many times. Were doing very well. I think the Democrats and the Republicans are going to come up with a package thats going to be really something very special. Its going to help people. This is the first time theres ever been a case where you want people not to work. Its always, you want to create an incentive to work. Were creating not an incentive not to work, but the fact is were asking people not to work because of they have to stay away from each other. If were going to kill this horrible hidden enemy, we have to stay away. So theres never been a thing like this in the history of the world. And other nations are doing similar things, some effectively, some not effectively. Theyre doing similar things.  We are creating a package thats going to keep companies together, keep workers paid so they can live and sustain. Well see what the timing is. The biggest thing we can do is get rid of the problem. The problem is exactly what we know, the medical problem. We want to have this whole incredible situation that it can start right away. Not that all of these companies break up, all the workers are out of jobs. You cant put them back together and it would take years to put them back together because we had the greatest economy in the history of the world until we got hit by this problem. And we can be back very, very quickly. And its our intention to be back very, very quickly.  So were doing a package the likes of which nobodys ever done before. Im obviously the one that has to approve the different things and the recommendations of the different things. And like buybacks as an example and stock buy backs. I didnt like it the first time and this time Im saying, Youre not doing it. I dont want money to be used for that. I want money to be used for workers and for opening businesses, keeping businesses not buy backs. And well, I would, I am strongly recommending a buyback exclusion. You cannot buy back your stock. You cant take $1 billion of the money and just buy back your stock and increase the value. Please. When will the masks start coming in? Switch it. We have a lot of them, a lot have already come in. I have to tell you, the throwing away of the mask being in private business, the throwing away the mask right away, theyre thrown away. And when you hear 55 million masks, what Im saying, 55 million, how could it possibly be such a number? And they say, Oh, thats just a small fraction of what we need. And I said, Why arent we sanitizing masks? You look at the mask, Ive looked at all the different masks. Some dont lend themselves to doing that, I think, but many do. And I said, Why arent we  We have very good liquids for doing this, sanitizing the masks. And thats something theyre starting to do more and more. Theyre sanitizing the masks and I dont know if anybody who would like to speak to that.  You might want to just  I wouldve liked that much better personally. Yeah, go ahead, Mike. You mean the ones that are saying good things or bad things? Well, Ill tell you the way I look at it. So many administrations proceeded me. For the most part, they did very little in terms of what youre talking about. This is unprecedented. You could speak to Tony, you could speak to anybody. This is unprecedented or just about unprecedented. As time goes by, were seeing its really at a level that nobody wouldve believed. Nobody would have thought possible that this could happen and we are making much of this stuff now and much of its being delivered now.  Weve also gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people that cant believe how fast its coming. When I hear they have an order of 55 million masks and thats just one order, thats one order at our many and that there are many millions of masks beyond that that are  and I keep saying, How is it possible to use so much? But thats the way it is. And part of that is because theyll use a mask for a short period of time and they throw it.  The fact is that we are doing a tremendous amount. We started with very few masks. We had some, but nothing for an event like this, and now were making tens of millions of masks and other things and I think its unprecedented what weve done and what were doing and many doctors that Ive read, many, many doctors, they cant believe the great job that weve done.  Yah, Kelly, did you have one? Well, if you remember  I was the one that closed the country down. I was the one that closed the  You dont write that or you dont say it too much. Certainly on CNN, but I just read an article yesterday. I just read an article yesterday that by closing the country down so early, very early, we saved tens of thousands and much more than that lives. So you might want to report that too. Tony? And again, what were doing is were trying to help the states get things faster and thats what were doing. Were implementing. And the magnitude of this, its a tragedy. Its an absolute tragedy, but the magnitude is something that no matter who you were, no matter where you come from, nobody ever thought a thing like this could happen. You read about 1917 and you read about certain things, but you think in a modern age, I thing like that could never happen.  Well it comes back, it is genius. It comes back and its too bad. But I think the people working on this have been incredible. The job theyve done has really been incredible. But theres tremendous amounts of not only masks, of ventilators and respirators and everything you can think of. Its all being much of it and almost, I could say all of it is being manufactured right now. Steve, please. Well, I dont know that resolved. I can say that its going to distributed. I know New York is getting I think 10,000 units and numerous other people. Its really, it could be the malaria drug plus the Z-Pak. But, and were going to find out, were going to find out. I feel as the expression goes, what do we have to lose? Because I feel very good about it. Tony would feel, like hed like samples done in a certain way and I understand that, too. Many doctors agree with that. We dont have much time.  We have a lot of very sick people right now in hospitals all over the place and speaking with the governor in New York, Cuomo, I said, Hows it look? Hes got a lot of sick people, so were going to be delivering a lot of samples to New York and other places and were going to find out very shortly whether or not its going to work. I feel very confident. Ive seen things that surprise me frankly.  There are, as Tony said, there are other things were looking at too. Vaccine of course is incredible, but this is more immediate. Right now, this to me would be the greatest thing that could happen. This would be a gift from heaven. This would be a gift from God if it works. So were going to pray to God that it does work. Itd be a fantastic thing. Yeah, in the back. My businesses? Sure. Well, I wouldnt say youre thriving when you decide to close down your hotels and your businesses. No, I would say, Im very under levered and everything, so thats good. But is it hurting my  yeah. Its hurting me and its hurting Hilton and its hurting all of the great hotel chains all over the world. Its hurting everybody. I mean, there are very few businesses that are doing well now. There are some that are like as an example, the Walmarts of the world because everybodys lined up to get things and stock up their house and this and that. But sure, it hurts my business. No, I didnt speak to anybody. I speak to my sons, but I talk about the coronavirus, but not as it pertains to my business. They basically follow the rules. When they say close them down in New York, we close them down or wherever they may be having. I actually have them all over the world and when they say, close them down, we close them down.  What Kelly? Well, I have nothing planned at Mar-a-Lago. But right now I think Mar-a-Lago, I guess I havent even asked, but I imagine thats closed down just like a lot of other businesses in Florida. Right?  Go ahead. I dont know. I just dont know what the government assistance would be for what I have. I have hotels. Everybody knew I had hotels when I got elected. They knew I was a successful person when I got elected. So its one of those things, I guess I get paid $450,000 a year. I give it up, I put it back into the nation. I usually, I have to, by the way, you have to designate where you want it. So I oftentimes give it to opioid research and things.  But as far as the hotels and everything, I have to do what everyone else is doing. I would probably decide to close things up. I think its a good thing. You dont want people getting together and hotels and clubs and everything. You get together. We want to beat this deal. So I have many of them, hotels, clubs, things like that where people get together. I would think it would be a good practice to close them up.  Yeah, go ahead, please. Well, I do it. I do it. I have temperature tests and I didnt ask everybody here, but I wouldnt be surprised if they had temperature tests. Otherwise, Im going to run off the stage. Oh, I think they are pretty much. The easiest thing is the temperature. I think they are. I dont know. Are you learning a lot from the temperature tests, Tony? Could you maybe discuss that for a second? I took his temperature. And Ive seen things when Tony mentions thermometers. They aim something at your forehead. They say this far away, boom, and they tell you what your temperature is. I said, Ive never seen that before. Ive learned a lot. Ive learned a lot. Its incredible. Go ahead in the back, the back corner. Well, I love whoever youre with thats because I think thats such a nice, thats such a nice question. No, I think the Washington Post covers us very inaccurately. Covers me very inaccurately. I saw this story. I think its a disgrace, but its the Washington Post and I guess we have to live with it. Its a very, its a very inaccurate, quiet, quiet. Its a very inaccurate story. From many people, I get a lot of credit for having closed our country very early to a very heavily infected country, China. Unfortunately, China, I wish China would have told us more about what was going on in China long prior to us reading about it. Even though the news isnt exactly disseminated. As you know, China kicked the Washington Post out of China and they kicked the New York Times out of China and I guess the Wall Street Journal.  Thats okay. I mean thats what they do and I think its a terrible thing they did. But I also think its terrible when people write inaccurately about you and they write inaccurately about me every single day, every single hour. And by the way, your group really, I really think, and I just say fair, not good or bad, I think you write very fairly and do very fair reports about the great job that all of us are doing. That this group behind me is doing. Its so insulting when they write phony stories that they know are fake news because theyre not insulting me. Theyre insulting everybody. These incredible people that have worked so hard, so long that are thinking about nothing other than this invisible enemy. They have done such an incredible job. And they will continue and were going to win and therell be a lot of celebration when we win and were going to win with as few lives lost as possible.  Thats the game. Win with as few lives lost as possible. Its a tough enemy. Its a tough killer, far bigger, far more vicious than ever before. But I appreciate you saying it because the fact that we closed so early to China and most people Hey look, I was called xenophobic by sleepy Joe Biden. I was called a racist by Democrats. A racist. I was a racist because I decided that I didnt want to have people that could hurt our country come in, and I was pretty much in a very small group of people. I will tell you, it was a tiny little group. Most people even that worked in the White House disagreed with me very strongly.  Saving of those many weeks was a tremendous thing and where they keep talking about acting early, that was the ultimate act. That was the biggest act because we didnt, and then I also closed Europe early, very early and I took a lot of heat for that too, but that was a good thing. Now theyre doing similar things that were doing. So I didnt act late. I acted early. I acted far before anybody thought I should be. I took tremendous criticism from the various papers, from many of the papers. So I very much appreciate the question.  It mightve been more of a statement that a question. But whatever it may have been, I appreciate it very much. No. No. They can do what they want to do. If California can get a mask sooner than we can get it for them through all of the things were able to do and we were going to end up with a big oversupply at some point. At some point this is going away and were going to end up with a big oversupply and you know what, in this case thats going to be okay.  But if California, if Gavin can go out and order gowns faster or masks, good masks faster or other things faster, thats good. We do have a lot of  The coordination with the ships that were sending in, as you know, the medical ships that were sending in and even cruise liners. Were going to be sending in probably cruise liners into some areas in particular California and in particular New York. But if somebody can do something faster, if they can order that mask faster than us, I want them to be able to do it. We coordinate very much with them. Yes. Well, it doesnt have to be at this moment because we have places in the country where, states where they have two people, or three people and those people are in quarantine and you cant put on them what youre putting in New York where you do have a tremendous problem. We have large portions of the country, middle America where they have a few people. So it may be a time, I hope that never happens where we need to take very drastic action. But right now thats not in the same ballpark. Yeah, go ahead, please. Yes. I think they are, and some people are not. But, I think they are. I think its going to have a very profound effect. Well know a little bit more on day 14 and 15 and well see. Well were going to see. We have to see what the result is. We want to flatten that out and were going to see what the result is. And I just want to say, Im going to negotiate a very large transaction and Ive been negotiating it for two days. So Im going to take one or two more questions and then Im going to leave it to Vice President Pence.  On the Hill, with the Hill, the various elements of the package. Steve, go ahead. No, no I havent. Look, we understand the difficulty of that and hes a very good friend of mine. You take a look at Shinzo Abe. Hes a great gentleman. He loves his country. We have an incredible relationship. We just finished a trade deal with them, $40 billion trade deal with Japan.  We just finished a trade deal with them, 40 billion dollar trade deal with Japan, and Prime Minister Abe has a big decision to make. They have built one of the most beautiful venues Ive ever seen. Theyre all ready to go. Its not late. Its not over budget. It was just done flawlessly, and its beautiful, and theyre sitting back and saying  I told them. I said Thats your decision. And it is his decision, and I know hes going to make it soon. I dont know what its going to be, and I didnt think I should be influencing it at all.  I mean, the job that Japan has done on that venue is incredible. So there are options, obviously, including delay, and maybe delay for next year, but thats totally up to them. Well see what they do. When I learned I started doing the closing, so probably around that time. We didnt learn much. I think youre going to ask a little bit about China responsibility. I do think that, again, I have great respect for China. I like China. I think the people of China are incredible. I have a tremendous relationship with President Xi. I wish they couldve told us earlier about what was going on inside. We didnt know about it until it started coming out publicly, but I wish they couldve told us earlier about it, because we couldve come up with a solution.  Tony Fauci, and all of the people, the talent that we have wouldve loved to of had three or four months of additional time if you knew that this was going to be happening. They didnt have that time. They read about it in the newspapers like everybody else. China was very secretive. Okay? Very, very secretive. And thats unfortunate. With that, I have great respect for that country. I have great respect for the leader of that country, and like him. Hes a friend of mine. But I wish they wouldve told us earlier, Steve, that they were having a problem, because they were having a big problem, and they knew it.  And I wish they couldve given us an advanced warning, because we couldve had a lot of things, as an example, some of the things that were talking about where we order them as quickly as we can. If we had a two or three month difference in time it wouldve been much better.  Yeah, please. Yeah. Because its true. Because its true. China has worked very hard. China has lost thousands and thousands of people. No. They werent transparent. They were transparent at that time. But when we saw what happened they couldve been transparent much earlier than they were. Just so you understand. Chinas not a beneficiary here. China has lost thousands and thousands of people. China has gone through hell over this. Theyve gone through hell. And Ive had conversations with President Xi. I just wish they couldve told us earlier. They knew they had a problem earlier. I wish they couldve said that. Thank you. Im going to leave that up to Dr. Fauci and everybody else, and I think the answer is we want to share them. I would imagine we want to share the numbers. Admiral, do you want to discuss that? Half a billion, no, not billion. Yes. I said, wait a minute. Theres never been numbers like this. A ventilator is a machine. Its a very complex machine and to think that we have to order hundreds of thousands nobodys every heard of a thing like this. We had thousands in a stockpile. Thousands ready to go. Thats a lot. All of a sudden you need hundreds of thousands. The mask is  Whether its plastic, or whether its material, thats one thing, but youre talking about a very sophisticated heavily computerized machine, and delicate, and you need hundreds of thousands of them. Nobodys ever heard of a thing like that.  With that being said General Motors, Ford, so many companies  I had three calls yesterday directly. Without having to institute like You will do this these companies are making them right now. But to think of these numbers its pretty mind-boggling. Michael, please. You understand it. You understand it. Youre an intelligent woman, Kelly. You understand exactly what hes saying, and what hes saying is rather incredible, because we inherited an obsolete broken system, and when you hear the number of tests that well be providing, and are now, its incredible. Ive heard a lot of governors say the same thing. We took over an obsolete broken testing system that wouldnt of worked for even a small problem let alone one of the biggest pandemics in history.  And what these gentleman have done is incredible. I am going now to negotiate a great deal for our workers and our citizens. Ill be back tomorrow. Were probably doing this tomorrow, and if I might Id like to ask Vice President Pence to take over, and thank you all very much."
"Thank you very much. Just before we begin, I want to mention were working very hard, long on getting a young group of people out of Peru. Weve removed some and the rest are being removed with the cooperation of the Peruvian government. And were also dealing with Honduras on getting some people out that got caught up. And we are working in that very well again with the Honduran governments work. And theyre working with us, so I appreciate that.  We have a couple of other locations that will report to you and we were able to get a young woman released from a certain area who was being a horribly accosted, horribly treated. And we spoke to General Milley. General Milley took care of it. We went in and we got her out. And well report further on that one, but its, that was rough stuff. I want to thank General Milley. I want to thank all of the people that were involved and the people that went in to get her. I want to thank you very much.  As we continue to marshal every resource at Americas disposal in the fight against the Chinese virus, we were profoundly grateful to our nation, state and local leaders, doctors, nurses, law enforcement and first responders who are waging this battle on the ground. It is absolutely critical that Americans continue to follow the federal governments guidelines. So important about social distancing, non-essential travel, and hand-washing. Defeating this unseen enemy requires the help and commitment of every single American.  I want to just say that Senator Rand Paul, a friend of mine, hes been a great friend of mine. Hes been always there when we needed him, when the country needed him, and as you know, he just tested positive. Jose Diaz-Balart, I spoke to him yesterday, tested positive. And some people are getting quite close to home. And its a terrible thing thats going on, the hidden enemy. I call it the hidden enemy. And I think theyll all be fine. I hope theyre going to be fine. But I just want to send our regards. And I think I can speak on behalf of our country to those two great friends of mine.  Were working urgently with Congress on legislation to support the millions of workers, small businesses and industries whove been hit hard by the virus through no fault of their own. Our goal is to get relief to Americans as quickly as possible so that families can get by and small businesses can keep workers on the payroll. This will help our economy and you will see our economy skyrocket once this is over. I think its going to skyrocket. Its a pent up demand. Its a built up demand. And I guess you really have to say who knows, but I think its going to be a tremendous day when we win this war. And we will win the war.  We want to win the war was with his few, if you look at it, just deaths as possible. We want to have as few number of deaths as possible. Today Im announcing action to help New York, California, and Washington ensure that the national guard can effectively respond to this crisis. The national guard, these are tremendous people. Theyre fully on alert. Weve signed what we had to sign. And its been activated.  Were dealing also with other states. These states have been hit the hardest actually pretty much by far you could say the hardest. Everybody can see that. Just look at the numbers. And through FEMA, the federal government will be funding 100% of the cost of deploying national guard units to carry out approved missions to stop the virus while those governors remain in command. So the governors locally are going to be in command and well be following them. And we hope they can do the job and I think they will.  I spoke with all three of the governors today and just a little while ago. And theyre very happy with what were going to be doing because we will be announcing some other things for those three states and some other states where its a hit the hardest.  This actually will give them maximum flexibility to use the guard against the virus without having to worry about cost or liability. And freeing up state resources to protect the health and safety of the people in their state. The federal government has deployed hundreds of tons of supplies from our national stockpile to locations with the greatest need in order to assist in those areas. I approved the state of New Yorks request for a major disaster declaration, something which Governor Cuomo has been asking for and which I agree. And we had it done in very rapid fashion.  We approved this on Friday evening. And we are working very, very hard to get all of these things not only signed up but completed and finished and win. The requests from the state of Washington for a major disaster declaration was approved just a little while ago. Went through the process and we moved it very quickly. The request from the state of California was just received and we will have it approved very quickly. Well be working, I told that to Gavin Newsome. And were working on getting that done very quickly. Itll be done maybe tonight. We have large quantities of medical equipment and supplies on the way based on all of this to those states including respirators, surgical masks and gowns, face shields, coveralls and gloves with large quantities already delivered to Washington and to New York. In addition to large quantities of supplies, Ive also directed FEMA to supply the following, four large federal medical stations with 1000 beds for New York, eight large federal medical stations with 2000 beds for California, and three large federal medical stations and four small federal medical stations with 1000 beds for the state of Washington. The governors know.  The supplies in route to California in New York will be delivered within the next 48 hours. In addition, the Naval hospital ship, the USNS Mercy, its incredible ships. These two ships are incredible. One on the West coast, one on the East coast will be deployed to Los Angeles to add emergencies, surge medical capacity, and they have a tremendous capacity. They are really something. I will say that if you look at some of the things weve been doing and now those numbers have gone up, and just to be a little bit more exacting, weve done a presidential approval for requests for major disaster declaration for the state of New York, approval of Title 32 national guard activation for the state of New York. Were providing all of this at no cost to the governor. I spoke with Governor Cuomo. Hes working hard, were all working hard together. The relationship is really been amazing.  But it also enables the governor to provide robust national guard support to the state and the 25%, were going to be waving that 25% cost. Were picking up, well be coordinating. And theyll be doing something with very special people. Mission assignment of the US army Corps of engineers to provide support to build out alternate care sites. Theyre doing various alternate care sites which have now been designated by New York, four large federal medical stations of 1000 beds. These are very complex places actually with great equipment and great people. Strategic national stockpile order and this is as of a number of days ago, so far delivered to New York and this is the 19th, we had the N95 respirators, 186,416 delivered. Weve delivered 444,000 O78 surgical masks, many have been delivered since then. Face shields, weve delivered 84,560 face shields, surgical gowns 68,944 to New York, coveralls 352, gloves 245,486.  Also to New York in terms of whats been delivered just since then. The numbers are quite large and we have tremendous numbers of companies also making equipment for the state of Washington. Weve delivered 369,000 N95 respirators, 507,406 surgical masks. This is as of about three days ago. Face shields 63,788 face shields, surgical gowns 107,850, gloves 240,376 and we have many, many things pending. Its actually not pending. Theyre being fabricated, theyre being made. And theyre moving.  Now for Washington, so we have four small federal medical stations 250 beds, and for Washington, state of Washington, we have three large federal medical stations 750 beds. And then you have, as I said, the approval of the Title 32 national guard.  State of California, again, to be very precise, were going to have the approval of the Title 32 national guard activation. And were providing all of this again, like in New York, at no cost to the governor, meaning to Governor Newsome, and the state, no cost to the state. It enables the governor to provide robust national guard support to the state, so theyre going to have control of the national guard. Federal governments sending, these are incredible people that are being sent.  We have eight large federal medical stations with over 2000 beds and thats going to California and then strategic national stack pile order. Weve ordered likewise hundreds of thousands of different items, wont go into the exact numbers but the numbers are very substantial, but were having tremendous additional numbers sent. And whatever the states can get, they should be getting.  I say were sort of a backup for the states. And some of the states are doing really well and some dont do as well. The ones that dont do as well need more help. But these are three states that really do need help because they are hit very hard. And the outpouring from the private sector has also been extraordinary. Im pleased to report that Honeywell, great company, has just announced it will immediately expand its personal protective equipment manufacturing operations in Rhode Island to produce millions of additional N95 masks. Theyre very hard to get, theyre actually quite complex, for the US government strategic national stockpile. Theyll be immediately then delivered to the various states. This expansion is already underway and its going to provide a lot of jobs for that state, probably around 500.  The masks will be distributed by the government for the use of the health, safety, and emergency, and this for response workers, primarily for response workers. These are very high end. This expansion is in addition to Honeywells action to more than double production of its existing personal protective equipment manufacturing plants. They make a lot of different things and theyre doubling and tripling their production. Theyre going round the clock.  Today, Im also announcing the launch of a new public private consortium organized by the White House, the Department of Energy, and IBM to unleash the power of American super computing resources to fight the Chinese virus. The following leaders from private industries, academia and government will be contributing. And theyre going to be contributing a lot of different things, but primarily computing resources to help researchers discover new treatments and vaccines. Therell be working along with NIH and all of the people that are working on this. But tremendous help from IBM, Amazon, Google, Microsoft, MIT, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, the Department of Energys national labor laboratories, the National Science Foundation and NASA. Theyre all contributing to this effort. And theyre fully in gear.  This afternoon, I also want to update you on the steps were taking to protect and serve our countrys 18 million veterans. These are great people. Our amazing veterans have shown their eternal loyalty to our nation and this is the time where theyre in need and we are going to show our loyalty to them. Were being very protective of our veterans. Were working on certain hospitals where we may be doing some work in Louisiana in particular and some other states, veterans hospitals. Were going to be very protective of our veterans. Some of them are of that very vulnerable age. And some of them obviously are not feeling well. And some of them are still suffering the wounds of war from many years ago.  Yesterday I signed vital legislation to ensure that the GI bill will cover distance learning during this emergency. I also spoke with many of our veteran service organizations or the VSOs to describe our unprecedented action. In February, the department of veterans affairs established 19 emergency operation centers throughout the country. One of the things that theyve been trying to get done for many years, you all know this from following me over the last number of years, but we got it done pretty quickly. Theyve been trying to get it done for many, many decades was choice, veterans choice and also veterans accountability.  Now if its crowded within this, if they cant get to a doctor, we have great doctors in the VA. I have to say that. We have fantastic doctors as good as they come. But its hard to get to them because of what was bureaucracy, but no longer bureaucracy. Weve done a lot of things in that case because of accountability. When people arent doing their jobs or if theyre bad or if theyre sadistic or if they steal or anything bad happens, were now allowed to fire them for, I signed that a year and a half ago. For many years you werent able to do this.  So the VA is working and I was just told by our great leader at the VA, Robert Wilkie, he said for the first time we get the highest marks in the history, highest poll numbers in the history of the veterans administration came out a week ago that theyre happy. And look, one of the reasons that happened, highest in history, one of the reasons that happened is because of veterans choice. If they have to wait in line, they go and see a private doctor and we pay the bill. And they get better.  They dont have to wait two weeks and three weeks or two days. But they get better. And a lot of times they waited so long that they would have a problem and it would end up being terminal because they couldnt get the kind of treatment that they deserve. So highest poll numbers, highest approval numbers in the history of the VA. I was just given that information yesterday.  We restricted visitors access to 135 veteran community living centers, which has nearly 8,000 veterans with chronic medical conditions so that we limit their exposure to the virus. We want to totally take care of our veterans and thats what were doing. The VA has canceled most elective medical and surgical procedures. Theyre delaying them until after this has gone, after weve won. We began providing lifesaving care to patients who had symptoms across the 171 VA medical centers nationwide, thats a big deal.  Under my administration, the VA has also been a leader in expanding telehealth. Telehealth is becoming a bigger and bigger factor in medicine. This month weve taken bold action to cut through the red tape and make telehealth available for millions more Americans during this crisis. They can speak to a doctor from the safety of their home rather than risk becoming infected, or making a tremendously long trip, when frankly youll speak to a great doctor right from your home. Its happening, telehealth. Were very much at the forefront of that too. Were very proud of it. And it also takes a big burden off our system.  We continue to accelerate the development of safe and effective vaccines. Were also aggressively investigating a number of antiviral therapies and treatments to determine their potential in reducing the severity and duration of the symptoms. And you know how I feel because how I feel is on Tuesday, theyre going to be starting it on Tuesday morning, and were going to have some medications delivered that were going to see if they work.  They certainly are effective in other ways and they are safe from the standpoint is that theyre not killing people. Were not going to have that. So a lot of great things have been happening in that regard. I just want to finish and then were going to ask a couple of people to say a few words that have been so much in the forefront of this incredible job that weve all been given.  But I want to say that I know that this is a challenging time for all Americans. Were enduring a great national trial and we will prove that we can meet the moment. I want to assure the American people that were doing everything we can each day to confront and ultimately defeat this horrible invisible enemy. Were at war. In a true sense, were at war. And were fighting an invisible enemy. Think of that.  For those of you who are feeling alone and isolated, I want you to know that we are all joined together as one people eternally linked by our shared national spirit. We love our country, a spirit of courage and love and patriotism. No American is alone as long as we are united. And we are united, were very united. People are saying things now that three weeks ago they didnt talk that way. Were very united.  No force is equal to the strength of really a unified America, united America, an America like we have it right now. For those worried and afraid, please know as long as I am your president, you can feel confident that you have a leader who will always fight for you. And I will not stop until we win. This will be a great victory. This is going to be a victory. And its going to be a victory that in my opinion, will happen much sooner than originally expected.  Its now attacking. The enemy is attacking 144 countries at this moment, 144 thats unthinkable. Theres never been anything like this. And its vicious. It is vicious. Some people recover well. And some people have a hard time. We all know that, but we will be totally victorious. We will then get our economy up to a level that it was and in my opinion beyond, because that will be a pent up demand. There is a pent up demand. And a lot of great things will happen. But Im very proud of our country. Im very proud. Im very proud to be your president. And its just something thats just, youre very special people. So thank you very much. And Im going to ask if I might, combination of Pete, why dont you start off. Okay? Please. Thank you. Thank you, Pete, very much. Good job. Peter Navarro? Thank you, Pete, very much. Good job. Mike Pence. Thank you, Mike, very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mike.  So just a couple of little things, then well take some questions. Maybe you will have some, maybe you wont. Thatd be a shock. Youll shock the American public.  But I have to say on the testing if this works out and we think it might, the new test will be a very simple one and much easier than the existing test, which is quite complex and not a lot of fun to take. And this will be a game changer.  But remember we inherited a broken, obsolete system. It was good for a small number of people, but not good for the millions of people that were talking about. And weve made this into a system that no matter where you go in the world, thats where theyre going. Thats what they want to do. Thats how theyre going to be doing it, should something like this happen again.  So our people have done a fantastic job, really a fantastic job and I hope the new test works out. Well know fairly soon. I think, doctor, were going to be knowing about that fairly soon. Hopefully, itll check out or test out and we certainly are looking forward to that. Thatll be a very simple test by comparison. Wont be unpleasant at all.  One other thing: the ships. We have the Mercy and its going to California, as you know. Its on the West Coast now. And you have a sister ship; its essentially a twin. Theyre incredible. I mean, theyre incredible ships.  Ive seen it. Ive seen one of them and they are unbelievable what they can do and the capacity. Many operating rooms. Theyre wartime ships. They are meant for war. Many, many operating rooms. Stainless steel, these rooms are as good as there is anywhere in the nation, actually.  I spoke with Governor Cuomo. We had a great conversation today, a number of conversations, actually. Hes working very hard. And we are going to be bringing that ship thats called the Comfort. So you have the Mercy and the Comfort. The Comforts on the East Coast and that ship will be coming over the next three weeks, three or four weeks. It was in the middle of maintenance and we are moving the maintenance very, very quickly.  Were also supplying the ship simultaneously. Its actually big supplies going into those ships. Big. And that ship will be coming up here over the next few weeks and well probably be putting it in New York Harbor. Were making arrangements for that also, as to where its going to be docked.  So you have the Mercy and you have the Comfort. Theyll be coming up. The Mercy will start very, very quickly. Itll be arriving in Los Angeles pretty soon, so we look forward to that.  A question? ABC, go ahead. Gee, I think it was quite a while ago. I dont know. Its been a long time. Who are they, please? Who are they? I guess Rick is coming out. Romneys in isolation? Gee, thats too bad. Go ahead. No, no. None whatsoever. I was thinking about it today and Im saying you could have a lot of senators, a lot of House members. I spoke last night with a very, very good man who happens to be in the House, as you know, and hes just started and he tested positive. So you could have a large number of people in there from Congress. You could have between House and Senate, you could have a large number.  I think its something, at least  I mean, I fully understand why you should be there. I think it may be a constitutional reason why you should. But if we could be in a position where, I would certainly be in favor of it, where they could vote from a certain outside location. I would be in favor of it.  I was thinking about it today. I mean, we could be in this  Look, with whats going on, nobodys ever seen anything like this. You could have a lot of people in there from Congress. And it would certainly be  They tell me theres a reason constitutionally and there may be, but I would be totally in favor of it on a temporary basis. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we have an interesting thing. You know, we all want to get to the same place, but we have different  And I just wrote this down just a little while ago. We want to protect the worker very much. So do they, so do the Democrats. We also want to protect the worker through their companies.  We dont want to necessarily  Were going to help the worker anyway. But ideally, they can go back to one of their great companies.  You have great companies that are in financial trouble now, and we need money to help those companies so they get back into where they should be: health. Most of these companies four weeks ago were having the best year theyve ever had. Last year was the best year.  Almost all of them other than Boeing, which is, incredibly, had problems. Big percentage of GDP. But we have to be able to work with Boeing. Boeing was a great company and will be a great company again I think shortly. So we have to work with the companies and they dont want to do that. Its crazy. They dont want to do that.  I dont want to stock buybacks, so I dont know where the problem is there. But I know thats one of the things that theyre talking about. I do not want stock buybacks. I dont want to give a bailout to a company and then have somebody go out and use that money to buy back stock in the company and raise the price and then get a bonus. Okay?  So I may be Republican, but I dont like that. I want them to use the money for the workers. I want them to use the money for the company, to help the company. In the airline business, to take care of their planes and all of the things they have to do, including buying new planes.  But I dont want to have any stock buybacks. The Democrats are with me. I dont know what the problem is on that one, because I cant imagine that is too tough. We want to be able to take care of our people.  Youre going to have things coming up. Were going to have some of the elements that theyre talking about. Theyre down to, I mean, literally 95% of things that you would think that they wouldnt agree and youd think the Republicans wouldnt agree to it.  Unemployment, as an example, is one of the things they talk about and unemployment insurance. I think were very close on that. But right now theyre not, so right now theyre not there. But I think that the Democrats want to get there and I can tell you for a fact the Republicans want to get there.  I dont think anybody actually has a choice. Its a bold package. Its a big package. One of the things is we do have money for saving small businesses. I dont imagine the Democrats, because we have a lot of money set aside for small businesses.  We also have a lot of money set aside for big businesses. You know the big, powerful companies that were powerful four weeks ago and today theyre overextended.  Look at the cruise line. Thats a tremendous business, a big business, very important to Florida. And its unthinkable a month ago, it just unthinkable. They were setting all sorts of records, theyre building new ships.  We cant let the cruise lines go out of business. I mean, that would be massive numbers of jobs for our country and actually for the world. But for our country, its a massive business and it doesnt take much to keep them going. So we have to provide for that.  But I think both the Democrats and the Republicans are agreed that we have to take care of our workers. And were going to be doing that in numerous ways, including a substantial cash payment.  Yeah, please. Well, it depends which governors youre talking about. Well, we are using it now. The fact that I signed it, its in effect, but were a country not based on nationalizing our business. Call a person over in Venezuela, ask them how did nationalization of their businesses work out, not too well. The concept of nationalizing our business is not a good concept, but Ill tell you why. As Peter said, we may have to use it someplace along the chain, but were getting calls. Heres the beauty of it. If we go out and we want, lets say masks, we dont know who to call on mask, but Hanes who makes things of cotton, various elements, lots of things. Its a great company. They called us and they said, were going to make millions of masks. We got a call today from 3M, theres a big article today. The head of 3M. They are going to make tremendous products and theyre more or less in that business.  And if theyre not, like for instance, General Motors spoke to us, Ford spoke to us about doing ventilators. The beauty is theyre calling us. If you go the national route, nationalization route, were going to tell a company to make a ventilator. They dont even know what a ventilator is. In the case of one company, they used to make them years ago and they know how to make them. Its a very complex piece of equipment, frankly. So what were doing is, I think Peter said it may be better than anybodys going to say it. We have the threat of doing it if we need it, we may have to use it somewhere along the supply chain in a minor way, but we have millions of masks being done. We have respirators, we have ventilators. We have a lot of things happening right now.  So just the threat of using it, but using its actually a big deal. I mean, when this was announced, it sent tremors through our business community and through our country, because basically what are you doing? Youre talking about youre going to nationalize an industry or youre going to nationalize, youre going to take away companies, youre going to tell companies what to do. The truth is most people, nobody would know where to start. There are companies out there that you wouldnt think of that have called us that say, We can do ventilators. We used to do them years ago. And they can do them in large quantities. If I call companies and say, You build ventilators, they dont even know what a ventilator is.  So its really working out very well. One of the reasons I read the numbers to you is because weve given vast numbers of just about everything. Weve taken it out of our supply, and were restocking our supply. But were really backing up the governors. The governors have to go out and do their things and you have a lot of governors, theyve done a fantastic job. You have some that havent. Usually, its the ones that complain that have the problems. But weve had a great relationship as an example with Governor Cuomo, with Governor Newsome. Weve had a great relationship with the state of Washington. Those are three hotbeds. Those are three hotbeds. Now, were also dealing with other states. As the Admiral said yesterday, were dealing with all of the states actually in one form or another. Some are very affected in a very minor way where you have two people or three people, and I dont even mean deaths. I mean literally cases. And thats different than New York, where you have tremendous where everybody, I lived there for a long time. Everybodys extremely close, tight, and you have a lot of cases in New York. You have a lot of cases in New York, and were helping Governor Cuomo, were helping Governor Newsome. Frankly, theyve been total gentlemen. They want to get it done and we want to get it done. But doing it the way were doing it is much better. Its really much better. But it all comes from Yeah, I know. Youre right. We coordinate with the states and we are coordinating with the states, and for the most part the coordination has been very good. Look, three days ago I had a phone call with all the governors. I actually allowed the press to stay. They werent supposed to stay. And one person in the media said That was surprising. Its actually a little risky doing that. Because we had Democrats and we had Republicans, and theyre politicians, and they always have something to say. Well, I took a lot of calls, and we really didnt get one nasty or bad response. They were thanking us for the job we did.  And I had the press standing, I dont know if you were there. I dont think so. I had the press standing there watching. They werent supposed to be there, but I said Let them stand there. The governors were very complimentary, very, very complimentary. And I watched over the last few days, Governor Cuomo, I watched Gavin Newsome in California, I watched both of them. And theyve been very complimentary. And those are really the hotbeds, and so we want to keep that going. Im very proud of this country and Im frankly very proud of a lot of the politicians that normally were fighting with. We have different views on things, a little different view, but were going to get to the same place. We have different views, but were going to get to the same place. Yes, please. We have been asked about that and were going to take a look at it. Its a bit of a problem, but when we talk about totally nonviolent, were talking about totally nonviolent prisoners. We are actually looking at that. Yes. Go ahead real quick. Well, I could ask Anybody? Would you like to take that one, Bob? But this is just like all of the other stuff that you, not you, but that the press was asking, all of which turned out to be, we actually gave CDC more money, not less money. They said we defunded, it turned out it was more money. Every one of those things that were said were 100% wrong. And this sounds like another one of them. But anyway, go ahead. And I wish, again, our relationship with China is a very good relationship. I wish they told us three months sooner that this was a problem. We didnt know about it. They knew about it, and they should have told us. We could have saved a lot of lives throughout the world. If you look at whats happening in Italy, in Spain, and a lot of other countries, we could have saved a lot of lives throughout the world. Kelly? Well, I hope we wont have to. Its possible, but well have to see how that works. As far as the Senate is concerned, we are looking at some of the folks who are feeling very good, some are quarantine, but theyre negative. They may be totally fine. Others are positive. Were just finding this now for the first time. I mean over the last two days we found that. No, I dont see any threats at all. Honestly, I dont see any threats at all. Itll all work out. It is a question and a very good question, I thought, that we are considering. Now, I dont know if you can do it constitutionally, but we are considering letting people vote senators, congressmen and women, vote from a separate location. From an outside, namely a hospital or a home, depending on where they are. So we are looking at that. Its a little trickier question most people would believe, but we are looking at that very strongly. Well, were dealing with them all the time. And were dealing with Mitch. Were dealing with the other side. Everybody wants to get there. Well see what happens. I think youll get there. To me, its not very complicated. We have to help the worker. We have to save the companies. Because as soon as were finished with this war, its not a battle. Its a war. As soon as were finished with this war, our country is going to bounce back like youve never seen before.  But, we have to get into that position, and we have to make sure that those companies are whole, that they havent been disbanded. Because if you do that, its going to take much longer. So in a way its being penny wise if you dont, but we want to help the worker. We want to help the companies that the workers come from, because if those companies go out of business, and that includes small businesses. We have a tremendous amount of small business work in there. You know that. Once they go out and they dont come back, thats a much longer period of building. Bad things were happening to her in a certain country, and were really under the feeling that we should keep it somewhat private until shes already been freed, and I have to tell you General Milley and his people were unbelievable. They were not playing games. General Milley does not play games. Hes a very interesting guy. They got her out. They got her out of a certain situation where she was seriously abused, accosted. And whatever the maximum word is other than death. That happened. But we got her out and shes okay and shes back with her parents. Yes. Look, I have the best people in the world. I think were doing an extraordinary job. If you look in, lets say the H1N1, you look at that whole, that was a disaster. That was a tough period of time for our country. You look at so many other things that werent handled very well, whether its Katrina or something else. Look, I respect everybody, but I feel I have an incredible team and I think were doing an incredible job. When you look at the job were doing, and all you have to do is look at the approval numbers on the job were doing. I think were doing an incredible job, so I dont want to disturb them, bother them. I dont think Im going to learn much, and I guess you could say that theres probably a natural inclination not to call. Now, if I felt that if I called, Id learn something, and that would save one life, it would save one life. Okay. I would make the call in two minutes, but I dont see that happening. Please. Im of the opinion we have to do great during these 14 days, during the 15 day period. Well know at the end of 14 days pretty much were going to have a pretty good idea how were doing. I think you have to shut it down and you have to see, but therell be a point at which we say Were back in business. Lets go. Those two statements are not mutually exclusive, if you understand. I saw both of them today and they sort of intermesh. Hes calling for a faster, just a brutal shutdown, and then open up maybe a little bit faster. So theres that fine line. Look, we did a big shutdown when we wouldnt allow people from China that could have been very seriously infected that were when we cut that off very early, and then we cut Europe off very early as you know. So that was also very . Well, I cant tell you that. What I have to say is that I think were going to have good results. I think the American people have been amazing. I think our stimulus package will get done and it will be a tremendous package. They may not have gotten those votes, but theyre very close to getting a deal done. So Id be surprised if they didnt. And if they dont, I think frankly the American people will be very upset with the Democrats because the Republicans are ready to approve a deal. So the only reason the deal couldnt get done is pure politics. Yes, please. Well, he should have the hospital systems in various places. Some have been stocked and ready to go for Nothing for this. Nothing. This is beyond anything that anybody ever thought possible. I think you could really say this. Nobody can really, Dr. Nobody can really say, Oh gee, this will happen. This is a very unique and hopefully it will be unique for many, many centuries for a long time. Hopefully we dont see this again. But again, the systems are supposed to be ready, willing, and able. This is supposed to be ready to go. We are helping them a lot, and I have great love for New York City and I have great love for New York state. And were going to help them a lot.  I mean, I was just saying were sending our ships up there. Were sending more than just this ship. We may be using, if we need, well be using some of the cruise ships that youve been reading about. Well be using them also because theyre very immediate and very quick. They can be there very quickly. We have good docking systems in the places that were talking about. So we may be using some of the cruise liners that were talking about. But no. I mean I think Bill de Blasio is working very hard. I think hes trying very hard. Its a tough situation for him and every mayor because nobodys ever seen the scale. When you hear youve given millions of masks and youve given hundreds of thousands of masks in a certain short period of time, and then you hear they need many, many more.  One of the things they have started with respect to masks is the sterilization process. Some, it works very well. Others arent really set up that way. You throw them out. But we have a sterilization process thats working very hard. Speaking of that, hand sanitizers, when you asked the question on the companies and whats going on, we have many companies now, companies that made whiskey, theyd made alcohol, theyve now gone very quickly into the hand sanitizers. And all of you know, youve been reading about three or four big companies, were doing incredibly well on that.  There was no way if you took the existing companies that something like that could happen. But it happens almost Theyll call Peter Navarro, or theyll call somebody. On one case they called me, they said, We can do this, we can do that. Weve had a lot of those calls where companies want to Theres a company in New Hampshire, a great company, they want to make ventilators. Id never thought of them for ventilators, but they do make metal equipment and things that have metal. Therell be great. Theyll make a great product. So Peter, I think youre seeing a lot of that. Please. Well every time I do it, like for instance, I committed publicly that I wouldnt take the $450,000 salary. Its a lot of money. Whether youre rich or not, its a lot of money and I did it. Nobody cared. Nobody said Thank you. Nobody said Thank you very much. Now, I didnt commit legal. I just said, I dont want it. I dont want my salary. I work for zero. I dont want my salary. Nobody said, Oh, thank you very much, but I guarantee you if I ever took it, you would go out after me. You in particular, would go out after me like crazy. So I have no idea what theyre talking about with regard to the one element. Everythings changing, just so you understand. Its all changing. But I have no idea.  But every time I commit to do something, I committed to do Look, I ran and everybody knew I was a rich person. I built a great company and people knew that, but I agreed to do things I didnt have to, I still dont have to. But my company, I told the kids who are running it, Im not running it. But I told them, Dont deal with foreign companies. Dont deal. I didnt have to do that. I couldve just ran and I didnt have to do that at all. And instead of being thanked for, again not agreeing to do it, but just for not doing it, I get excoriated all the time. So Ive learned, lets just see what happens because we have to save some of these great companies that can be great companies literally in a matter of weeks. We have to save them. Yeah, please. Sure. Pete, go ahead. If we need them. I hope we dont need them. I hope youre going to have great luck on Tuesday morning. We sent a lot of the medicine, we dont have to go into it again, but we sent a lot of the medicine to Governor Cuomo. I believe they already have it, and they have some very capable people. We spoke to Dr. Zucker who is his primary representative on this, and we spoke to the governor himself, and I think hes excited about it like Im excited about it. Now, will it work? I think it has a really good chance. I think its worthwhile. Why should we be testing it in a test tube for a year and a half when we have thousands of people that are very sick? Theyre very, very sick. And we can use it on those people, and maybe make them better, and in some cases maybe saved their lives.  So Governor Cuomo told me theyll be using their supply, starting their supply on Tuesday morning. I think its very exciting, I think because if that happens, much of what were talking about with ships and hospitals and all of the things that were doing, and all of these masks and everything that were ordering, ventilators, its a whole different game if that happens. And well see. Theres been some tremendous signs that this could work. Now again, some doctors think it should go for years on testing, but this has been something thats been around for many years. Its been phenomenal, strong, powerful drug for malaria.  But we think it might work on this based on evidence, based on very strong evidence. Were going to see, were going to know sometime after Tuesday. But youll have to ask Governor Cuomo, I think theyre going to start the process. Weve gotten them the drug. I think theyre going to start the process of giving the drug through mouth. And I think that starts on Tuesday morning, he said. And thatll be, I mean, Ill tell you what. I dont want to get anybody overly excited, but Im very excited by that, by the prospect of it. Then in addition to that, NIH is working on vaccines and all. Theyre making great progress, but the vaccine does have to be tested for a long period of time because you cant give thousands millions of people a vaccine and it turns out to be dangerous. So that does have to be tested. But this ones been taken for a long time, so we know pretty much one result. Yeah, please. Well, I dont want to exactly say that. But I have spoken to president Xi about this, specifically about this. And look, he doesnt want this, this is not something that he wants. And it happened, it happened to China. And one thing they told me, I was told by our great Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, that Chinas been buying a lot of our farm product. And Im looking at different pricing, but China has, despite all of this. And it started, this delayed it a little bit obviously, but it started fairly recently. But China is buying We made a new deal as you know, with China, very big trade deal. And China has been buying our agricultural product. Yes. In fact, they are sending masks to Italy. Were in a very good process with masks, but Im a little upset with China, Ill be honest with you. Because as much as I like president Xi and as much as I respect the country and and admire the country, I have great admiration for the country, what theyve done in short period of time. Of course our presidents, our previous presidents allowed that to happen. You should say thank you very much to all of them, but they should have told us about this. And I did ask him whether or not we could send some people in, they didnt want that, out of pride. I think really out of pride.  They dont want us sending people into China to help them. Chinas strong country. They have their scientists and they have their doctors. Very smart. A lot of people, but I did discuss that about sending our people in and they didnt really respond. We went again, they didnt respond. If they went in, they would have been able to tell us, give us a much earlier indication, but we had an early indication. Thats why I closed out China. I mean, I felt it was my instinct, but thats why I closed out China at a very early time. Please. Its really a fair question. I think Ill let Would you like to answer that question? Please, please. Surgeon General. Yes. Ill answer that, and if thats not the policy, Ill make it the policy. And I was just saying as Mike was saying that the answer is, yes, we will do those tests, because I think in that case its important. I think that if you could say illegal alien, you could say illegal immigrant, you could say whatever you want to use your definition of what youre talking about, were all talking about the same thing, yes, we will test that person. Because I think its important that we test that person and we dont want to send that person back into wherever were going to be sending the person, whether its another country or someplace else because were now bringing them right out of our country. But yeah, we will test those people. Okay? Do you need a test? He better not. He better not. He wasnt happy.  You know, everybody that knows Karen Pence, knows this, because the Vice President told me. He said, She actually handled it better than him. Right? Thats true, right? I didnt handle so well either, dont worry about it. Sure, with numerous countries. If they need help, well give them help. Theres nobody has what we have, especially with the new tests that are coming out. North Korea, Iran by the way, and others, we are open for helping other countries and is a very serious time, and North Koreas going through something. Iran is going through something very, very strong. Iran is really going through it, very difficult period with respect to this as you know. Its really a glad hand. Its all it is to North Korea, to Iran, and to many other countries, and were working with as the doctor can say, were working with many countries with respect to the problems that they have.  Again, its over 140 countries right now, but North Korea, Iran, and many other countries, we will help and were willing to, as an example, this new test. If this new test works at where instead of going through what we all went through with this rather difficult test, to put it nicely, is that just a swab on the tongue, doctor? How does that work? Not to the same . It doesnt go all the way up and hangs a right under your eye. Right? Its a tough test. So if we do that, the procedure, the test, and nobody has this in the world, nobody has this. This is developed by us. We think its going to be certified soon. We think its going to be very good. But if we have that, well be able to help a lot of countries. Were going to work with everybody and see if we can get something done. Please. Yeah, well work with whoever we have to. We have to help the American worker. We have to help the countries from which the American workers, I mean, they came out of these companies. They were doing phenomenally well. You saw where payroll was going way up, where wages were going way, way up. Theres never been a time like this. We cant lose those companies and we want the worker to be happy, and were being, I think, more generous than anybodys ever been. We want to take care of the worker, but we want to make sure that when we win the war, its only a question of its when, not if, when we win the war against the virus, we want to make sure those companies that are ready to charge forward, not that theyd been disbanded because we were penny wise and dollar foolish. Well, we were asked that question a little while ago, and the answer is we may, but we may not need it. We do a very high standard. Our standard is higher. Please. Were going to see what happens. Hopefully we wont need it, but we might, but were going to see what happens. Look, the greatest thing we can do is win the war. The war is against the virus. Thats the war. We do that, everything, I really believe everythings going to fall into place. Its going to be beautiful. I call it a pent up demand. People are dying to go out to a restaurant. People are dying to go onto airplanes. I think theres a tremendous pent up demand. You may be surprised to the degree. I think its going to go very rapidly because this wasnt a financial crisis, just the opposite, this was a medical crisis. No. I dont have stock. I own things. I didnt even think about it. You know, its very interesting that you ask a question like that, nasty question and yet it deserves to be asked, I guess. What Ive done by deciding to run, and I knew this, I knew this the first day. I said, If I win, its going to cost a lot of money. It cost me billions of dollars to become President, to be President of the United States. In things that would normally be run at a certain thing. Even people that dont like me because they think Im too tough on the border. Now some people love me for it. Other people dont like me at all. You know, its very funny. My wife, we were at a charity event in New York City. I had just announced that I was running, and we were at the Robin Hood Foundation at the Convention Center, which now were going to be converting to hospitals for Governor Cuomo, and I was walking in and there was a smattering of booze and a smattering of cheers.  I was getting both. And our very popular first lady, shes turned out to be very popular, people have great respect for, but our very popular first lady said to me, Huh, thats strange. Ive never heard anybody booing you. That was very early on, because I think I called for strong borders, or I called for something that other people dont like, and I knew this would happen. I knew it was going to happen, but the fact that I ran, and I knew as soon as they announced, when I ran, I said, Its going to cost me a fortune, not only in terms of actual costs. Look at my legal costs. You people, everybody, everybody is suing me. Im being sued by people that I never even heard of. Im being sued all over the place and doing very well, but its unfair. But Ill say this. In terms of running for President and I dont think rich people, Michael Bloomberg spent now its determined almost a billion dollars and look what happened.  I think its very hard for rich people to run for office. Its far more costly. Its a very tough thing. Now, with all of that being said, Im so glad Ive done it because you know, there are a lot of rich people around, got a lot of rich friends, but they cant help, and they cant do what Ive done in terms of helping this country. We are doing things. We got sidetracked by the invisible enemy. But you know what? When you look at what weve done, I said before with the veterans, with all of the things weve done, especially choice, but when you look at all of accountability, when you look at all of the things that weve done, rebuilding the military, the tax cuts, which thank goodness we had the tax cuts because we had cushion.  Oh, and without that, this would have been catastrophic. We had a big cushion. I mean with all of the losses that youve seen in the stock market, were basically back, and with this horrible thing. If this wouldve happened before, you would have had nothing left. This was all cushion. But I will say that it costs me billions of dollars to be President. And especially with all the money I could have made for the last three, four years, and I didnt because I was being President. I have no interest in it. Im allowed to. I dont know if you know. George Washington, they say he was a rich man supposedly, relatively rich, and he ran the presidency and he also ran his business. They say he had two desks. Nobody complained until I came along. I got elected as a rich person, but nobody complained until I came along.  So it cost me billions of dollars to be President, and I am so happy I did it because who cares? Who cares? Im really happy with the job were doing, and Im glad that this team and me are here for this horrible thing. I mean, a number of people have said it, and I feel it actually. Im a wartime President. This is a war. This is a war, different kind of a war that weve ever had. And when you look at the economics of the war, in the past, we used to stimulate to get people jobs. Now were stimulating to protect people because we dont want them to work because we want them to stay away from each other. We dont want them to gather social, social gathering. So were paying billions of dollars, more than that, so that they dont gather, because we have to defeat this virus and we will. But it cost me billions and billions of dollars to be President, and I am so happy I did it. Well, we do help foreign countries. That was the other question and Im honored to help and the doctor has helped. The Surgeon General is speaking to other countries all the time. Theyre asking him questions, what do we do? Nobodys ever seen anything like this. Theyre calling our people all of the time and yes, I have let it be known that well help people, including North Korea, including Iran, and including many other countries. Its very important to do this. So no, not in the stimulus bill, but we are very much, I mean, we give away billions of dollars for, as an example, AIDS in Africa. Were still fighting that battle. Its a tremendous battle, tremendous war also, but were fighting it here. As you know, in 10 years, now its eight years because I started it. It should have been started long before I got here because they had the answer even before, but were fighting that battle. Well be AIDS free in approximately eight years. It looks like that is going to happen. Were spending a lot of money, but were spending a lot of money with other countries. If you look at the aid that we give to other countries, we give billions and billions and billions of dollars to other countries, and a lot of times I say, You know, we could save a lot of money. We shouldnt have, and then they come in. I say, Whats it used for?  Its used to fight malaria in countries that are very poor. Its used to fight AIDS in Africa. Its used to fight many other things, many other things. And I dont think Ive ever said, No, I cant. Its just so terrible. Countries that we have, really, were not involved with them very much other than there would be tremendous death, tremendous death. I mean, you can get a list and I could get you a list. We give away billions of dollars to other countries, and we are giving away a lot in terms of everything, and probably well end up doing economically doing something for other countries. But when Im presented with these lists, that yes sir, in Africa, were fighting AIDS, or fighting something else. I tell you what, I start off by saying, You know, we should say we could save a lot of money, and then by the time they walk those lists into my office, I say, We have to keep doing that. Thats humanity youre talking. How about one more question? Yes. Well, states have to go, thats a great Governor. Youre talking about Greg Abbott in Texas, and hes a great Governor, and he knows what hes doing. A lot of the areas that hes talking about, a lot of the counties hes talking about are not very strongly affected. Its a very different kind of a place and a great place, but I have total confidence in Governor Greg Abbott. Yeah, sure, because every state is different. Every state is different. I mean, Idaho, West Virginia, Iowa, Nebraska are much different than New York, than California, Los Angeles as an example, or San Francisco, theyre much different. I mean, its much different. The hotspots right now are state of Washington, and probably number one by far right now is New York. Thats the hotspot like no other hotspot, and Californias a hotspot. But New York right now is the leader. Theres no question. All right, final question. Well, thats a lawsuit coming out of Texas again, that was headed up by Texas, and what we want to do is get rid of the bad healthcare and put in a great healthcare, and we will always, I will say this, I can make this commitment to you, the Republican party is fully backing preexisting conditions. Now, if we could get a great healthcare plan, which would need the House to do, but if we can get a great healthcare plan, we will only do it if we have preexisting conditions totally backed. So were back in preexisting, but wed like to get rid of bad health healthcare. Now, we are running the bad healthcare much better than it was ever run and were making it better. But it could be much better than it is. And so what we want to do is terminate it, have a great healthcare, but we will only do it with preexisting. We will back preexisting conditions. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Well be back. Well have a meeting tomorrow. .  Oh, did it take? I watched Jose on NBC the other night. Okay."
"Well, thank you very much, and I see we have fewer people because of the virus problem, and we appreciate you being here. This is getting to be more and more social distancing and thats fine, thats the way it should be, and its too bad. We extend our best wishes to the person affected and we feel sure that he or she will be better very soon.  Thank you for being here. America continues to mobilize every segment of our society to turn the tide in the battle against the virus. I want Americans to know that we will get through this challenge, the hardship will end, it will end soon, normal life will return and our economy will rebound very, very strongly, but right now in the midst of this great national trial, Americans must remain united in purpose and focused on victory. To every single American, please know that the sacrifice youre making at this time is saving lives many, many lives.  Its very important that we totally protect our Asian American community in the United States and all around the world. Theyre amazing people and the spreading of the virus is not their fault in any way, shape or form. Theyre working closely with us to get rid of it. We will prevail together. Its very important. From the beginning, we have been working closely with our nations best scientists and medical professionals and we will continue to do so until we have defeated the virus. Our public health experts, who are terrific, are studying the variation in the disease across the country and we will be using data to recommend new protocols to allow local economies to cautiously resume their activity at the appropriate time. We also have a large team working on what the next steps will be once the medical community gives a region the okay, meaning the okay to get going, to get back Lets go to work.  Our country wasnt built to be shut down. This is not a country that was built for this. It was not built to be shut down. My administration continues to work with Democrats and Republicans to reach an agreement on an urgent relief bill for the millions of American workers, and small businesses and large businesses that were badly affected by the medical difficulty that weve had. If you had a viable business in January, we are committed to ensuring the same is true in the coming weeks. In fact, we want to make it even better than it was before and were doing things to help in that regard. America will again, and soon be open for business. Very soon. A lot sooner than three or four months that somebody was suggesting. A lot sooner.  We can not let the cure be worse than the problem itself. Were not going to let the cure be worse than the problem. At the end of the 15 day period well make a decision as to which way we want to go, where we want to go, the timing, and essentially were referring to the timing of the opening, essentially the opening of our country, because we have it pretty well shut down in order to get rid of this invisible enemy.  Two weeks ago we moved at record speed to pass paid sick leave and paid family medical leave, and approved $8 billion including money for the development of treatments and vaccines, and were doing tremendous work in both, on both fronts. The vaccines are coming along very quickly. Now, Congress must demonstrate the same bipartisanship again and join together to pass the Senate bill as written and avoid playing anymore partisan games. They have to get together and just stop with the partisan politics, and I think thats happening. I got a call a little while ago, I guess theyre getting closer. It should go quickly, and it must go quickly. Its not really choice. They dont have a choice, they have to make a deal. This should not be a time for political agendas, but rather one for focusing solely and squarely on the needs of the American people. We are going to save American workers and were going to save them quickly, and were going to save our great American companies, both small and large. This was a medical problem, we are not going to let it turn into a long lasting financial problem.  It started out as a purely medical problem and its not going to go beyond that. Were just not going to allow that to happen. Our country was at its strongest financial point, weve never had an economy like we had just a few weeks ago, and then it got a hit with something that nobody could have ever thought possible, and we are fixing it. Were fixing it quickly, and I want to just thank the American people for what theyve been through and what theyre doing. Our country will be stronger than ever before and we fully anticipate that, and it wont be that long.  Let me provide you with an update on critical supplies. FEMA is distributing 8,000,095 respirator masks and 13.3 million surgical masks across the country right now, focusing on the areas with the greatest need. We have shipped 73 pallets of personal protective equipment to New York City and 36 pallets to the state of Washington. In the past 96 hours, FEMA has also received donations of approximately 6.5 million masks. Were having millions and millions of masks made as we speak, and other personal protective equipment which we will be distributing to medical hotspots. Were focused on some of the hotspots across the nation. Were seeing an outpouring of creativity and innovative ideas widely shared between the federal health leaders, governors and mayors, the scientific community and members of the private sector really working together. Everybodys working together.  Im pleased to report that clinical trials in New York will begin existing for existing drugs that may prove effective against the virus. At my direction, the federal government is working to help obtain large quantities of flororoquin, and you can look from any standpoint tomorrow in New York, we think tomorrow pretty early. The hydroxychloroquine and the Z-Pak, I think as a combination probably is looking very, very good and its going to be distributed. We have 10,000 units going, and itll be distributed tomorrow. Itll be available, and it is now. They already have it. Theyre going to distribute it tomorrow morning to a lot of people in New York City and New York. Were studying it very closely, watching it very closely. You probably saw a couple of articles today came out where a gentleman, they thought he was not going to make it, he said goodbye to his family, they had given him the drug just a little while before, but he thought it was over. His family thought he was going to die, and a number of hours later he woke up, felt good. Then he woke up again and he felt really good, and hes in good shape, and hes very happy for this particular drug that we got approved in record setting time.  Theres never been anything even close to it, and I want to thank the FDA, which has been incredible, and Dr. Hahn, Stephen Hahn, a highly respected man, but theyre doing everything possible to increase production and available supply of these drugs, not only this drug but also others that are coming. Remdesivir is coming from Regeneron, a couple of others are also under study, but the one that Im very excited about right now is the one we just mentioned, and I think theres a real chance, I mean, again, we dont know, but theres a real chance that it could have a tremendous impact. It would be a gift from God if that worked. It would be a big game changer, so well see, but distribution starts tomorrow morning early in New York and I think a lot of people are going to be, hopefully theyre going to be very happy with the result, but were all going to be watching closely. Its something we have to try. Its been very, very successful on Malaria, very, very successful, and countries with Malaria have had an interesting thing happen. They take this particular drug, its a very powerful drug, and there is very little semblance of the virus in those countries, and there are those that say because this drug is very prevalent because of the Malaria, so well see what happens.  Im also announcing that were postponing the deadline for compliance with real ID requirements at a time when were asking Americans to maintain social distancing. We do want to require people to go with their local DMV. We will be announcing the new deadline very soon. Its going to be announced in a very short moment.  Over night, we successfully brought home 103 American citizens after they had been stranded for 10 days in Brazil following a cruise. We want to thank the Brazilian government and their great president. Most of those returned were senior citizens. My administration, in cooperation with Governor Greg Abbott of Texas and the private sector coordinated their safe return to the United States, so thank you to Governor Abbott, a terrific governor, terrific man.  Earlier today I signed an executive order invoking presidential authority under Section 45-12 of the Defense Production act to prohibit the hoarding of vital medical equipment and supplies such as hand sanitizers, face masks and personal protective equipment. We have a lot of face masks, a lot of equipment just coming in, and we have some people hoarding, and Attorney General Barrs going to be speaking about that in a second. We want to prevent price gouging and critical health and medical resources are going to be protected in every form. Under this directive the Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized to designate essential health and medical supplies as scarce, so hell designate certain supplies and medical elements as scarce, and that means it will be a crime to stockpile these items in excessive quantities, which is happening to a relatively small degree we think, but nevertheless, its happening. We cant let it happen, and we cant let them resell them at excessive prices, which some people are doing. Very simply, will not allow anyone to exploit the suffering of American citizens for their own profit, so were going to be watching that with our great Attorney General very closely.  The Department of Justice will be aggressively prosecuting fraudulent schemes related to the pandemic. Yesterday, federal prosecutors took action in their first case, shutting down a website selling a totally fake vaccine, if you can believe that one. As president, I will always fight to protect Americans from being exploited. Thankfully, all throughout the country were witnessing extraordinary acts of compassion, benevolence and unity. Construction companies are donating masks by the hundreds of thousands, manufacturing workers are transforming their assembly lines, citizens are volunteering to deliver food and medicine to the elderly, were truly seeing America at its best. Were really seeing things that people never thought even could happen. Frankly, we never thought this could happen, but the way most Americans are working toward getting it solved and just doing what they have to do to make this go away has been incredible. Its been incredible.  I want to take a moment to thank the everyday heroes who are making our vast effort against the virus possible, and thank you to the healthcare workers and the first responders. These are very brave people. Thanks also to the hardworking men and women of Federal Express, UPS, the United States Postal Service, and the truckers who are maintaining our supply chains and supply lines. We thank you very much. Great job. We also want to give our regards and thanks to everyone at our grocery stores working the night shift so that shelves can be restocked, and the restaurant workers and delivery drivers keeping our families fed. So many of these restaurants, its incredible. Theyre doing a service where people come and they pick it up, delivery. Its been incredible what theyve been doing. A totally different business than they were in, other than they cook food. Other than that, its like a totally different business.  Most of all, I want to thank the American people for rising to the challenge and showing incredible courage, determination, patience, grace and grit. From New York to Seattle and everywhere in between, your acts of selflessness, and sacrifice and ingenuity are a powerful testament to the American character. Its really being shown. Its really showing up at a level that people are really respecting. All over the world, theyre respecting, and the world has problems. Were 148 countries now. 148 countries are affected by the invisible scourge, and all of the uplifting reflections of the American spirit are out there for everyone to see. Together, we will care for our fellow citizens and we will win this war, and well win it much sooner than people think and well be back in business as a country pretty soon. Youll be hearing about that also pretty soon.  Now, Id like to ask Attorney General Bill Barr to say a few words, and well take questions in a little while. Thank you. Thank you very much, .  Deborah? Deborah, please. Thank you very much, Deborah. . Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Of course I do. Its going to be bad and we have a lot of people dying from the flu. As you know, we have a very bad flu season on top of everything else. Its very bad. It looks like it could be over 50,000, and certainly this is going to be bad. Were trying to make it so that its much, much less bad and thats what were doing. I think were doing a very good job of it.  If you look at other countries, what theyve been through, and you look at the kind of numbers and compare them to ours, which is a much larger country than most, the numbers are pretty amazing. And it started with the fact that we stopped people from coming in from a highly infected area and that was a good thing to do. So yeah, its bad and obviously the numbers are going to increase with time, and then theyre going to start to decrease.  And were going to be opening our country up for business because our country was meant to be open and working with others but especially for our workers. And the engine for that whole system is we have to have companies and these companies are loved by our workers because theyre paying big salaries and big dollars to our workers. And were going to get it all going again very soon, hopefully very, very soon.  Please. Well, youll see what happens. I understand the question very well. Its a great question, but we can do two things at one time. I will say this, our countrys learned a lot. Weve learned about social distancing. Weve learned about the hands, weve learned about staying away at least during the time that this is even a little bit around this disease or whatever you want to call it. Many different names, you can go up many different names, but the virus while its around.  And we can start thinking about, as an example, parts of our country are very lightly effected, very small numbers. You look at a state, great governor, Pete Ricketts in Nebraska. You look at the kind of numbers they have out there. They have one of the great hospitals there too, relative to what were talking about. But you look at Nebraska, you look at Idaho, you look at Iowa. I could name many countries that are handling it very, very well and that are not affected to the same extent or frankly not even nearly to the extent of New York. Im dealing with the Governor Cuomo and were dealing very well together. Well be sending that ship up, by the way, as you know. We have a ship going to Los Angeles. The ship is coming out of a very large repair, so ready to go or very soon will be. And over the next three or four weeks thatll be coming up to New York. Well go to New York Harbor and itll be fully supplied, so theyre working on that right now. Well, I didnt say a week, but I said soon. Its going to be a soon. Its not going to be three or four months as some people were saying and a lot of people thought originally, but I would certainly let you answer. I think thats a great definition, and I will say were going to be watching our senior citizens very closely. Were going to be watching certain hotspots like New York, and within New York you have areas which are troubling and well be working with the governor and the mayor and everybody else on those spots.  But at the same time, at a certain point, we have to get open and we have to get moving. We dont want to lose these companies. We dont want to lose these workers. We want to take care of our workers, so well be doing something I think relatively quickly, but weve learned a lot during this period. This was a very necessary period. Tremendous information was gained, but we can do two things at one time.  And again, I say, we have a very active flu season, more active than most. Its looking like its heading to 50,000 or more deaths, deaths not cases. 50,000 deaths, thats a lot. And you look at automobile accidents, which are far greater than any numbers were talking about. That doesnt mean were going to tell everybody no more driving of cars. We have to do things to get our country open. But this has been an incredible period of learning and well have announcements over the next fairly short period as to the timing. John, please. Yeah. Ill let you answer him. Uh-oh. Whew. Thank you for saying that. Thank you very much. Well, they will be in place. At some point, were going to open up our country and its going to be fairly soon. Im not looking at months, I can tell you right now. Were going to be opening up our country and were going to be watching certain areas and were going to be practicing everything that Deborah is referring to right here. I mean, were going to be watching this very closely, but you cant keep it closed for years, okay.  This is going away. Were going to win the battle, but you have tremendous responsibility. We have jobs. We have people get tremendous anxiety and depression and you have suicides over things like this. When you have terrible economies, you have death probably, and I mean definitely would be in far greater numbers than the numbers that were talking about with regard to the virus. We have an obligation. We have a double obligation.  We have a great country. There is no country like it in the world and theres no economy like it in the world. I mean, we were just blazing. We were coming out with numbers that some numbers werent even reported because this had happened. They were meaningless. I got numbers about myself that were meaningless. Because by the time the numbers came in, its a whole different world with this.  But I will tell you that we can do both things, John. We can do them both at the same time. I mean, thats okay. What we have gone through is a tremendous learning process and weve also solved a lot of problems. But weve gone through a tremendous learning situation. Now, were building hospitals in New York. Were building hospitals in California. Were building hospitals in the state of Washington. Weve been in touch with the governors. Today I spoke with a man that I happened to like. I spoke with Phil in New Jersey and where were going to be doing something very meaningful in New Jersey. Were doing something I spoke with, JB Pritzker called me today. Were going to be helping them out in Illinois. Were doing a lot of things in Florida.  Were doing a lot of things between FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Admiral in your group in terms of the purchasing, thats what he does. He purchases. He supposed to be great. Ill tell you in about two days, but hes going to do a fantastic job. We have an incredibly talented group of people. But yeah, well be doing two things and three things at one time.  Well, at the same time though, were going to be watching very closely the hotspots. Were going to be taking care and watching very closely our senior citizens, especially those with a problem or an illness. Were going to be watching them very, very closely; and we can do that and have an open economy, have an open country. And we have to do that because that causes other problems and maybe it causes much bigger problems than the problem were talking about now. You understand. Jeff, please. I think the cure has been very tough. This has been very tough. This was an operation. This was somebody going to a doctor and saying, You need an operation, and weve had an operation. Weve learned a lot and we fixed a lot of problems. One of the things we fixed is if you look at the absolute system that this administration inherited, it wasnt meant for this. It was meant for a small group of people; and even for that, it was not very good and very obsolete.  We have a testing program now that will hopefully be able to be used for many years into the future should we have another event like this. I dont think youll have another event like this. This is very unique. You look back into time, you look back decades and decades. We can name them all. Even if you go back 10 years, you know you go back to 09, but that wasnt like this as it turned out. But they lost a lot of people. We were early. We were early,, Jeff because of the fact that we closed early. That was a big move. Please, . Yeah, go ahead, Jim. Well, its not change. No, were doing things Yeah. This was a learning experience for the people of the country. If whats changed? Well, I think weve learned a lot. I think that theres so much discipline now that we never had. Nobody ever said dont shake hands. I did actually before I became a politician. Once I became a politician then its hard getting used to not doing it because you do it with everybody. With literally thousands of people a week, youre shaking hands with big groups of people.  Weve learned a lot. Theres a great discipline that this whole country has learned having to do with distancing, having to do with shaking hands. I think a lot of its going to stay long after the viruses go and I really think its probably good practice anyway, but I think its going to stay long after the virus has gone.  We have to open our country because that causes problems that, in my opinion, could be far bigger problems, far bigger. Look, this is a severe medical situation that could cause problems far beyond the medical, and then increase the medical problems to things that had nothing to do with this original medical problem. We cant let that happen to our country. We have the greatest country in the world. Im not going to let that happen, but this two weeks that we have spent, has been an incredible learning period and process. Please, Kristin. I spoke to them today and I was telling them that we have two things to look forward. Dont forget the doctors, if it were up to the doctors, they may say lets keep it shut down. Lets shut down the entire world. Because, again, youre up to almost 150 countries, so lets shut down the entire world. And when we shut it down, that would be wonderful and lets keep it shut for a couple of years. You know you cant do that and you cant do that with a country, especially the number one economy anywhere in the world by far. Number one economy in the world, you cant do that. Well, it causes bigger problems than the original. Thats why I talk about the cure being worse than the problem. We cant have the cure be worse than the problem. But what we have done So this is not retracing, this isnt anything. Weve done it really well because this two-week period has been good and Im not saying it ends at that time. We have another seven days or so. Im not saying it ends at that time, but I am saying its been this incredible learning process. Thats going to go into the future. Thats going to go even as we open up our country. And were going to be watching New York and were going to be watching California, were going to be watching the state of Washington and other places. Illinois is becoming a hotspot, and we can do both.  Now, we may quarantine I mean we will be quarantining many people in these areas. There are other areas that just arent affected or theyre affected very little. And why would we close down 100% of the country? There are areas within New York where New York will be open, but there are areas within New York. Remember this, New York has the New York Stock Exchange. It has NASDAQ, it has the exchanges. To close the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ with all of the great work theyre doing. I mean, theyve gone largely to computer. You look at the floor, its incredible what they can do, but its fully open. But we dont want to be doing that.  What Im saying basically is that we can do two things simultaneously, and weve had this incredible learning period. Plus, people have been in a period and they wont be calling, Oh gee. Because Ive got many, many people that now come to me and say, We get it. We think we can really do it now and do it while were open. So at some point, well be setting some guidelines, well be setting some datelines and well be announcing them in the not too distant future. Well, not endorsed. We talked together, and I think theyre okay with it and Im okay with it, but this could be a much bigger problem. This could create a much bigger problem than the problem that you start off with. Now other nations are going to have to do what theyre going to do, but theyll probably do something very similar.  But in our case, much more so than anyone else, because of the magnitude of our economy, the tremendous size of what weve built and what we have and the jobs involved. You have almost 160 million jobs in this country now, the most ever by far, by far the most ever. The number of jobs, almost 160 million, so we cant turn that off and think its going to be wonderful. Theyll be tremendous repercussions. There will be a tremendous death from that, death. Youre talking about death.  Death from the death, youre talking about death. Probably more death from that than anything that were talking about with respect to the virus. No, I think were going to do them both. I think thats what Im saying. I think we can do them both now. Now, we havent announced a date, but were getting fairly close to coming up with a date and its a much shorter period of time than Ive been hearing the news report. And I think everybody should be happy with that, but great knowledge was gained. Please. You mean with the Democrats youre talking about? Well, it is true. If he said I didnt hear him say that, but if he said, Difficult trade-offs, sure. Its less convenient. Before you walk and youd hop in the subway and you had grab the handle and you go down to wherever youre going on Wall Street and you do all sorts of things and you go in and you open the doors going into your great buildings or into the exchanges and now youre not going to have to Maybe you think about doing that or youre going to think about doing it a different way.  No, no. There are many trade-offs. Its a different life and maybe it will remain that way frankly after the invisible scourge is gone. Maybe its going to say that way. Not a bad thing to stay that way, but no, there are trade-offs. Theres no question about that, but I actually think its going to I think in the end were going to end up being bigger, better and stronger. We have learned a lot. Please. Thats true. Latin America. No, were not really. Something like that could happen, I guess, but were not really. They thought we were going to have bans within the United States. We didnt do that. Were not going to have that. Hopefully thatll take care of itself. No ones, in Latin America, there is a, theres been an uptick. Yeah, please. Yeah, because it seems that there could be a little bit of nasty language toward the Asian Americans in our country and I dont like that at all. These are incredible people. They love our country and Im not going to let it happen. I just wanted to make that point. Because theyre blaming China- People are blaming China. And they are making statements to great American citizens that happened to be of Asian heritage and Im not going to let that happen. Please. Yeah, the governors of the various states will have a lot of leeway. If we open up, and when we open up, the governors in certain states. For instance, you go to some of the states I just mentioned, those schools are going to be open. Many cases, theyre open now, but the schools are going to be open. In other cases, Governor Cuomo, Gavin Newsom, of California, certain governors are going to maybe have a decision to make. Now, they may make a decision to keep them open in a certain part of New York and maybe in Westchester County or wherever it may be, theyll keep them closed.  But theyre going to have leeway. We giving the governors a lot of leeway. The governors are going to make those decisions. Thats going to be up to the governors and theyre very capable. Theyll be able to make the decisions. Please. Because the virus has had a big impact on our country, so were going to give a stimulus so that the workers can live their life. It was not their fault, it wasnt the workers fault. And we are going to give a kick, so that its a kick. And this way we think the workers can get a fair start. The small businesses, were taking very good care of, we want to take care of these small businesses. They really are the engine of this country. A lot of people dont know that. Everyone thinks of these great, big, beautiful businesses, who by the way have been very badly hurt also.  But the small businesses have really, historically been the engine and they still are the engine of the country. And youd be amazed. The workers love those businesses and the workers contact us and they want us to help those businesses because thats where theyve made their living.  Thats where theyve been paid a lot of money over the years. And youve been seeing whats happened over the last three years, where salaries and wages have gone up very substantially for those workers. And then, we got caught by this sudden craziness coming into our country and coming all over the world. We need to make sure that the companies are strong and that the workers are strong and thats what were doing. And hopefully, the Republicans and Democrats are going to be able to make a deal and theyre actually fairly close. But well see what happens. Please. Well, one of the things youre going to have to save companies that have been shattered. Youre going to have to save a various, I mean, you know a lot of the companies yourselves, we have a company that was I think the greatest company in the world named Boeing. Boeing is going to need some help. Now, Boeing had some difficulty before. Thats unlike others. We have other companies that didnt have a problem coming in. Boeing had the obvious problem that everybody knows about from a little more than a year ago, a double problem, and it was a big one.  And then on top of it, as theyre getting ready to really show their stuff on top of it, we all get hit by this and obviously the airlines are going to have a problem, but the airlines arent going to be buying from Boeing or from anybody else right now because of this difficulty. We have to work with the airlines, we have to work with the cruise lines. We have to work with the companies like a Boeing because Boeings a potentially, again, a great company. Had a very rough period of 13 months, a very rough period, a horrible period. An unbelievable period.  If you wouldve told me this would have happened to Boeing, I wouldnt have believed it. Because to me it was truly one of the great, one of the truly great, probably almost one point of GDP if you can think of thats hard to believe, that a company could have that kind of an impact. But Boeing, we have to work with it for two reasons.  Number one, its a great company that we have to save. Number two, it produces unbelievable numbers of jobs. And so, the numbers have to be reflective of that kind of a thing. Please. You know what Im going to do? We have wonderful people behind us that are working very hard and we want Bill to get back to the Department of Justice, so we want the admiral to start going and doing your job. And the same thing with Deb. If anybody would have any questions, maybe Ill ask Mike to stay around, but if anybody would have any questions for the group and otherwise Ill let them get back to work. Please. Go ahead, please. We have some, it should be fairly quick. I have a question for you. We have a lot of very angry media all around this room and they want one of these seats, but because of social distancing, we are keeping them empty and they are keeping them empty. Will there ever be a time when all of those really angry, angry people who dont like me much to start off with, but now they really dont like me, will there ever be a time when these seats are full, like full to the brim like it used to be where people are almost sitting on each others lap?  And this whole row over here is packed and now theyre outside wanting to get in and theyre very jealous of all of these reporters. Will we ever have that again? Or is that something that will be, you know, itll look like this forever? Right? But when the virus is gone, will the people be allowed to sit next to each other again, in your opinion in a tight room with a tight? Yup, youre doing it. And I think the big factor is the mortality rate, were talking about about the mortality rate. When we first started, people were thinking about three and 4% and now were talking about a much lower number than that. I think its a- I think its a number that will be a lot different than people thought. . Its much lower than we originally thought. I mean, frankly- Its a lot lower. Doctor, its just very interesting. The whole thing. Its an incredible subject. When somebody is very sick, they go to a doctor, go to a hospital, theyre recorded, theyre very sick, and then they live or they dont live, see what happens. But when somebody isnt very sick at all, Ive heard people that they dont even know they had it and theyre healing. Then Ive heard people that have like a cold or they have a running nose or even people that stay home and they think they have the flu, or in some cases they think they have a really bad case of the flu.  But all of those people, that vast majority of, I mean beyond vast majority of people, theyre not reporting. Theyre not calling the doctor, theyre not calling them. Theyre just getting better. You would think it would have to be because the people that are sick are going to a doctor or theyre going someplace, and theyre going to say, Make me better. The people that are just short of that and people that arent even, I mean, we have many people where they literally dont even know that they have it. Now, youre building up the number of cases that we talked about before and yet, so you dont know any what, you dont know how many they are. . It could be a vast number. But what you do know is all the people that are really sick.  Because all of the people that are really sick are going to a doctor in some form. And the doctor is reporting it in all cases itself. Im talking about many forms. Were talking about Look, number one, its the country itself. Youre talking tremendous disruption economically, but youre talking about massive depression, massive numbers of suicide- No, Im talking about, no, Im not talking about economic. Although, you could be talking about that, too. What Im talking about is people suffering massive depression because they had a fantastic job and now they have no idea whats going on. Now, heres the good news. If they get the bill passed, were taking care of those people. Were going to really take good care of those people beyond what any country has done for people. But theres never been anything like this.  No. Im talking about where people suffer massive depression,, where people commit suicide, where tremendous death happens. Now in addition to that, were talking about economic where you really hurt a country. It could take years and years to recover. And the longer you stay out, the harder it is to recover. I happen to think that youre going to have, they call it the V, I think youre going to have a very big bounce, you know, a very big bounce back. I think its going to be very big. Well see. Well, I think the bill should pass. Its should pass quickly. Take care of our workers, take care of the companies that pay those workers, help those companies over this rough patch. But the longer it takes, the harder it is to come back. Id like to be able to bounce back to where we were. And ultimately I think were going to be even further than that. But Im just saying that the Whats happening when I say the cure and the cure could be worse than the problem itself. Right? Thats what I, we cant let that happen. We cant let that happen.  Weve learned so much and so many good things are going to happen for our country. We cant let this continue to go on. What were doing is were meeting with the doctors, Dr.Fauci, Dr. Birx and others and were, weve already started the discussion. And I can say that Im a student like youre students. Were all learning this together. I learned a lot from Deborah. I learned a lot from Tony.  I learned a lot from a lot of people that this is, this has been their lifes work. Ive learned a lot. Were going to come up with a date and were going to do two things. We can do two things at one time. At the same time, were going to be very vigilant. Were going to be so vigilant in terms of all of the things that we have to do that weve been talking about for the last two weeks ad nauseum. And I think its going to be ultimately a far better solution for our country. Yeah, please go ahead.  want her to go back and you want her to go back to work. Immediately. Thank you. Great job. Thank you, Deborah. Yeah, Deborah? They wont let you go. Thank you. Go ahead, one second, please. Well, it is. Its something were talking to a lot of people about. Well see what happens, but were talking to people about it. Go ahead, please. Let me just, I was just with him for a long time. And- Oh, hes at the task force meeting right now. We have a task force meeting. He was there. Well, he doesnt not agree. I mean, we had a long talk and he understands this tremendous, theres a tremendous cost to our country, both in terms of lives and in terms of economics and in terms of many, many years of rebuilding something that was a fine tuned machine. It was nobodys fault. It just happened. This horrible virus came from wherever and it just happened. It just happened. He fully understands that now. Hes a good man. I like Dr. Fauci a lot, just so you understand.  No, hes not here because we really werent discussing what hes best at, but hell be back up very soon. Yeah, please. And well be discussing dates and times with him. And we are talking about a I dont want to use the word abbreviated because so much has been gained by what weve done. But were talking about not during the period, you know, during the 14 or 15 days, but not too long after that- Which, I think is going to make a lot of people happy. Its going to make a lot of companies happy. Its going to make a lot of workers happy. Yeah, John? I would certainly, hes very important to me and I would, I will be listening to him. Ill be listening to Deborah, who you just spoke to. Ill be listening to other experts. We have a lot of people that are very good at this, and ultimately, its a balancing act, but-  Ultimately, its a balancing act, but the expression, we can do two things at one time and weve got an incredible country. We have to keep it that way and that includes not just economics, that also includes life and death. We have to keep it that way. Well, Ive gotten to like this room. This room is very convenient. I can say from the standpoint of being president of the United States I really This has been a very convenient room for all of us. You people are set up, so I never even thought of closing it. So youre asking me a question that I never thought in terms of closing it. Can you give me a good reason to close it? We could build a larger one. I dont want to make commitments like that because its not something Ive ever really thought about. There are certain people that would like to see a larger room built. We need a larger room. Other presidents didnt need such a large room, but we need a larger room and there are some people, but its not something that is really on my mind to be honest with you. Yes, please. Which period? I think were listening to many people. I mean that was my world. I know many of those people. I have many people that are friends of mine, some enemies also by the way. But its been a good world for me. I like that world. I like those people. Theyre tough and theyre smart. But I listened to many of them. Ultimately, they all go into that computer and I say, this is what were going to do. I have to make a decision. This is a very important man right here to my right, our great vice president, because hes got a great instinct about things too. So Im going to be listening to my case, headed up the task force I think brilliantly. I think its going to go down as that because hes really done a job. Not only has he been good, hes been soothing. Hes really been great for the American public to watch it.  I mean that in the most positive way. Theres a solidity with Mike that you dont find in many people. Hes been soothing. Hes been good for the American public. They have confidence in him. I think hes done an incredible job and his advice is very, very important to me. So hes going to be making I mean, he didnt come from that world, the world of finance, but he understands the world of finance. He was a great governor in Indiana. They did very well financially too. I can give you a whole list and well probably even set up committees. Id rather give you one because then Im going to leave out I have spoken to so many people and- What? I am happy with him. Yes. I think hes I really think hes a caught up and hes done the right thing and I think ultimately we will be rewarded because of the decision he made over the last Hes really stepped up over the last week and I have to tell you, I called him today and I said, Jerome, good job. You really did it . It might be, he was just a little bit slower than I would have liked in the sense of what he was doing. Now, other people might have liked it, but today I called up Jerome Powell and I said, Jerome, youve done a really good job. I was proud of him. That took courage and ultimately youre going to see the fruits. Now. Hes not finished. I mean, hes got other arrows in the quiver or whatever they say, I will tell you hes got plenty of arrows. But no, Im very happy with the job he did. No wait, I just want to say, were thinking about it. China has very much stepped up as you probably know, the agricultural purchases from our farmers and some other purchases too. So they have a difficult time also right now. But theyve very much stepped up their purchases and significantly. So were very happy about that. The other thing, Im standing here, this case with our vice president trying to let you ask anything you want having to do with the subject, which frankly is pretty much all anyone cares about right now. Because I think its very important. I dont want to stand here for two hours and do this, but I think its important that I call it get it out of your system. Give us any question about it because I think its important for the public to know. So we dont want to answer two questions and leave. We want to answer your questions.  Thats why were doing this for so long. I think it gives our country confidence and it gives I think were all gaining knowledge. This has been an unbelievable process, but were all getting So I want to stay here. Sometimes were here for two hours and were answering questions. At least you will say that Im very transparent. I think youre going to have a hard time saying he is not transparent. But we take a lot of questions from you. Unfortunately, some of them are repetitive and some of them are fantastic questions. Some of these questions are great. Some of the questions lead to us solving a problem. You bring up problems that people didnt know existed. But I just want to let you know so were doing this so that we can be transparent so that we can get everything out. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. Were very, very close to them. We had a couple of great talks plus Ive spoken to a number of them individually. Yeah, were very, very closely aligned. Please. Thats going to make a big difference because that really is a process thats easy as opposed to the current process, which is not, as Ive said, its not pleasant. Yeah. Then ultimately I have to make a decision, but I certainly listened to them. I listened to a number of people. I have a lot of respect for Dr. Fauci and for Dr. Birx and Ill be listening to them and others that we have that are really doing good. John. We have now a system and the systems in place and we have two very, very powerful alternatives that we have to take into consideration. And as I said, one of the things that has really gotten me thinking about this, number one, Im looking at whats going on and you know its life is fragile and economies are fragile, but one of the things is the mortality rate, John. When we first started this, nobody knew anything about this particular virus. Very, very little. I mean we started, if we were hearing numbers of 5% that would, thats an astronomical number when the flu is 0.001 and two and three, right? So 5% would be an astronomical number. Now were seeing numbers that may be less than one and thats not including the exercise that I just went through where many people dont report. So everybody getting very sick is reporting, but nobody getting not very sick.  That should be part of that equation. So that just keeps reducing the number. So the mortality rate, thats a big To me thats a very big factor. When we were hearing three and 4%, remember we had one day where we thought it was 5% and were getting a lot of bad numbers from countries that, I dont know why, but we were getting a lot of bad numbers. I do wish, again, our relationships very good with China, but I wished they could have told us about this a little bit sooner. You know that. But the mortality rate is a big thing for me because I think were very substantially under 1% now. Its still terrible. Its still the whole thing. The whole concept of death is terrible, but theres a tremendous difference between something under 1% and four or five or even 3%. So thats something that were learning now. I think the number may be lower than people think because of what Ive been saying. Yeah, please. Well, I thought we had a deal last night and then the Democrats changed the deal. So we had a deal last night that was going to be phenomenal for the workers, which is my number one aim. I want to take care of the workers and we had a deal. I was pretty sure we had a deal last night if you would told me at a certain time about 9:00 I would have told you we pretty much have a deal. And then all of a sudden it changed. It changed fairly rapidly. It was unaccepted. It would have been bad for our country and they were asking for things that would have not been good. I mean things that that bore no relationship to what were talking about and we said thats not the game. We cant play that game. So well see. Look, the Democrats do want to make a deal. But Jeff, I thought we had a deal last night. Ill work with anybody to help the American people. I will. I dont care who it is. Ill work with anybody. If I feel Im going to help the American people and the American worker. Yeah, please. Well, you just saw the Admiral and you just saw the FEMA people and you just saw the army corps of engineers. Were building hospitals in New York and California and State of Washington and New Jersey. I just made a commitment to fill that were going to help him out with some of the areas in New Jersey, which is very important, a great state. So, were doing a great job and with it to help the governors, but the governors are on the front line and they can do some of it themselves. Governor Cuomo, hes been working very hard and he worked with me on the hospitals and medical centers because its not just hospitals, its called hospital and another is medical centers of which were building numerous for New York. We have it all laid out. We have Javits center and then we have other locations throughout the state.  I think its really a great plan and were going to have FEMA and the army corps of engineers involved. Ive worked with them were building a wall. Were up to over 150 miles of wall on our Southern border, which is now turning out to be even more important than we originally thought. But I always thought it was very important having borders. So, Im working with the army corps of engineers and I see what they do and how they do it. Thats used to be my business. I know it very well and theyre very professional. Theyre really good.  So youre going to see a lot of good things happening in many States beyond the States. I just mentioned in many States, were working with governor Ron DeSantis in Florida. Were working with governor McMaster, right? In South Carolina where they have a little bit of a breakout, not by comparison but a little bit. Were working with many, many governors and many, many states. Actually States where you almost would think that they have it under pretty good control and theyve done a great job, but were working with many states and thats primarily FEMA and the army corps of engineer. Theyre capable of doing it. Well, a lot of the provisions that they wanted, like stock buy backs. I agree with it. Thats good with me. I mean, I dont like them buying back stock. I like them spending money on airplanes and on their employees and they real business, not buying back stock. I dont know if that provision is going to be put in one way or the other. But Im all for it and many Republicans, I can tell you are for it and I think many Democrats are for it. But they were putting that out like it was a problem last night. Not a problem for me, I can tell you that, please. Well, I think when youre talking about right now is at least $3,000 per family of four in that correct. $3,000 for a family of four, which is bold. If this continued, we have to build this up and if this continued well do something else and well do more at a later date. But thats a big number. If you remember, they were talking about $500 and $600 and we are all for the three. As of this moment, its $3,000 for a family of four. Please go ahead. Well, we have a very strong dollar and a strong dollar is good in many ways, but its also tough in many ways because it makes trade much harder. It makes it much harder for a Caterpillar tractor and other companies to sell their goods to Europe or China or wherever they may be sold. So having a strong dollar is good, but it really sounds good. But the truth is it makes certain things like trade much tougher. Our dollar, I dont know if youve seen, but our dollars have been very strong, especially against other currencies, very, very strong. Which again, makes that trading more difficult. But theres something nice about having a strong dollar, right? No matter what, Im president, I used to have a strong dollar, but it does make trading more different. Well, I think the Democrats want a deal and I think we want to deal. So it would be very foolish if they didnt make a deal. The American public is demanding it. I can tell you the Republicans want to make a deal and we want to make a deal thats good for the workers, good for the country. I really believe the Democrats want to make a deal, but they have to stop asking for things that bear no relationship to what were talking about. That are actually bad. That are actually not good for the country. Well, lets see what happens. I have to see what happens. Right now we dont have a deal, but I think were very close. I mean, when I left, which was quite a while ago now, because again, were trying to answer every question so theres no Be nice if you were just exhausted and said, Thats it. We cant do any more. But theres always hands up. Maybe one of those questions is great and unique, but now look I want whats good for the country and if that means meeting, I think thats great. I just want whats good for the country, great for our workers, great for the citizens of the United States. Thats all it - Its been a little. Yeah, please. Yes. Shes great. Shes fine. Negative. Well, we need that to help all of these companies that have a chance of not being companies anymore, and thats going to be a good thing for the country because deals will be made and were talking to certain people. Some of the greatest people in the history of Wall Street, frankly. Where when they do a deal, well have stock for America. Well take back stock for the United States. At the same time, most importantly, well keep those companies healthy, but we can also make incredible deals for the country so that that number will increase exponentially. I mean, this is Oh look, Ill be the oversight. Ill be the oversight. Were going to make good deals. We make good deals, but these companies need it. Even if it was just a simple loan, which would be. But we can do better than that and the companies are willing to do better than that. I mean, they got hit. Most of these companies, it was through no fault of their own. There are a couple where they were troubled before they came in. We talked about one, it had troubled, nobody can believe it actually in that one.  But these companies are through no fault of their own. They have difficulty. I mean, two weeks ago, these companies were among the most solid institutions in the world. Youd want to buy their bonds, their bonds were rated AAA or whatever their highest rating is today. Now all of a sudden they have difficulty because theyve been closed up. So you need something to keep them going, but that money is not going to be wasted money. That moneys going to be seen. We could multiply that number by many times coming back to the American public, that could be a phenomenal thing. But most importantly, its going to keep these great engines of jobs and ingenuity going. Very important. How about one or two more and well go. Go ahead please . I dont think so. Im looking forward. I dont look back. I guess theres always something everybody regrets. There things in your life you regret. We all regret things, but I really like to look forward. Im a person that looks Forward thinker. I guess they would say. No, I think that weve handled it really well. It seems to be the American public thinks that weve handled it well. If you look at polling data, but Im not interested in myself. Im interested in the American people. We have to get this going. We have millions and millions of jobs that were solid as a rock three weeks ago and today there could be questions.  The faster we get it going, the more likely it is that those stores, little businesses, big businesses, medium sized businesses open up and well get it going very fast. I really believe this is a pent up demand. I think that as soon as we say, Lets go. Its going to be pretty soon. Its going to be pretty soon. Its going to be sooner than people would think. Again, were in a position to take care of our country, but at the same time to have the country really, really go up like a rocket ship economically. Thats great for jobs. Its great for everything else. Yeah, please. For who? Well thats really up to the governor. I mean I think first of all, hes a great governor. Hes done an incredible job. Governor DeSantis of Florida and on the beaches, I guess hes recently made a decision, but you do have a lot of room on the beaches. I think its just a decision that he made originally and then hes refined it and then hes done something that a lot of people agree with what hes done, but hes done a lot of things right. Hes been truly I mean, he cares so much about health care, he cares so much about the cost of prescription drugs. Hes been a fantastic governor for Florida. Theyre very happy with them.  The whole concept of the beach, its a very interesting issue. There are a lot of open spaces that includes parks and other things, but rather than relying on social distancing, theyre probably going to do that one in a different way. But I would imagine when we make our decision, things like that would be opened up and then people will remember what theyre supposed to be doing. Well, I want to thank everybody very much and well see you tomorrow sometime and well get this going, I think really well. Thank you all very much. Appreciate it ."
"Well, thank you very much, and I see we have fewer people because of the virus problem, and we appreciate you being here. This is getting to be more and more social distancing and thats fine, thats the way it should be, and its too bad. We extend our best wishes to the person affected and we feel sure that he or she will be better very soon.  Thank you for being here. America continues to mobilize every segment of our society to turn the tide in the battle against the virus. I want Americans to know that we will get through this challenge, the hardship will end, it will end soon, normal life will return and our economy will rebound very, very strongly, but right now in the midst of this great national trial, Americans must remain united in purpose and focused on victory. To every single American, please know that the sacrifice youre making at this time is saving lives many, many lives.  Its very important that we totally protect our Asian American community in the United States and all around the world. Theyre amazing people and the spreading of the virus is not their fault in any way, shape or form. Theyre working closely with us to get rid of it. We will prevail together. Its very important. From the beginning, we have been working closely with our nations best scientists and medical professionals and we will continue to do so until we have defeated the virus. Our public health experts, who are terrific, are studying the variation in the disease across the country and we will be using data to recommend new protocols to allow local economies to cautiously resume their activity at the appropriate time. We also have a large team working on what the next steps will be once the medical community gives a region the okay, meaning the okay to get going, to get back Lets go to work.  Our country wasnt built to be shut down. This is not a country that was built for this. It was not built to be shut down. My administration continues to work with Democrats and Republicans to reach an agreement on an urgent relief bill for the millions of American workers, and small businesses and large businesses that were badly affected by the medical difficulty that weve had. If you had a viable business in January, we are committed to ensuring the same is true in the coming weeks. In fact, we want to make it even better than it was before and were doing things to help in that regard. America will again, and soon be open for business. Very soon. A lot sooner than three or four months that somebody was suggesting. A lot sooner.  We can not let the cure be worse than the problem itself. Were not going to let the cure be worse than the problem. At the end of the 15 day period well make a decision as to which way we want to go, where we want to go, the timing, and essentially were referring to the timing of the opening, essentially the opening of our country, because we have it pretty well shut down in order to get rid of this invisible enemy.  Two weeks ago we moved at record speed to pass paid sick leave and paid family medical leave, and approved $8 billion including money for the development of treatments and vaccines, and were doing tremendous work in both, on both fronts. The vaccines are coming along very quickly. Now, Congress must demonstrate the same bipartisanship again and join together to pass the Senate bill as written and avoid playing anymore partisan games. They have to get together and just stop with the partisan politics, and I think thats happening. I got a call a little while ago, I guess theyre getting closer. It should go quickly, and it must go quickly. Its not really choice. They dont have a choice, they have to make a deal. This should not be a time for political agendas, but rather one for focusing solely and squarely on the needs of the American people. We are going to save American workers and were going to save them quickly, and were going to save our great American companies, both small and large. This was a medical problem, we are not going to let it turn into a long lasting financial problem.  It started out as a purely medical problem and its not going to go beyond that. Were just not going to allow that to happen. Our country was at its strongest financial point, weve never had an economy like we had just a few weeks ago, and then it got a hit with something that nobody could have ever thought possible, and we are fixing it. Were fixing it quickly, and I want to just thank the American people for what theyve been through and what theyre doing. Our country will be stronger than ever before and we fully anticipate that, and it wont be that long.  Let me provide you with an update on critical supplies. FEMA is distributing 8,000,095 respirator masks and 13.3 million surgical masks across the country right now, focusing on the areas with the greatest need. We have shipped 73 pallets of personal protective equipment to New York City and 36 pallets to the state of Washington. In the past 96 hours, FEMA has also received donations of approximately 6.5 million masks. Were having millions and millions of masks made as we speak, and other personal protective equipment which we will be distributing to medical hotspots. Were focused on some of the hotspots across the nation. Were seeing an outpouring of creativity and innovative ideas widely shared between the federal health leaders, governors and mayors, the scientific community and members of the private sector really working together. Everybodys working together.  Im pleased to report that clinical trials in New York will begin existing for existing drugs that may prove effective against the virus. At my direction, the federal government is working to help obtain large quantities of flororoquin, and you can look from any standpoint tomorrow in New York, we think tomorrow pretty early. The hydroxychloroquine and the Z-Pak, I think as a combination probably is looking very, very good and its going to be distributed. We have 10,000 units going, and itll be distributed tomorrow. Itll be available, and it is now. They already have it. Theyre going to distribute it tomorrow morning to a lot of people in New York City and New York. Were studying it very closely, watching it very closely. You probably saw a couple of articles today came out where a gentleman, they thought he was not going to make it, he said goodbye to his family, they had given him the drug just a little while before, but he thought it was over. His family thought he was going to die, and a number of hours later he woke up, felt good. Then he woke up again and he felt really good, and hes in good shape, and hes very happy for this particular drug that we got approved in record setting time.  Theres never been anything even close to it, and I want to thank the FDA, which has been incredible, and Dr. Hahn, Stephen Hahn, a highly respected man, but theyre doing everything possible to increase production and available supply of these drugs, not only this drug but also others that are coming. Remdesivir is coming from Regeneron, a couple of others are also under study, but the one that Im very excited about right now is the one we just mentioned, and I think theres a real chance, I mean, again, we dont know, but theres a real chance that it could have a tremendous impact. It would be a gift from God if that worked. It would be a big game changer, so well see, but distribution starts tomorrow morning early in New York and I think a lot of people are going to be, hopefully theyre going to be very happy with the result, but were all going to be watching closely. Its something we have to try. Its been very, very successful on Malaria, very, very successful, and countries with Malaria have had an interesting thing happen. They take this particular drug, its a very powerful drug, and there is very little semblance of the virus in those countries, and there are those that say because this drug is very prevalent because of the Malaria, so well see what happens.  Im also announcing that were postponing the deadline for compliance with real ID requirements at a time when were asking Americans to maintain social distancing. We do want to require people to go with their local DMV. We will be announcing the new deadline very soon. Its going to be announced in a very short moment.  Over night, we successfully brought home 103 American citizens after they had been stranded for 10 days in Brazil following a cruise. We want to thank the Brazilian government and their great president. Most of those returned were senior citizens. My administration, in cooperation with Governor Greg Abbott of Texas and the private sector coordinated their safe return to the United States, so thank you to Governor Abbott, a terrific governor, terrific man.  Earlier today I signed an executive order invoking presidential authority under Section 45-12 of the Defense Production act to prohibit the hoarding of vital medical equipment and supplies such as hand sanitizers, face masks and personal protective equipment. We have a lot of face masks, a lot of equipment just coming in, and we have some people hoarding, and Attorney General Barrs going to be speaking about that in a second. We want to prevent price gouging and critical health and medical resources are going to be protected in every form. Under this directive the Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized to designate essential health and medical supplies as scarce, so hell designate certain supplies and medical elements as scarce, and that means it will be a crime to stockpile these items in excessive quantities, which is happening to a relatively small degree we think, but nevertheless, its happening. We cant let it happen, and we cant let them resell them at excessive prices, which some people are doing. Very simply, will not allow anyone to exploit the suffering of American citizens for their own profit, so were going to be watching that with our great Attorney General very closely.  The Department of Justice will be aggressively prosecuting fraudulent schemes related to the pandemic. Yesterday, federal prosecutors took action in their first case, shutting down a website selling a totally fake vaccine, if you can believe that one. As president, I will always fight to protect Americans from being exploited. Thankfully, all throughout the country were witnessing extraordinary acts of compassion, benevolence and unity. Construction companies are donating masks by the hundreds of thousands, manufacturing workers are transforming their assembly lines, citizens are volunteering to deliver food and medicine to the elderly, were truly seeing America at its best. Were really seeing things that people never thought even could happen. Frankly, we never thought this could happen, but the way most Americans are working toward getting it solved and just doing what they have to do to make this go away has been incredible. Its been incredible.  I want to take a moment to thank the everyday heroes who are making our vast effort against the virus possible, and thank you to the healthcare workers and the first responders. These are very brave people. Thanks also to the hardworking men and women of Federal Express, UPS, the United States Postal Service, and the truckers who are maintaining our supply chains and supply lines. We thank you very much. Great job. We also want to give our regards and thanks to everyone at our grocery stores working the night shift so that shelves can be restocked, and the restaurant workers and delivery drivers keeping our families fed. So many of these restaurants, its incredible. Theyre doing a service where people come and they pick it up, delivery. Its been incredible what theyve been doing. A totally different business than they were in, other than they cook food. Other than that, its like a totally different business.  Most of all, I want to thank the American people for rising to the challenge and showing incredible courage, determination, patience, grace and grit. From New York to Seattle and everywhere in between, your acts of selflessness, and sacrifice and ingenuity are a powerful testament to the American character. Its really being shown. Its really showing up at a level that people are really respecting. All over the world, theyre respecting, and the world has problems. Were 148 countries now. 148 countries are affected by the invisible scourge, and all of the uplifting reflections of the American spirit are out there for everyone to see. Together, we will care for our fellow citizens and we will win this war, and well win it much sooner than people think and well be back in business as a country pretty soon. Youll be hearing about that also pretty soon.  Now, Id like to ask Attorney General Bill Barr to say a few words, and well take questions in a little while. Thank you. Thank you very much, .  Deborah? Deborah, please. Thank you very much, Deborah. . Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Of course I do. Its going to be bad and we have a lot of people dying from the flu. As you know, we have a very bad flu season on top of everything else. Its very bad. It looks like it could be over 50,000, and certainly this is going to be bad. Were trying to make it so that its much, much less bad and thats what were doing. I think were doing a very good job of it.  If you look at other countries, what theyve been through, and you look at the kind of numbers and compare them to ours, which is a much larger country than most, the numbers are pretty amazing. And it started with the fact that we stopped people from coming in from a highly infected area and that was a good thing to do. So yeah, its bad and obviously the numbers are going to increase with time, and then theyre going to start to decrease.  And were going to be opening our country up for business because our country was meant to be open and working with others but especially for our workers. And the engine for that whole system is we have to have companies and these companies are loved by our workers because theyre paying big salaries and big dollars to our workers. And were going to get it all going again very soon, hopefully very, very soon.  Please. Well, youll see what happens. I understand the question very well. Its a great question, but we can do two things at one time. I will say this, our countrys learned a lot. Weve learned about social distancing. Weve learned about the hands, weve learned about staying away at least during the time that this is even a little bit around this disease or whatever you want to call it. Many different names, you can go up many different names, but the virus while its around.  And we can start thinking about, as an example, parts of our country are very lightly effected, very small numbers. You look at a state, great governor, Pete Ricketts in Nebraska. You look at the kind of numbers they have out there. They have one of the great hospitals there too, relative to what were talking about. But you look at Nebraska, you look at Idaho, you look at Iowa. I could name many countries that are handling it very, very well and that are not affected to the same extent or frankly not even nearly to the extent of New York. Im dealing with the Governor Cuomo and were dealing very well together. Well be sending that ship up, by the way, as you know. We have a ship going to Los Angeles. The ship is coming out of a very large repair, so ready to go or very soon will be. And over the next three or four weeks thatll be coming up to New York. Well go to New York Harbor and itll be fully supplied, so theyre working on that right now. Well, I didnt say a week, but I said soon. Its going to be a soon. Its not going to be three or four months as some people were saying and a lot of people thought originally, but I would certainly let you answer. I think thats a great definition, and I will say were going to be watching our senior citizens very closely. Were going to be watching certain hotspots like New York, and within New York you have areas which are troubling and well be working with the governor and the mayor and everybody else on those spots.  But at the same time, at a certain point, we have to get open and we have to get moving. We dont want to lose these companies. We dont want to lose these workers. We want to take care of our workers, so well be doing something I think relatively quickly, but weve learned a lot during this period. This was a very necessary period. Tremendous information was gained, but we can do two things at one time.  And again, I say, we have a very active flu season, more active than most. Its looking like its heading to 50,000 or more deaths, deaths not cases. 50,000 deaths, thats a lot. And you look at automobile accidents, which are far greater than any numbers were talking about. That doesnt mean were going to tell everybody no more driving of cars. We have to do things to get our country open. But this has been an incredible period of learning and well have announcements over the next fairly short period as to the timing. John, please. Yeah. Ill let you answer him. Uh-oh. Whew. Thank you for saying that. Thank you very much. Well, they will be in place. At some point, were going to open up our country and its going to be fairly soon. Im not looking at months, I can tell you right now. Were going to be opening up our country and were going to be watching certain areas and were going to be practicing everything that Deborah is referring to right here. I mean, were going to be watching this very closely, but you cant keep it closed for years, okay.  This is going away. Were going to win the battle, but you have tremendous responsibility. We have jobs. We have people get tremendous anxiety and depression and you have suicides over things like this. When you have terrible economies, you have death probably, and I mean definitely would be in far greater numbers than the numbers that were talking about with regard to the virus. We have an obligation. We have a double obligation.  We have a great country. There is no country like it in the world and theres no economy like it in the world. I mean, we were just blazing. We were coming out with numbers that some numbers werent even reported because this had happened. They were meaningless. I got numbers about myself that were meaningless. Because by the time the numbers came in, its a whole different world with this.  But I will tell you that we can do both things, John. We can do them both at the same time. I mean, thats okay. What we have gone through is a tremendous learning process and weve also solved a lot of problems. But weve gone through a tremendous learning situation. Now, were building hospitals in New York. Were building hospitals in California. Were building hospitals in the state of Washington. Weve been in touch with the governors. Today I spoke with a man that I happened to like. I spoke with Phil in New Jersey and where were going to be doing something very meaningful in New Jersey. Were doing something I spoke with, JB Pritzker called me today. Were going to be helping them out in Illinois. Were doing a lot of things in Florida.  Were doing a lot of things between FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Admiral in your group in terms of the purchasing, thats what he does. He purchases. He supposed to be great. Ill tell you in about two days, but hes going to do a fantastic job. We have an incredibly talented group of people. But yeah, well be doing two things and three things at one time.  Well, at the same time though, were going to be watching very closely the hotspots. Were going to be taking care and watching very closely our senior citizens, especially those with a problem or an illness. Were going to be watching them very, very closely; and we can do that and have an open economy, have an open country. And we have to do that because that causes other problems and maybe it causes much bigger problems than the problem were talking about now. You understand. Jeff, please. I think the cure has been very tough. This has been very tough. This was an operation. This was somebody going to a doctor and saying, You need an operation, and weve had an operation. Weve learned a lot and we fixed a lot of problems. One of the things we fixed is if you look at the absolute system that this administration inherited, it wasnt meant for this. It was meant for a small group of people; and even for that, it was not very good and very obsolete.  We have a testing program now that will hopefully be able to be used for many years into the future should we have another event like this. I dont think youll have another event like this. This is very unique. You look back into time, you look back decades and decades. We can name them all. Even if you go back 10 years, you know you go back to 09, but that wasnt like this as it turned out. But they lost a lot of people. We were early. We were early,, Jeff because of the fact that we closed early. That was a big move. Please, . Yeah, go ahead, Jim. Well, its not change. No, were doing things Yeah. This was a learning experience for the people of the country. If whats changed? Well, I think weve learned a lot. I think that theres so much discipline now that we never had. Nobody ever said dont shake hands. I did actually before I became a politician. Once I became a politician then its hard getting used to not doing it because you do it with everybody. With literally thousands of people a week, youre shaking hands with big groups of people.  Weve learned a lot. Theres a great discipline that this whole country has learned having to do with distancing, having to do with shaking hands. I think a lot of its going to stay long after the viruses go and I really think its probably good practice anyway, but I think its going to stay long after the virus has gone.  We have to open our country because that causes problems that, in my opinion, could be far bigger problems, far bigger. Look, this is a severe medical situation that could cause problems far beyond the medical, and then increase the medical problems to things that had nothing to do with this original medical problem. We cant let that happen to our country. We have the greatest country in the world. Im not going to let that happen, but this two weeks that we have spent, has been an incredible learning period and process. Please, Kristin. I spoke to them today and I was telling them that we have two things to look forward. Dont forget the doctors, if it were up to the doctors, they may say lets keep it shut down. Lets shut down the entire world. Because, again, youre up to almost 150 countries, so lets shut down the entire world. And when we shut it down, that would be wonderful and lets keep it shut for a couple of years. You know you cant do that and you cant do that with a country, especially the number one economy anywhere in the world by far. Number one economy in the world, you cant do that. Well, it causes bigger problems than the original. Thats why I talk about the cure being worse than the problem. We cant have the cure be worse than the problem. But what we have done So this is not retracing, this isnt anything. Weve done it really well because this two-week period has been good and Im not saying it ends at that time. We have another seven days or so. Im not saying it ends at that time, but I am saying its been this incredible learning process. Thats going to go into the future. Thats going to go even as we open up our country. And were going to be watching New York and were going to be watching California, were going to be watching the state of Washington and other places. Illinois is becoming a hotspot, and we can do both.  Now, we may quarantine I mean we will be quarantining many people in these areas. There are other areas that just arent affected or theyre affected very little. And why would we close down 100% of the country? There are areas within New York where New York will be open, but there are areas within New York. Remember this, New York has the New York Stock Exchange. It has NASDAQ, it has the exchanges. To close the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ with all of the great work theyre doing. I mean, theyve gone largely to computer. You look at the floor, its incredible what they can do, but its fully open. But we dont want to be doing that.  What Im saying basically is that we can do two things simultaneously, and weve had this incredible learning period. Plus, people have been in a period and they wont be calling, Oh gee. Because Ive got many, many people that now come to me and say, We get it. We think we can really do it now and do it while were open. So at some point, well be setting some guidelines, well be setting some datelines and well be announcing them in the not too distant future. Well, not endorsed. We talked together, and I think theyre okay with it and Im okay with it, but this could be a much bigger problem. This could create a much bigger problem than the problem that you start off with. Now other nations are going to have to do what theyre going to do, but theyll probably do something very similar.  But in our case, much more so than anyone else, because of the magnitude of our economy, the tremendous size of what weve built and what we have and the jobs involved. You have almost 160 million jobs in this country now, the most ever by far, by far the most ever. The number of jobs, almost 160 million, so we cant turn that off and think its going to be wonderful. Theyll be tremendous repercussions. There will be a tremendous death from that, death. Youre talking about death.  Death from the death, youre talking about death. Probably more death from that than anything that were talking about with respect to the virus. No, I think were going to do them both. I think thats what Im saying. I think we can do them both now. Now, we havent announced a date, but were getting fairly close to coming up with a date and its a much shorter period of time than Ive been hearing the news report. And I think everybody should be happy with that, but great knowledge was gained. Please. You mean with the Democrats youre talking about? Well, it is true. If he said I didnt hear him say that, but if he said, Difficult trade-offs, sure. Its less convenient. Before you walk and youd hop in the subway and you had grab the handle and you go down to wherever youre going on Wall Street and you do all sorts of things and you go in and you open the doors going into your great buildings or into the exchanges and now youre not going to have to Maybe you think about doing that or youre going to think about doing it a different way.  No, no. There are many trade-offs. Its a different life and maybe it will remain that way frankly after the invisible scourge is gone. Maybe its going to say that way. Not a bad thing to stay that way, but no, there are trade-offs. Theres no question about that, but I actually think its going to I think in the end were going to end up being bigger, better and stronger. We have learned a lot. Please. Thats true. Latin America. No, were not really. Something like that could happen, I guess, but were not really. They thought we were going to have bans within the United States. We didnt do that. Were not going to have that. Hopefully thatll take care of itself. No ones, in Latin America, there is a, theres been an uptick. Yeah, please. Yeah, because it seems that there could be a little bit of nasty language toward the Asian Americans in our country and I dont like that at all. These are incredible people. They love our country and Im not going to let it happen. I just wanted to make that point. Because theyre blaming China- People are blaming China. And they are making statements to great American citizens that happened to be of Asian heritage and Im not going to let that happen. Please. Yeah, the governors of the various states will have a lot of leeway. If we open up, and when we open up, the governors in certain states. For instance, you go to some of the states I just mentioned, those schools are going to be open. Many cases, theyre open now, but the schools are going to be open. In other cases, Governor Cuomo, Gavin Newsom, of California, certain governors are going to maybe have a decision to make. Now, they may make a decision to keep them open in a certain part of New York and maybe in Westchester County or wherever it may be, theyll keep them closed.  But theyre going to have leeway. We giving the governors a lot of leeway. The governors are going to make those decisions. Thats going to be up to the governors and theyre very capable. Theyll be able to make the decisions. Please. Because the virus has had a big impact on our country, so were going to give a stimulus so that the workers can live their life. It was not their fault, it wasnt the workers fault. And we are going to give a kick, so that its a kick. And this way we think the workers can get a fair start. The small businesses, were taking very good care of, we want to take care of these small businesses. They really are the engine of this country. A lot of people dont know that. Everyone thinks of these great, big, beautiful businesses, who by the way have been very badly hurt also.  But the small businesses have really, historically been the engine and they still are the engine of the country. And youd be amazed. The workers love those businesses and the workers contact us and they want us to help those businesses because thats where theyve made their living.  Thats where theyve been paid a lot of money over the years. And youve been seeing whats happened over the last three years, where salaries and wages have gone up very substantially for those workers. And then, we got caught by this sudden craziness coming into our country and coming all over the world. We need to make sure that the companies are strong and that the workers are strong and thats what were doing. And hopefully, the Republicans and Democrats are going to be able to make a deal and theyre actually fairly close. But well see what happens. Please. Well, one of the things youre going to have to save companies that have been shattered. Youre going to have to save a various, I mean, you know a lot of the companies yourselves, we have a company that was I think the greatest company in the world named Boeing. Boeing is going to need some help. Now, Boeing had some difficulty before. Thats unlike others. We have other companies that didnt have a problem coming in. Boeing had the obvious problem that everybody knows about from a little more than a year ago, a double problem, and it was a big one.  And then on top of it, as theyre getting ready to really show their stuff on top of it, we all get hit by this and obviously the airlines are going to have a problem, but the airlines arent going to be buying from Boeing or from anybody else right now because of this difficulty. We have to work with the airlines, we have to work with the cruise lines. We have to work with the companies like a Boeing because Boeings a potentially, again, a great company. Had a very rough period of 13 months, a very rough period, a horrible period. An unbelievable period.  If you wouldve told me this would have happened to Boeing, I wouldnt have believed it. Because to me it was truly one of the great, one of the truly great, probably almost one point of GDP if you can think of thats hard to believe, that a company could have that kind of an impact. But Boeing, we have to work with it for two reasons.  Number one, its a great company that we have to save. Number two, it produces unbelievable numbers of jobs. And so, the numbers have to be reflective of that kind of a thing. Please. You know what Im going to do? We have wonderful people behind us that are working very hard and we want Bill to get back to the Department of Justice, so we want the admiral to start going and doing your job. And the same thing with Deb. If anybody would have any questions, maybe Ill ask Mike to stay around, but if anybody would have any questions for the group and otherwise Ill let them get back to work. Please. Go ahead, please. We have some, it should be fairly quick. I have a question for you. We have a lot of very angry media all around this room and they want one of these seats, but because of social distancing, we are keeping them empty and they are keeping them empty. Will there ever be a time when all of those really angry, angry people who dont like me much to start off with, but now they really dont like me, will there ever be a time when these seats are full, like full to the brim like it used to be where people are almost sitting on each others lap?  And this whole row over here is packed and now theyre outside wanting to get in and theyre very jealous of all of these reporters. Will we ever have that again? Or is that something that will be, you know, itll look like this forever? Right? But when the virus is gone, will the people be allowed to sit next to each other again, in your opinion in a tight room with a tight? Yup, youre doing it. And I think the big factor is the mortality rate, were talking about about the mortality rate. When we first started, people were thinking about three and 4% and now were talking about a much lower number than that. I think its a- I think its a number that will be a lot different than people thought. . Its much lower than we originally thought. I mean, frankly- Its a lot lower. Doctor, its just very interesting. The whole thing. Its an incredible subject. When somebody is very sick, they go to a doctor, go to a hospital, theyre recorded, theyre very sick, and then they live or they dont live, see what happens. But when somebody isnt very sick at all, Ive heard people that they dont even know they had it and theyre healing. Then Ive heard people that have like a cold or they have a running nose or even people that stay home and they think they have the flu, or in some cases they think they have a really bad case of the flu.  But all of those people, that vast majority of, I mean beyond vast majority of people, theyre not reporting. Theyre not calling the doctor, theyre not calling them. Theyre just getting better. You would think it would have to be because the people that are sick are going to a doctor or theyre going someplace, and theyre going to say, Make me better. The people that are just short of that and people that arent even, I mean, we have many people where they literally dont even know that they have it. Now, youre building up the number of cases that we talked about before and yet, so you dont know any what, you dont know how many they are. . It could be a vast number. But what you do know is all the people that are really sick.  Because all of the people that are really sick are going to a doctor in some form. And the doctor is reporting it in all cases itself. Im talking about many forms. Were talking about Look, number one, its the country itself. Youre talking tremendous disruption economically, but youre talking about massive depression, massive numbers of suicide- No, Im talking about, no, Im not talking about economic. Although, you could be talking about that, too. What Im talking about is people suffering massive depression because they had a fantastic job and now they have no idea whats going on. Now, heres the good news. If they get the bill passed, were taking care of those people. Were going to really take good care of those people beyond what any country has done for people. But theres never been anything like this.  No. Im talking about where people suffer massive depression,, where people commit suicide, where tremendous death happens. Now in addition to that, were talking about economic where you really hurt a country. It could take years and years to recover. And the longer you stay out, the harder it is to recover. I happen to think that youre going to have, they call it the V, I think youre going to have a very big bounce, you know, a very big bounce back. I think its going to be very big. Well see. Well, I think the bill should pass. Its should pass quickly. Take care of our workers, take care of the companies that pay those workers, help those companies over this rough patch. But the longer it takes, the harder it is to come back. Id like to be able to bounce back to where we were. And ultimately I think were going to be even further than that. But Im just saying that the Whats happening when I say the cure and the cure could be worse than the problem itself. Right? Thats what I, we cant let that happen. We cant let that happen.  Weve learned so much and so many good things are going to happen for our country. We cant let this continue to go on. What were doing is were meeting with the doctors, Dr.Fauci, Dr. Birx and others and were, weve already started the discussion. And I can say that Im a student like youre students. Were all learning this together. I learned a lot from Deborah. I learned a lot from Tony.  I learned a lot from a lot of people that this is, this has been their lifes work. Ive learned a lot. Were going to come up with a date and were going to do two things. We can do two things at one time. At the same time, were going to be very vigilant. Were going to be so vigilant in terms of all of the things that we have to do that weve been talking about for the last two weeks ad nauseum. And I think its going to be ultimately a far better solution for our country. Yeah, please go ahead.  want her to go back and you want her to go back to work. Immediately. Thank you. Great job. Thank you, Deborah. Yeah, Deborah? They wont let you go. Thank you. Go ahead, one second, please. Well, it is. Its something were talking to a lot of people about. Well see what happens, but were talking to people about it. Go ahead, please. Let me just, I was just with him for a long time. And- Oh, hes at the task force meeting right now. We have a task force meeting. He was there. Well, he doesnt not agree. I mean, we had a long talk and he understands this tremendous, theres a tremendous cost to our country, both in terms of lives and in terms of economics and in terms of many, many years of rebuilding something that was a fine tuned machine. It was nobodys fault. It just happened. This horrible virus came from wherever and it just happened. It just happened. He fully understands that now. Hes a good man. I like Dr. Fauci a lot, just so you understand.  No, hes not here because we really werent discussing what hes best at, but hell be back up very soon. Yeah, please. And well be discussing dates and times with him. And we are talking about a I dont want to use the word abbreviated because so much has been gained by what weve done. But were talking about not during the period, you know, during the 14 or 15 days, but not too long after that- Which, I think is going to make a lot of people happy. Its going to make a lot of companies happy. Its going to make a lot of workers happy. Yeah, John? I would certainly, hes very important to me and I would, I will be listening to him. Ill be listening to Deborah, who you just spoke to. Ill be listening to other experts. We have a lot of people that are very good at this, and ultimately, its a balancing act, but-  Ultimately, its a balancing act, but the expression, we can do two things at one time and weve got an incredible country. We have to keep it that way and that includes not just economics, that also includes life and death. We have to keep it that way. Well, Ive gotten to like this room. This room is very convenient. I can say from the standpoint of being president of the United States I really This has been a very convenient room for all of us. You people are set up, so I never even thought of closing it. So youre asking me a question that I never thought in terms of closing it. Can you give me a good reason to close it? We could build a larger one. I dont want to make commitments like that because its not something Ive ever really thought about. There are certain people that would like to see a larger room built. We need a larger room. Other presidents didnt need such a large room, but we need a larger room and there are some people, but its not something that is really on my mind to be honest with you. Yes, please. Which period? I think were listening to many people. I mean that was my world. I know many of those people. I have many people that are friends of mine, some enemies also by the way. But its been a good world for me. I like that world. I like those people. Theyre tough and theyre smart. But I listened to many of them. Ultimately, they all go into that computer and I say, this is what were going to do. I have to make a decision. This is a very important man right here to my right, our great vice president, because hes got a great instinct about things too. So Im going to be listening to my case, headed up the task force I think brilliantly. I think its going to go down as that because hes really done a job. Not only has he been good, hes been soothing. Hes really been great for the American public to watch it.  I mean that in the most positive way. Theres a solidity with Mike that you dont find in many people. Hes been soothing. Hes been good for the American public. They have confidence in him. I think hes done an incredible job and his advice is very, very important to me. So hes going to be making I mean, he didnt come from that world, the world of finance, but he understands the world of finance. He was a great governor in Indiana. They did very well financially too. I can give you a whole list and well probably even set up committees. Id rather give you one because then Im going to leave out I have spoken to so many people and- What? I am happy with him. Yes. I think hes I really think hes a caught up and hes done the right thing and I think ultimately we will be rewarded because of the decision he made over the last Hes really stepped up over the last week and I have to tell you, I called him today and I said, Jerome, good job. You really did it . It might be, he was just a little bit slower than I would have liked in the sense of what he was doing. Now, other people might have liked it, but today I called up Jerome Powell and I said, Jerome, youve done a really good job. I was proud of him. That took courage and ultimately youre going to see the fruits. Now. Hes not finished. I mean, hes got other arrows in the quiver or whatever they say, I will tell you hes got plenty of arrows. But no, Im very happy with the job he did. No wait, I just want to say, were thinking about it. China has very much stepped up as you probably know, the agricultural purchases from our farmers and some other purchases too. So they have a difficult time also right now. But theyve very much stepped up their purchases and significantly. So were very happy about that. The other thing, Im standing here, this case with our vice president trying to let you ask anything you want having to do with the subject, which frankly is pretty much all anyone cares about right now. Because I think its very important. I dont want to stand here for two hours and do this, but I think its important that I call it get it out of your system. Give us any question about it because I think its important for the public to know. So we dont want to answer two questions and leave. We want to answer your questions.  Thats why were doing this for so long. I think it gives our country confidence and it gives I think were all gaining knowledge. This has been an unbelievable process, but were all getting So I want to stay here. Sometimes were here for two hours and were answering questions. At least you will say that Im very transparent. I think youre going to have a hard time saying he is not transparent. But we take a lot of questions from you. Unfortunately, some of them are repetitive and some of them are fantastic questions. Some of these questions are great. Some of the questions lead to us solving a problem. You bring up problems that people didnt know existed. But I just want to let you know so were doing this so that we can be transparent so that we can get everything out. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. Were very, very close to them. We had a couple of great talks plus Ive spoken to a number of them individually. Yeah, were very, very closely aligned. Please. Thats going to make a big difference because that really is a process thats easy as opposed to the current process, which is not, as Ive said, its not pleasant. Yeah. Then ultimately I have to make a decision, but I certainly listened to them. I listened to a number of people. I have a lot of respect for Dr. Fauci and for Dr. Birx and Ill be listening to them and others that we have that are really doing good. John. We have now a system and the systems in place and we have two very, very powerful alternatives that we have to take into consideration. And as I said, one of the things that has really gotten me thinking about this, number one, Im looking at whats going on and you know its life is fragile and economies are fragile, but one of the things is the mortality rate, John. When we first started this, nobody knew anything about this particular virus. Very, very little. I mean we started, if we were hearing numbers of 5% that would, thats an astronomical number when the flu is 0.001 and two and three, right? So 5% would be an astronomical number. Now were seeing numbers that may be less than one and thats not including the exercise that I just went through where many people dont report. So everybody getting very sick is reporting, but nobody getting not very sick.  That should be part of that equation. So that just keeps reducing the number. So the mortality rate, thats a big To me thats a very big factor. When we were hearing three and 4%, remember we had one day where we thought it was 5% and were getting a lot of bad numbers from countries that, I dont know why, but we were getting a lot of bad numbers. I do wish, again, our relationships very good with China, but I wished they could have told us about this a little bit sooner. You know that. But the mortality rate is a big thing for me because I think were very substantially under 1% now. Its still terrible. Its still the whole thing. The whole concept of death is terrible, but theres a tremendous difference between something under 1% and four or five or even 3%. So thats something that were learning now. I think the number may be lower than people think because of what Ive been saying. Yeah, please. Well, I thought we had a deal last night and then the Democrats changed the deal. So we had a deal last night that was going to be phenomenal for the workers, which is my number one aim. I want to take care of the workers and we had a deal. I was pretty sure we had a deal last night if you would told me at a certain time about 9:00 I would have told you we pretty much have a deal. And then all of a sudden it changed. It changed fairly rapidly. It was unaccepted. It would have been bad for our country and they were asking for things that would have not been good. I mean things that that bore no relationship to what were talking about and we said thats not the game. We cant play that game. So well see. Look, the Democrats do want to make a deal. But Jeff, I thought we had a deal last night. Ill work with anybody to help the American people. I will. I dont care who it is. Ill work with anybody. If I feel Im going to help the American people and the American worker. Yeah, please. Well, you just saw the Admiral and you just saw the FEMA people and you just saw the army corps of engineers. Were building hospitals in New York and California and State of Washington and New Jersey. I just made a commitment to fill that were going to help him out with some of the areas in New Jersey, which is very important, a great state. So, were doing a great job and with it to help the governors, but the governors are on the front line and they can do some of it themselves. Governor Cuomo, hes been working very hard and he worked with me on the hospitals and medical centers because its not just hospitals, its called hospital and another is medical centers of which were building numerous for New York. We have it all laid out. We have Javits center and then we have other locations throughout the state.  I think its really a great plan and were going to have FEMA and the army corps of engineers involved. Ive worked with them were building a wall. Were up to over 150 miles of wall on our Southern border, which is now turning out to be even more important than we originally thought. But I always thought it was very important having borders. So, Im working with the army corps of engineers and I see what they do and how they do it. Thats used to be my business. I know it very well and theyre very professional. Theyre really good.  So youre going to see a lot of good things happening in many States beyond the States. I just mentioned in many States, were working with governor Ron DeSantis in Florida. Were working with governor McMaster, right? In South Carolina where they have a little bit of a breakout, not by comparison but a little bit. Were working with many, many governors and many, many states. Actually States where you almost would think that they have it under pretty good control and theyve done a great job, but were working with many states and thats primarily FEMA and the army corps of engineer. Theyre capable of doing it. Well, a lot of the provisions that they wanted, like stock buy backs. I agree with it. Thats good with me. I mean, I dont like them buying back stock. I like them spending money on airplanes and on their employees and they real business, not buying back stock. I dont know if that provision is going to be put in one way or the other. But Im all for it and many Republicans, I can tell you are for it and I think many Democrats are for it. But they were putting that out like it was a problem last night. Not a problem for me, I can tell you that, please. Well, I think when youre talking about right now is at least $3,000 per family of four in that correct. $3,000 for a family of four, which is bold. If this continued, we have to build this up and if this continued well do something else and well do more at a later date. But thats a big number. If you remember, they were talking about $500 and $600 and we are all for the three. As of this moment, its $3,000 for a family of four. Please go ahead. Well, we have a very strong dollar and a strong dollar is good in many ways, but its also tough in many ways because it makes trade much harder. It makes it much harder for a Caterpillar tractor and other companies to sell their goods to Europe or China or wherever they may be sold. So having a strong dollar is good, but it really sounds good. But the truth is it makes certain things like trade much tougher. Our dollar, I dont know if youve seen, but our dollars have been very strong, especially against other currencies, very, very strong. Which again, makes that trading more difficult. But theres something nice about having a strong dollar, right? No matter what, Im president, I used to have a strong dollar, but it does make trading more different. Well, I think the Democrats want a deal and I think we want to deal. So it would be very foolish if they didnt make a deal. The American public is demanding it. I can tell you the Republicans want to make a deal and we want to make a deal thats good for the workers, good for the country. I really believe the Democrats want to make a deal, but they have to stop asking for things that bear no relationship to what were talking about. That are actually bad. That are actually not good for the country. Well, lets see what happens. I have to see what happens. Right now we dont have a deal, but I think were very close. I mean, when I left, which was quite a while ago now, because again, were trying to answer every question so theres no Be nice if you were just exhausted and said, Thats it. We cant do any more. But theres always hands up. Maybe one of those questions is great and unique, but now look I want whats good for the country and if that means meeting, I think thats great. I just want whats good for the country, great for our workers, great for the citizens of the United States. Thats all it - Its been a little. Yeah, please. Yes. Shes great. Shes fine. Negative. Well, we need that to help all of these companies that have a chance of not being companies anymore, and thats going to be a good thing for the country because deals will be made and were talking to certain people. Some of the greatest people in the history of Wall Street, frankly. Where when they do a deal, well have stock for America. Well take back stock for the United States. At the same time, most importantly, well keep those companies healthy, but we can also make incredible deals for the country so that that number will increase exponentially. I mean, this is Oh look, Ill be the oversight. Ill be the oversight. Were going to make good deals. We make good deals, but these companies need it. Even if it was just a simple loan, which would be. But we can do better than that and the companies are willing to do better than that. I mean, they got hit. Most of these companies, it was through no fault of their own. There are a couple where they were troubled before they came in. We talked about one, it had troubled, nobody can believe it actually in that one.  But these companies are through no fault of their own. They have difficulty. I mean, two weeks ago, these companies were among the most solid institutions in the world. Youd want to buy their bonds, their bonds were rated AAA or whatever their highest rating is today. Now all of a sudden they have difficulty because theyve been closed up. So you need something to keep them going, but that money is not going to be wasted money. That moneys going to be seen. We could multiply that number by many times coming back to the American public, that could be a phenomenal thing. But most importantly, its going to keep these great engines of jobs and ingenuity going. Very important. How about one or two more and well go. Go ahead please . I dont think so. Im looking forward. I dont look back. I guess theres always something everybody regrets. There things in your life you regret. We all regret things, but I really like to look forward. Im a person that looks Forward thinker. I guess they would say. No, I think that weve handled it really well. It seems to be the American public thinks that weve handled it well. If you look at polling data, but Im not interested in myself. Im interested in the American people. We have to get this going. We have millions and millions of jobs that were solid as a rock three weeks ago and today there could be questions.  The faster we get it going, the more likely it is that those stores, little businesses, big businesses, medium sized businesses open up and well get it going very fast. I really believe this is a pent up demand. I think that as soon as we say, Lets go. Its going to be pretty soon. Its going to be pretty soon. Its going to be sooner than people would think. Again, were in a position to take care of our country, but at the same time to have the country really, really go up like a rocket ship economically. Thats great for jobs. Its great for everything else. Yeah, please. For who? Well thats really up to the governor. I mean I think first of all, hes a great governor. Hes done an incredible job. Governor DeSantis of Florida and on the beaches, I guess hes recently made a decision, but you do have a lot of room on the beaches. I think its just a decision that he made originally and then hes refined it and then hes done something that a lot of people agree with what hes done, but hes done a lot of things right. Hes been truly I mean, he cares so much about health care, he cares so much about the cost of prescription drugs. Hes been a fantastic governor for Florida. Theyre very happy with them.  The whole concept of the beach, its a very interesting issue. There are a lot of open spaces that includes parks and other things, but rather than relying on social distancing, theyre probably going to do that one in a different way. But I would imagine when we make our decision, things like that would be opened up and then people will remember what theyre supposed to be doing. Well, I want to thank everybody very much and well see you tomorrow sometime and well get this going, I think really well. Thank you all very much. Appreciate it ."
"Thank you, Bill. Well thats true. Well, I think when I started seeing and reading about China, and seeing what was going on in China, Wuhan specifically, it seemed to come mostly out of there, that area, the province. And when I saw that and I saw the death they were talking about on television, in the papers, and I started reading a lot about it. And really when I had to make a decision, do I stop people from China and specifically that area, but from China, to come into the country and everybody was against it, almost everybody I would say was just absolutely against it. Weve never done it before. We never made a decision like that- No, there was instinct to know. We had a large group of people right behind me in the Oval Office and I made I consulted with Mike, but we made a decision, I made a decision to close off to China. That was weeks early and honestly, I took a lot of heat. Sleepy Joe Biden said, Its xenophobic. I dont know if he knows what that means, but thats okay. He said, Its racist, what I did. Thousands and thousands of more people, probably tens of thousands, would be dead right now if I didnt make that decision, and I must say doctors, nobody wanted to make that decision at the time. It was very, very early. Call it luck or call talent, it doesnt matter, we made a great decision. I took a lot of heat from China, they werent happy with it. Now they understand it. Theyve really Were doing just fine, but they were not happy with it. I took a lot of heat from a lot of people. I really didnt get- Yeah, when you say, I took a lot of heat for that, essentially. I really didnt, I mean, a lot of people agree with me. Our countrys not supposed to be Its not built to shut down. Our people are full of vim and vigor and energy, they dont want to be locked into a house or an apartment or some space, its not for our country, were not built that way. And I said, I dont want the cure to be worse than the problem itself, the problem being obviously the problem. You can destroy a country this way by closing it down where it literally goes from being the most prosperous, I mean, we had the best economy in the history of our country three weeks ago and then all of a sudden was supposed to shut it down, and then were supposed to pay people not to go to work. We never had that. We used to pay people to go to work when we had a problem. Oh, its very tricky. It is, it is. Well, you have to make the decision. Look, we lose thousands, I brought some numbers here, we lose thousands and thousands of people a year to the flu. We dont turn the country off, I mean every year. Now when I heard the number, we average 37,000 people a year. Can you believe that? And actually this year were having a bad flu season, but we lose thousands of people a year to the flu. We never turn the country off. We lose much more than that to automobile accidents. We didnt call up the automobile companies, say, Stop making cars. We dont want any cars anymore. We have to get back to work. Now, with all of that being said, its incredible what the American people have done and honestly the American people have learned, weve all learned together between the shaking of the hands of the washing of the hands. Well, I used to wash my hands and I always wash my hands a lot, I never was a big believer in shaking hands, once I become a politician, you shake hands and you get a little bit used to it. Immediately when I see you, I apologize that Im not shaking your hand. I never like to see that, actually. Yeah, more than that. Sure. I canceled the deal last night. I said, Im not going to sign that deal, because Nancy Pelosi came in and put a lot of things in the deal that had nothing to do with the workers, that had to do with an agenda that theyve been trying to get passed for 10 years. And I came in, I told Mike, I told a lot of people, Theres no way Im signing that deal. I was getting calls from John Kennedy, from Ben Sasse, from many, many people, Lindsay, I was getting calls from a lot of different people saying this deal, Tom Cotton, this deal is terrible what theyve done. They took a deal, we almost had a deal the day before and it was between Schumer and Mitch and it was really a good solid deal. All of a sudden they start throwing all of the little Green New Deal stuff in, right?  And the boardrooms, what they look like, and we want green energy, we want all this stuff, lets stop drilling oil. They had things in there that were terrible, windmills all over the place and all sorts of credits for windmills. They kill the birds and ruin the real estate, right? A lot of problems. I mean a lot of problems. And I said, Im not signing this deal.- Now theyve renegotiated it- But we have great things for not only companies, forget the companies, the companies are nothing other than they are an employer of thousands and thousands of people and they pay them very well, we want to protect our workers. I want to protect our workers, workers first, but you have to protect companies like Boeing. They had a real bad year, lets face it with the problems, and they were in trouble before this and then all of a sudden this happened.  We cant lose a Boeing and we cant lose some of these companies and companies, frankly Bill, that were solid as AAA companies because of whats happened over the last couple of weeks, they go from AAA to being like they could use a hand. We cant, right, we cant lose those companies. If we lose those companies, were talking about hundreds of thousands of jobs, millions of jobs. The faster we go back, the better its going to be. We have a pent up energy thats going to be unbelievable. Were going to bring it back fast, I really believe that. Sure. Shes great. Do I have an earplug here? If I can do that. Okay. Okay, well first of all I have to say that Harris is one of my favorite people and I didnt hear a word she said and I was hoping it wasnt too devastating a question, but she is a fantastic person. I have to say that. Okay, now that Ive said it because I cant hear Harris, but no, the bill is very much focused on the small business person. Its very much focused on small companies including restaurants and all sorts of small companies, and what people dont realize, youre talking about these massive, we have the greatest companies in the world.  You add them all up and the small businesses are just about equal in size to these massive companies of which we have many, also. Its the engine of our country, small business. This bill is absolutely aimed at the small business and the worker, and the workers of those small businesses and the owners, the owners are going to need help. Theyre going to need some loans, theyre going to need things and were going to be able to take care of them because we dont want those small businesses to go out of business, nor do we want the big businesses to go out of business. Well, I tell you, I never heard of such a thing. Weve had flues where we lose 36,000, weve lost as many I guess as 78,000 people in one year.  And they came in and they said, To be sure, were going to have to close the country, I said, What are you talking about? Well we have a virus. Its coming in. And I knew that and I made the early decision with China. So I already closed it off to China and that was a long time before they came in. But they came in, experts, and they said, Were going to have to close the country. I said, Weve never closed the country before. This has never happened before. I said, Are you serious about this? We are going to take this country thats fully employed. Well we have 160 million people working and youre telling me we have to close it and people are going to go out of business and theyre going to go bankrupt and theyre not going to have jobs. What are we talking about here?  This, dont forget, this has never been done. Weve had flues before, weve had viruses before. So this is something new and this is why I say we have to I gave it two weeks and I guess by Monday or Tuesday is about two weeks, and well assess at that time and well give it some more time if we need a little more time, but we have to open this country up. Look, I accept things, I understand things very quickly. I mean, I understood exactly what they were saying, but we can socially distance ourselves and go to work and youll have to work a little bit harder. You can clean your hands five times more than you used to. You dont have to shake hands anymore with people, that might be something good coming out of this. Although I must tell you as a politician, its a lot warmer when you walk into a crowd and youre shaking a lot of peoples hands, you love those people. They loved me and I loved them, but it is a little bit colder. But you wont be shaking hands for at least a while and things will happen. But we have to put the country to work. Look, youre going to lose a number of people to the flu, but youre going to lose more people by putting a country into a massive recession or depression, youre going to lose people. Youre going to have suicides by the thousands, youre going to have all sorts of things happen. Youre going to have instability. You cant just come in and say, lets close up the United States of America, the biggest, the most successful country in the world by far. When I came in, when I was elected, and you knew this number, China was going to overtake us in the year 2019, wasnt even close. We went way up and they didnt. Weve done great. They pay us a fortune and tariffs and everything else, and yet we have a good relationship with them. We just signed a trade deal. But were the number one in the world by far. And now a few people walk into the Oval Office, say, Sir, we have to close up the country. I said, What are you talking about?  I said, what are you talking about? One of the most difficult decisions Ive ever made because I knew that when you do it, as soon as you do it, youre going to drop. I mean, theyre talking about 20 or 25 points of GDP. Nobodys ever heard of 25 points. If we went down a point, thats a big deal. Now all of a sudden youre basically turning off the country. I said, this has never been done before. What are you talking about? But we understand it, you have hotspots, but weve had hotspots before, weve had horrible flus. I mean, think of it, we average 36,000 people death, death. Im not talking about cases. Im talking about death. 36,000 deaths a year. People die, 36, from the flu, but weve never closed down the country for the flu. So you say to yourself, what is this all about. Now, its never been done. Not good. I wasnt happy about it and I also knew that I had to do it. Look, with Turkey, I give this as an example, and Syria, I said, sign a deal with the Kurds, make peace. Erdogan, he didnt want to. Hes a man who loves Turkey and I have a very good relation. I said, sign a deal. He didnt really want to, the Kurds didnt really want to, and it went on, the so-called safe zone, recently, few months ago. I said, sign a deal, do me a favor, sign the deal, get it done. They didnt really want to. All of a sudden they start fighting, fighting, fighting, fighting, and it was vicious and other countries got involved. Now I say, lets sign a deal. They said, okay, well sign a deal.  We needed a period because I dont think if I would have not done it, we would have been unbelievably criticized for not doing it, but its never been done before. Bill, somehow the word got out that this is the thing were supposed to be doing. Now weve had some really bad epidemics and other things. I mean this pandemic, but weve had bad epidemics. Im sure they could have been called pandemics. But we never did a thing like this before, but I had to do it. Its been very painful for our country and very destabilizing for our country and we have to go back to work much sooner than people thought. And people can go back to work and they can also practice good judgment. What I said is perfect, was my conversation with the head of the Ukraine. Thats what I really said is perfect. Okay, that was another whole scandal, nonsense, a total witch hunt. But this one is a much different thing. We had other administrations, not just the last one, they built up a platform. They built up a test, but the test was no good. It didnt handle large numbers of people. It was okay for a very small group but not for a large group. So we had to break it down- No, we did not screw up. I dont think CDC screwed up either. They had a test that would have worked for a small group of people. In other words, for a normal problem. I dont think anybody could have, in all fairness to CDC, and this is a big government agency and theyre very good people in there, but nobody ever expected a thing like this. Nobody would say that millions and millions of people would have been tested. So what we did is we broke that egg, we broke that system, and weve created a new system that now were doing unbelievably big numbers and its set for the future should we ever need it again. I hope we dont need it again. Well, I think theyre actually coming together. We had a bill that was done the other night and then all of a sudden somebody else injected herself in and all  we didnt have anything that was even remotely signable. But now I hear just from a few minutes ago that theyre doing well and its for the workers, its for the people of the country and I hear theyre doing pretty well, so well see how it comes out. I watched Governor Cuomo and he was very nice. Were building him hospitals. Were building him medical centers and he was complaining about  were doing probably more, definitely more than anybody else. And he was talking about the ventilators, but he should have ordered the ventilators and he had a choice, he had a chance because right here, I just got this out that he refused to order 15,000 ventilators. Ill show this to Bill, but take a look at that, Bill. What does that say? This says that New York Governor Cuomo rejected buying recommended 16,000 ventilators in 2015 for the pandemic, for a pandemic, established death panels and lotteries instead. So he had a chance to buy in 2015, 16,000 ventilators at a very low price and he turned it down. Im not blaming him or anything else, but he shouldnt be talking about us. Hes supposed to be buying his own ventilators. Were going to help. But if you think about, Governor Cuomo, were building him four hospitals, were building him four medical centers, were working very, very hard for the people of New York. Were working along with him and then I watch him on the show complaining. And he had 16,000 ventilators that he could have had at a great price that he didnt buy them. Wow, is that great? Well, you obviously come from West Virginia. I love that state and thank you very much, Joyce. Ill tell you what, thats great. I wish we had more people like Joyce, Ill tell you. But its going to be a substantial amount of money, around $3,000 for a family of four. And assuming it all gets done, assuming we can get the Democrats to sign it, but itll be great. But Joyce, I think thats such a nice gesture, really I appreciate it, thank you. Well, I think the Dow was helped by the fact that there were theories that were going to stay out for four or five months and you cant do that as a  you destroy our country if you did a thing like that. And were going to be opening relatively soon. Our time comes up, Monday or Tuesday are the allotted two weeks, but well stay a little bit longer than that. But we want to get open very soon. I think that was a big reason its gone up. I also think that the fact that the Senate and the House, we seem to be getting along as much as you can get along. We seem to be getting along now on a bill. I think that may be had even less of an impact and the fact that were opening up this incredible country because we have to do that. Id love to have it open by Easter, okay. I would love to have it open by Easter. I will tell you that right now. I would love to have that. Its such an important day for other reasons, but Ill make it an important day for this too. I would love to have the country opened up and theyre just raring to go by Easter. Thats very good. Oh, absolutely. Because he has other things to do. We get along very well. I think its been very good. You would have heard about it if it wasnt. I mean, every time hes not at a meeting, and sometimes other people too, they said, Why isnt a Dr. Birx at a meeting? Is there a problem? And I said, Debra, could you please come to the meeting? Do you mind? Because I respect all of these people, these are great people and Debra is extraordinary and Tonys extraordinary. I get along with all of them, but if theres they have other things to do. And yesterday we werent really talking about what hes an expert on, we were talking about other things, a lot of other things. And I dont think they should be at every news conference. Yeah, were fine. Were fine. Harris, one thing I might add- Harris, one thing I might add, that to me is so important, again, we took something that was broken and we made it the model. And I didnt even know, I just heard the number for the first time from Deborah, that in a short period of time, weve more testing than South Korea. Now youre not going to read that in the newspapers because they dont like to write things like that, but Id love you to say that one more time because thats a big number. Weve done more than South Korea in a short period of time. Were doing more now than South Korea by a lot . What was that number? Were going up proportionately. Were going up very, very rapidly. Every day were going up- Do you blame the governor for that? Thank you. Its true. Yes. Its okay. I think its possible, why isnt it? I mean, weve never closed the country before and weve had some pretty bad flus and weve had some pretty bad viruses, and I think its absolutely possible. Now, people are going to have to practice all of the social distancing, and dont shake hands and wash your hands and all of the things that were doing now, but we have to get our country back to work. Our country wants to be back at work. That was not a controversial thing I said the other day, our country wants to go back to work. And again, the cure, its like this cure is worse than the problem. Again, people, many people in my opinion, more people are going to die if we allow this to continue. We have to go back to work. Our people want to go back to go back to work. It may be. Well, they have their family fortune on the line the other way too. Theyre going to lose their jobs, maybe never to get them back. Theyre going to lose their businesses, never to get them back. We want to start up as soon as we can because were going to have a very quick comeback if we do that. If we delay this thing out, youre going to lose more people than youre losing with the situation as we know it. So, I think its very important for our-  The situation is we know it. So I think its very important for our country to go back. And Ive had many, many people  When you said it was a little bit controversial, not to most people. Most people think Im right about it. Now, whether were locked in a room or whether were in our office and practicing all of the things that were supposed to be a practicing, staying away from each other, et cetera, not shaking hands, washing your hands all the time. But our country has to get back to work, otherwise its going to be very hard to start it up again. We cant lose the advantage that we have. Bill, excuse me, just one second. You cant compare this to 1918 where close to a hundred million people died. That was a flu, which is a little different, but that was a flu where if you got it, you had a 50/50 chance or very close of dying. I think were substantially under 1% because the people that get better are not reporting. So we only know people that go to doctors and go to hospitals and were taking that and were still a little bit above 1%. When you add all of the people, the millions of people that have it that get better, were substantially less than 1%, and when they came to my office, dont forget, they were saying 3%, 4%, 5%. Theres a very big difference. No, we have to put our country back to work. I do. I think doctor, its a very good thing and Governor Newsom and I have been getting along really great with sending the ship, the great hospitals ship, as you know, and we are doing very well with, I think almost all of the governors. For the most part, it really has become something, we are dealing almost every day with speaking to each other, whether its conference calls. Usually well have 50 governors of the call at the same time. No, I think were doing very well, but you know, its a two-way street. They have to treat us well also. They cant say, Oh gee, we should get this. We should get that.  Were doing a great job like in New York where were building, as I said, four hospitals, four medical  Were literally building hospitals and medical centers and then I hear that theres a problem with ventilators. Well we sent them ventilators and they could have had 15 or 16000. All they had to do is order them two years ago, but they decided not to do it. They cant blame us for that. Well I think doctor a thing like that could happen, but I really believe that we could do much of what were doing and we could do it from a work environment instead of an environment where everybodys locked up and everybody is saying, Oh, the business is gone, the business is gone, and everybodys suffering depression. You know better than anybody about depression. Ive watched where you talk about depression and that causes death and it causes a lot of problems and these are people they want to save their business. They dont want to be locked up in some room or some apartment or house, and in the meantime, their restaurants close, their businesses close. They want to be saving their business.  And I believe very strongly youre going to lose far more people by going that way than you are if we kept this thing going. I could keep them out. Im sure that we have doctors that would say, Lets keep it closed for two years, okay? Lets close it up for two years. No. We got to get it open. Our people want it open and thats the way this country was built. And Nicole, its important to remember weve done more tests in eight days than South Korea has done in eight weeks. And our tests are better, theyre highly sophisticated and frankly I took one. Its not the most pleasant thing in the world, I will tell you that. Were going to have a much simpler test very soon, but we have a really good test and weve done more in eight days. Nobody knows that. I just heard this number a few minutes ago. I learned it from being on your show actually. Pretty impressive. And you hangar right. Hangar right under the eye. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Thank you very much. So, nice to be with you. America continues to gain ground in the war against the virus. I want to thank the American people for answering the call, following our guidelines and making the sacrifices required to overcome this terrible threat more aggressively. We commit to social distancing. So important social distancing, such an important phrase, and we do it right now the more lives we can save and the sooner we can eventually get people back to work, back to school, and back to normal. And there are large sections of our country probably can go back much sooner than other sections and were obviously looking at that also. People are asking, Is that an alternative? And I say, Absolutely. It is an alternative.  I have now approved major disaster declarations for New York, California, Washington, Iowa, Louisiana, Texas, and Florida. That has great significance as you know, and legal significance. Were in a constant grouping and I can say this we have a large grouping of people that does nothing but communicate with the various officials including, weve been spending a lot of time with New York officials because that really is by far the hottest spot. Theyve got a number of very tough weeks ahead of them. The governor is doing a very good job. I spoke to the governor, Governor Cuomo, last night and this morning and he mentioned that in his remarks that hes using, that we are using and I think he feels, cause he understands negotiation, he thinks were using very appropriately the Defense Production Act and we are. Were using it where needed. Its a great point of leverage. Its a great negotiating tool. But Ive really, I will tell you theres tremendous spirit from people and tremendous spirit with respect to these companies and I dont have to use it very much at all. They want to do it. As you know, General Motors is involved, Fords involved, 3Ms involved, others are involved and theyre all working very hard to produce product, different, all different products. We had very little product when we came. We built it up and we give it away as fast as we can to the different states.  Were also, as you know, building numerous hospitals and medical centers throughout certain areas. In New York its at the convention center, the Javits Convention Center. Were doing four hospitals and were doing throughout the state four medical centers there, somewhat different. I want you to know that Im doing everything in my power to help the city pull through this challenge. Im working very hard on New York. Its really by far our biggest problem. Maybe it will be, maybe it wont be, but theres a lot of good capable people working on it with us and our teams are working very well with the state representatives. Were also doing some very large testings throughout the country. I told you yesterday that in South Korea, and this is not a knock in any way because I just spoke with President Moon, we had a very good conversation about numerous other things, but theyve done a very good job in testing but we now are doing more testing than anybody by far. We do more in eight days than they do in eight weeks and we go up on a daily basis exponentially, so its really good.  By the way, while Im on it, I also spoke with Prime Minister Abe of Japan last night and I congratulated him on a wise choice. I think its going to be a fantastic Olympics, 2021. I think its going to be a fantastic Olympics. It was the absolute right decision to delay it for a full year and now have a full beautiful Olympics. Its going to be very important because its probably the first time, maybe ever or certainly in a long time that it was on a odd year. Its always on an even year they tell me. But hes going to have a fantastic success and now theyll have even more time. He didnt need any more time. Everything was perfectly ready. What a job theyve done. But Japan, I want to congratulate Japan, the IOC, and Prime Minister Abe on a great decision. I think its going to be a fantastic Olympics. I told him Ill be there, Ill be there.  As we fight to protect American lives, were also protecting American livelihoods. Democrats and Republicans in the Senate are very close to passing an emergency relief bill for American workers, families, and businesses. This legislation in addition to the two bills I signed this month that includes, as you know, sick leave and we have all sorts of things in for the workers, for families, but we have a tremendous paid sick leave provision for workers at no cost at all to the employers. And thats a big thing, no cost to the employers. We want to get everybody back working. Together, this $2.2 trillion legislative package is bigger than anything I believe ever passed in Congress. Perhaps, relatively speaking, if you go back look during the FDR New Deal days there was something that if you time value it you could say it was bigger. I dont know, but this is certainly in terms of dollars by far and away the biggest ever, ever done, and thats a tremendous thing because a lot of this money goes to jobs, jobs, jobs and families, families, families.  The Senate bill, as you know, includes $350 billion in job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying their workers. They continue paying their workers. Thats what we want. We want them to keep their workers and pay their workers. This will help businesses keep workers in the payroll and allow our economy to quickly accelerate as soon as we defeat the virus. $300 billion in direct cash payments will be available for every American citizen earning less than $99,000 per year. That would be $3,400 very quickly for the typical family of four. Nothing like thats ever been done in our country. Up to $250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. The average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100% of their salary for up to four full months. Unlike normal unemployment benefits, independent contractors and the self-employed will be eligible, so you have independent contractors and self-employed people will be eligible for this.  Over $100 billion to support the heroic work of our doctors, nurses and hospitals. They have been incredible. $45 billion for Disaster Relief Fund. We are setting up a fund, a $45 billion for disaster relief. Thats more than doubling the amount available to support my national emergency and disaster declarations. Its a doubling up. $27 billion to build up the Strategic National Stockpile with critical supplies including masks, respirators, pharmaceuticals, and everything you can imagine because it was very depleted like our military was depleted. Now we have a brand new military. Never had a military like this. We have equipment either coming or its already come, for the most part its already come, but we have a lot of things that will soon be coming; planes, missiles, rockets, lots of things. But the stockpile was very depleted like everything else.  This will also include significant funding for the development of vaccines on top of the $8 billion we approved several weeks ago. Over $500 billion in support for the hardest hit industries with a ban on corporate stock buybacks, which is something I insisted on and frankly I tell you the Republicans wanted that and the Democrats wanted that. We want them to use the money for the companies and the planes or whatever they may be helping to get over this rough patch. And I dont think its going to end up being such a rough patch. I think its going to, when we open, especially if we can open it the sooner the better, its going to open up like a rocket ship. I think its going to go very good and very quickly.  Youre going to have some tough new limits on executive compensation also. They need the money. Theyre going to have to sort of just make things work cause were interested in the workers, the jobs, and were interested in the companies cause thats really what fuels the workers in those great jobs. We also have $16 billion in funding for the purchase of personal protective equipment, you know about that, such as masks and respirators through the Strategic National Stockpile.  I encourage the House to pass this vital legislation and send the bill to my desk for signature without delay. I will sign it immediately. We will have a signing and itll be a great signing and a great day for the American worker and for American families and frankly for American companies, some of which were having the best years theyve ever had, those last few years, and then little bit less than a month ago they went into a position that they havent seen because of the hidden enemy, the virus.  Earlier today I spoke to the leaders of many of Americas amazing nonprofit organizations. I thank them for their unwaving and unwavering devotion to American people, to American families, to our nation. They have been fantastic. Theyve been collecting supplies, distributing food, supporting healthcare workers, caring for vulnerable workers and families. I encourage them to continue to do it, but Ill tell you the nonprofits have been fantastic. Theyve been great. Theyre great people actually. I know a lot of them.  Finally, I want to provide a brief update on the critical supplies through FEMA. The federal government has delivered or is in the process of shipping 9.4 million N95 respirators, think of that 9.4 million, 20 million surgical masks and we have others that we think are going to be delivered pretty quickly. The whole world, you know its not just us, its not just the states, the whole world is trying to get these things, so in competition with many, many countries. I believe today you broke the 150 mark for the virus. We have 150 countries, over 150 countries where you have this virus and nobody would ever believe a thing like thats possible. Nobody could have ever seen something like this coming, but now we know and we know it can happen and happen again. And if it does, somebodys going to be very well prepared because of what weve learned and how weve done. Its been incredible how weve done.  Remember, theres more tests than anybody by far and the news, the reporters, the media always likes to bring South Korea. They called me and they told me its amazing, your testing procedures are amazing. Plus we have a test thats a very high level test and its a test thats very accurate. 3.1 million face shields, 2.6 million surgical gowns, 14.6 million gloves, and almost 6,000 ventilators which go to the areas of greatest needs. We sent over the last day 4,000 ventilators to New York and I spoke with the governor about that. He was happy. I spoke with the mayor also about that, Mayor de Blasio. He was very happy. Its hard not to be happy with the job were doing that I can tell you.  Throughout this national emergency, everyday heroes continue to step forward and demonstrate the extraordinary character of our nation, including the people behind me. By the way, these people are amazing. They are amazing people and they become, I dont know, maybe I should just speak for myself, but to me theyve become friends. Maybe they dont like me. Maybe they dont. Maybe they do. I dont know. All I can tell you is theyre talented people, they work very hard.  In Maryland, a seven-year-old boy used his own birthday money to buy meals for dozens of senior citizens. In Nevada, a college student recruited 90 of her friends to help deliver groceries and supplies to the most vulnerable. This is happening all over the country, thousands and thousands of instances. I could stand up here all day and tell you about other things. In Minnesota, hundreds of medical students have volunteered to provide childcare for hospital workers, helping to keep our doctors and nurses on the front lines fighting to save lives. These inspiring Americans remind us that we all have a role to play in winning this great national battle and its really a worldwide battle. Were dealing with other nations all the time The people here are. I am a little bit. I take calls from a lot of people. Theyre in trouble. A lot of countries are in big trouble.  So, now we will hear from our great Secretary of the Treasury. Hes been working rather hard I will tell you. Steven Mnuchin is a fantastic guy and he loves our country and hes been dealing with both sides, Republican and Democrats. He sort of lived over in that beautiful building. Its a very beautiful building, to me one of the most beautiful buildings actually in the world, and hes gotten to know it, Steve, very well. So if we could have a little update Steve would be fantastic as to how were doing and what its looking like. Thank you. Thank you very much, Steve. Great job. Day and night, right? Day and night we were . That was a lot of work and well see how it all goes. We still need a vote, Steve, dont we? Do you have a question? Yes. Hopefully a long time. You know, well see. If we have to go back, we have to go back. Were going to take care of the American worker. Were going to take care of these companies that fuel this country and make the country great. Its not their fault. Its not their fault, but we think And dont forget, a lot of this is going to be to keep companies that are very strong, AAA-rated companies previously, to keep them going and its going to be in the form of loans, so the moneys going to come back. This moneys  And its going to be in the form of loans, so the moneys going to come back. A lot of this moneys coming back. Yeah. Well, Ive been saying that for a long time. Well, were reliant on many countries, where we give up our supply chains. We give up our factories. We give up our production facilities and we can buy it someplace else for a little bit lower price. But its really costing us more when that happens, because we lose jobs, we lose everything and we lose our independence and we cant let that happen. So well be making some changes. We have been making those changes. I dont know that well need that, but I think its happening by itself. I think a lot of things are happening. Well, we make the best medical equipment in the world, and you have some people like the European Union, they dont take it because they have specifications that dont allow our equipment in because its designed in a different way, even though its a better way. Its designed. Theyre all playing games against us, okay. Theyve been playing games against us for years and no president has ever done anything about it.  But the European Union, you look at medical equipment, we make the best medical equipment in the world, but we cant sell it, or not appropriately. And yet we take their medical equipment in our country. Were changing things, Steve. All of this is changing. But they have specifications, designed specifically, so that our equipment cant come into their countries. Its a very terrible thing thats happened to our country.  And let me tell you some of the people that took the biggest advantage of us, our allies. We talk about allies, they took advantage of us in many ways, financially as well as even militarily. Look, if you look at NATO, the abuse that was given to our country on NATO, where they wouldnt pay, and we were paying for everybody. Now, because of me, theyre paying a lot. Now, theyve paid 125, 135, billion dollars more.  And then ultimately Secretary General Stoltenberg, who I think you would say is maybe my biggest fan, we got him to pay an additional $400 billion, billion, other countries. But you know that. And then theres the trade. They make it almost impossible for us to have a fair deal. They know this. They know Im just waiting. We have all the advantages, by the way. Its going to be easy when I decide to do it, but this isnt the right time to do it. But weve been treated very, very unfairly by the European union.  Please, go ahead. I know the issue very well. We talked about it just a little while ago. Ill let, Steve, Im going to let you maybe discuss that. The one good thing, when you think about that, people would get actually more money, but we dont want to give a disincentive. But they have been talking about that. Its a good question, actually. Yes, maam, please. Ive been very much involved in that. He was a great gentleman and a great family. I have to say this and theyve been making the statement to the family, I believe, but its not looking good. He wasnt well for years, anyway, in Iran. Its not looking promising. Weve gotten so many people back. We got two people back this week, but Robert Levinson, who was outstanding, hes been sick for a long time. He had some rough problems prior to his detainment or capture. We feel terribly for the family. No, I dont accept that hes dead. I dont accept it. Im telling you, its not looking great, but I wont accept that hes dead. They havent told us that hes dead. But a lot of people are thinking that that is the case. Feel badly about it. What do you mean by election success? No. No, no, no. I think the media would like to see me do poorly in the election. Just so you understand. Are you ready? I think there are certain people that would like it not to open so quickly. I think there are certain people that would like it to do financially poorly because they think that would be very good as far as defeating me at the polls. And I dont know if thats so, but I do think its so that there are people in your profession that would like that to happen. I think its very clear. I think its very clear that there are people in your profession that write fake news. You do. She does. There are people in your profession that write fake news. They would love to see me, for whatever reason, because weve done one hell of a job. Nobodys done the job that weve done. And its lucky that you have this group here, right now, for this problem or you wouldnt even have a country left. Okay.  Go ahead in the back, please. Who you with? I think its pretty much, yeah. I dont know that that subjects going to come up. There is a lot of talk that thats how this all happened. Came out of China, and they say thats how it happened in China. So its something maybe it will be talked about, but its not the top of my list. I think were going to have a very good conference tomorrow. No, but we have tested more than anybody. I saw him. Yeah. How many? None. Okay. How many deaths are acceptable to me? None. Okay. None. If thats your question. Look, I saw him. I saw his statement. We have tested, by far, more than anybody. Were testing more than anybody right now. Theres nobody even close. And our tests are the best tests. Theyre the most accurate tests. But if youre saying were going to test 350 million people, I watched his statement, I disagree with it.  We can go to certain States. I could name them now, but Im not going to do that. But we can go to certain States right now. They have virtually no problem or a very small problem. We dont have to test the entire state in the Middle West or wherever they may be. We dont have to test the entire state. I think its ridiculous. We dont have to do it. A lot of those States could go back right now and they probably will, because at some point in the not too distant future, certain States are going to come off the rolls. Maybe New York cant and maybe California cant. Maybe the state of Washington cant. Although if you look at them, their biggest problem was in one nursing home. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, youre going to look at that. But if you take a look at the States and many States that Im talking about, they dont have a problem. We have some big problems, but its confined to certain areas, high density areas. So why would we test the entire nation, 350 people? With that being said, Im going to say it again, we tested far more than anybody else. We have the ability to test weve come a long way from an obsolete, broken system that I inherited. We have now tested, with the best test, far more than anybody else. When I say anybody else, Im talking about other countries. No country is even close.  They came out with a statistic, I guess a yesterday, that I heard from Dr. Burks where its for eight days here, more than eight weeks in South Korea. And South Korea has done a good job, but we did in eight days more than South Korea did in eight weeks. Thats a big number. And were getting, I said before, exponentially better. Every day is going up substantially. We have an incredible apparatus built, now. But no, I dont want to test 350 million people. I think its ridiculous.  Yes, please. With respect to what? Look, we have strong borders. Before I came here, we werent into borders. We had a country people could come in. We had a whole different deal. Now were up to almost 164 miles. Think of that, 164 miles of wall, big beautiful wall and in those areas its very, very tough to come in. Weve been very tough on the borders. Where we have the wall built, nobodys getting through. Now, theyre going around, but thats a long trip. If theyre going around, thats the way they get through. No, Im very strong on borders and I dont want people coming in here. What I want is, if theyre going to come in, they have to come in legally. They have to come in through merit. Were not having the people that youre talking about coming to our country. Please. Well, I approved that. And I knew it was 35 million and we actually took off 10. But Im a fan of that, although I havent spent time there because Im far too busy. Id love to go there evenings, but Im too busy doing things, because thats more important for me than going there. But the Kennedy Center has suffered greatly, because nobody can go there. Its essentially closed. They do need some funding. I said, look, that was a Democrat request. That was not my request, but youve got to give them something. Its something that they wanted. It works that way. Democrats have treated us fairly. I really believe that weve had a very good back and forth. And I say that with respect to Chuck Schumer. I spoke to him a number of times, but they had requests also. So that was a request.  There were 35, as you know, and it came down to 25. We got it down to 25. We agreed. I said, Thats a lousy soundbite. Thats not a good sound bite. But thats the way life works. With that being said, the Kennedy Center, they do a beautiful job, an incredible job. David Rubenstein does a fantastic job. Hes very much involved and he puts up a lot of money and he does things that a lot of people wouldnt be able to do, or do. But theyve been essentially closed. They have tremendous deficits that are built up. This thing has been devastating to it. So I didnt have a big problem with it, but this was a request from the Democrats, because of the fact that they have a facility thats essentially closed up. Otherwise you couldnt go there if you wanted to. If I wanted to go there tonight to look at Romeo and Juliet, Id love to see Romeo and Juliet tonight. You know what would happen? They say, Sorry. 250 people or 50 people, whatever it might be down to. Go ahead. I think there is certainly a lot of talk that has been very unfair. I think that a lot of people feel that its been very unfair. Its been very, very much sided with China and a lot of people are not happy about it. At the same time, Dr. Fauci and myself and other people, there are people on there that we like and we know. A lot of, I think your friends, are on there. A lot of good people, a lot of good professionals. I dont know, itd be interesting to hear if youd like to talk about the WHO, but the fact is that, I have heard for years that that is very much biased toward China. So I dont know.  Dr., you want me to get you into this political mess? Welcome to the group. Let me just tell you, I have heard that for years. I spoke to him yesterday. Seems fine to me. I dont know. But were the ones that gave the great response and were the ones that kept China out of here. And if I didnt do it, youd have thousands and thousands of people who would have died, that are now living and happy. If I didnt do that early call on China, and nobody wanted that to happen. Everybody thought it was unnecessary to do it, and if we didnt do that, thousands and thousands of people wouldve died, more than whats happened. So thats it. Maybe one more. Steve, go ahead. No coordinated were going to have a meeting with the 20 nations total, including us. Itll be a conference call tomorrow morning sometime. I look forward to people I know, I like. I think in every instance I like every one of them, but itll be an interesting call. Youll be the first to know. Well be talking. Ill be speaking with Tony. Ill be speaking with Deborah. Ill be speaking with some of the people that they like and respect, and theyre going to bring along with them. Well be speaking to Vice President Mike Pence and Steve, and well be speaking to everybody. Im not going to do anything rash or hastily. I dont do that. But the country wants to get back to work. Our country was built to get back to work.  We dont have a country where they say, Hey, lets close it down for two years. We cant do that. Its not our country. So were going to be talking, and it could be well do sections of our country. Theres big sections of our country that are very little affected by whats taken place. Then there are other sections that are very heavily affected, so theres a big difference. But no, I would say by Easter well have a recommendation and maybe before Easter, and at the end of the 15th day or even during the 15th day, I think well have some kind of a recommendation, but our country wants to get back to  Did they? I think well have some kind of a recommendation, but our country wants to get back to work, Steve. I have had so many people and they want to practice social distancing and they want to practice no handshaking, no handshaking. Theyre not going to go walk around hugging and kissing each other in the office where they come back. Even though they may feel like it. Theyre going to do, theyre going to wash their hands more than theyve ever done. Theyre going to do all the things youre supposed to do. But Steve, you know what? Its time. They want people want to get back to work. Im having, I get it from both sides. In all fairness, and maybe its a combination of both. Tony said before, combination of both is sometimes very good, but there are areas that possibly, probably they wont qualify.  There are other areas that qualify almost now. So were going to have to see what happens, but itll be an interesting period of time. Id like to get our country back. I have tremendous numbers of people wanting to go back. You have store owners where the store is sitting there, they dont know whats happened. They got to get back. You have businesses that are going to be closed. The longer we stay out, the longer we do it. We want to go quickly. The longer we stay out, the harder it is to bring this incredible, we were having the most successful years that weve ever had in the history of our country. You saw what happened yesterday with the stocks and today theyre up. Im telling you, if Steve gets the deal done, the incredible incentive thats going to take care of people, its going to take care of our workers, going to take care of companies that employ all these workers. Small and big.  By the way, I would say we spend more time on the small companies, Steve, than we did under big companies. People ask about that. We spent more time thinking about the small businesses than the big and thats, but that really fuels our country. We want to get back and the people want to get back. We want to get our country going again and well be able to do that. So Vice-President is going to stay with you and going to take a few more questions specifically and I will see you tomorrow. Thank you very much. "
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Beautiful day. Very good, what youre doing, look at all those empty seats. Never seen it like that. Oh, boy. Oh, how the world has changed. How the world has changed, right? But its going to end up being better than ever. I want to thank you very much for being here and Id like to update you on the steps were taking on our ongoing fight to defeat the virus. This morning at 7:55 AM, I spoke to the leaders of the G20, had a great meeting and we have a lot of different ideas, a lot of good ideas, were working together. The leaders gathered virtually around the world to discuss the whole subject of the problem that right now a 151 nations have got. We had President Alberto Fernandez of Argentina, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, President Xi of China, President Emmanuel Macron of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Modi of India, President Widodo of Indonesia, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan.  Congratulations to Japan, on making a great decision on the Olympics, going to make it next year, 2021. President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador of Mexico. I want to thank the President of Mexico for having done such a great job with respect to the military. We have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our southern border and very few people are getting through, I can tell you that. We got to keep it that way. And we have a great relationship with Mexico now. President Putin of Russia, King Salman of Saudi Arabia, President Ramaphosa of South Africa, President Moon of, as you know, a country that we spend a lot of time in, South Korea. Were working very hard on that. Prime Minister Sanchez of Spain, President Erdogan of Turkey, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom, President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Council Charles Michel, United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres, World Health Organization Director Tedros Adhanom, World Bank President David Malpass, and the International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva.  So thats a big group, but its a great group, and they were all there, every one of them. And we talked about the problem and hopefully it wont be a problem for too much longer. The United States is working with our friends and partners around the world to stop the spread of the virus and coordinate our efforts. We discussed how vitally important it is for all of our nations to immediately share information and data. And weve been doing that to a large extent, but well do it even more so, and to inform our, I guess you could say inform each of us on the fight that weve got going one way or the other, its a little bit different, but were handling it a little bit in different ways. But there is great uniformity I think, we had a it was a terrific meeting, tremendous spirit among all of those countries. You had 20 countries plus the other people that I mentioned, and a tremendous spirit to get this over with.  After the meeting with the world leaders, I spoke with the governors of our 50 states and territories. Our team as a been in constant communication with the governors and we had a terrific meeting. Somebody in the fake news said that one of the governors said, Oh, we need Tom Brady. I said, Yeah, he meant that in a positive way. He said, We need Tom Brady. Were going to do great and he meant it very positively, but they took it differently. They think Tom Brady should be leading the effort. Thats only fake news, and I like Tom Brady, spoke to him the other day. Hes a great guy. But I wish the news could be real, I wish it could be honest, I wish it werent corrupt, but so much of it is. Its so sad to see. Just so sad to see. We had a great meeting. Ill tell you what, Im sure you have tapes of the meeting. Im sure that you were able to get tapes, very easily see it 50 governors plus.  And if you had tapes youd see it was really, I mean, there was no contention, I would say virtually none. I would say maybe one person that was a little tiny bit of a raising of a voice, a little wise guy a little bit, but hes usually a big wise guy, not so much anymore. We saw to it that he wouldnt be so much anymore, but he is we had a I mean I would rate, Mike was there, a lot of the folks in the back were there, and it was a great meeting. Took place at about 12 oclock. So we went from the G20 to the governors, we also spoke about the economic relief with the governors and the package that were moving through Congress to deliver much needed financial assistance to hardworking families and small businesses. I want to thank the Democrats and Republicans in the Senate for unanimously passing the largest financial relief package in American history, 96 to zero, and I have to say its the largest by far. And Im profoundly grateful that both parties came together to provide relief for American workers and families in this hour of need.  The House of Representatives must now pass this bill, hopefully without delay. I think its got tremendous support when youre at 96 to nothing. And, as you know, a couple of those people are quarantined and one, Ryan Paul, hes actually got it, but hell be better. Hes been a great guy. Hes been a great friend of mine actually. The massive $2.2 trillion relief package includes job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that keep their workers on the payroll, its pretty good. Loan forgiveness, keep the workers on the payroll, its pretty good. Direct cash payments will be available to American citizens earning less than $99,000 per year. $3,400 for the typical family of four. Expanded unemployment benefits, the average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100% of their salary for up to four full months.  These are things that, by the way, we have plenty more to go and, but there are things that nobodys ever had any package like this done, and I just want to thank them. Hopefully itll get approved equally easily in the House. Really, I think it will go through pretty well from what I hear. Virtually everybody, there could be one vote, one vote, one grand stander maybe, you might have one grand stander. And for that well have to come back and take a little more time, and itll pass, itll just take a little longer. But lets see whether or not we have a grand stander. Critical support for the hardest hit industries with a ban on corporate stock buybacks and tough new safeguards to prevent executive compensation abuse. Over $100 billion for our amazing doctors, nurses and hospitals, $45 billion for the disaster relief fund, more than doubling the amount available, this is tremendous stuff. $27 billion for the coronavirus response, including $16 billion to build up the strategic national stockpile, with critical supplies, including masks, respirators, and all sorts of pharmaceuticals.  $3.5 billion to expand assistance to childcare providers and childcare, the benefits to healthcare workers, first responders and others on the front lines of the crisis, and these are really brave, incredible people I have to say. And some of them are getting sick, and some of them are getting very sick, and some of them dont even recover. Theyre incredible people. $1 billion for Defense Production Act procurement. We are, as you know, using the act, but we use it only when necessary. We use it as leverage, we generally dont have to use it to accomplish what we want to accomplish. As of today, FEMA has shipped over 9 million n95 masks, 20 million face masks, 3.1 million face shields, nearly 6,000 ventilators, 2.6 million gowns, 14.6 million gloves, and were sending more every day and weve got tremendous amounts of equipment coming in. A lot of great companies are making equipment right now. The ventilators, obviously they take a little longer to make, but we have a lot of companies making them and were going to be in great shape.  We took over an empty shelf. We took over a very depleted place in a lot of ways. As you know, the testing is going very, very well, and that was obsolete and broken and we fixed it, and its been going really good. And I think very importantly, the stockpile, were really filling it up and we fill it up rapidly. But we get it out, sometimes we have it sent directly to the states instead. And again, the state has to be doing this kind of a thing also. Were sort of a we look from behind a little bit and we look at how are they doing and if they need help, we do it, but its their first responsibility. Sometimes they just cant get it, but we load it up and we send it out, but if we can, we have it sent directly to the state. We want it to go directly to the point where we want it.  I can now announce something that I think is incredible, what theyve done in the Navy, because the incredible Naval hospital ship, the USNS Comfort, which is incredible actually when you see it inside, will be underway to New York city on Saturday. So its going to be leaving on Saturday rather than three weeks from now. They did the maintenance quickly and it was going to be there for quite a while longer, another three or four weeks, and it should be arriving. I told the governor 20 minutes ago, Governor Cuomo, that the ship will be arriving at New York Harbor on Monday. I think Im going to go out and Ill kiss it goodbye. Ill go to, its in Virginia as you know, and I will go and well be waving together, because I suspect the media will be following. Johnny, you going to be following? Maybe, you never know, huh? Its a great chip. Its a great vessel, thats right. So if you want to go, Ill see you there, and if you dont, thats okay. After being fully loaded with medical supplies, its going to be, its loaded up to the top and its over at the Norfolk Naval Base, thats where it departs. It is expected then to, I mean were saving about three to four weeks by the incredible work done by the Navy, and I actually look forward to Saturday to see it go. The ship will arrive and I believe its going to get a little bit of a ceremony. Theres something very beautiful about it. Its an incredible piece of work. Going to be landing at Pier 90 in Manhattan to provide hospital surge capacity for the New York metropolitan area, so its a surge capacity. They may use it for this or they may have other people coming in from hospitals unrelated to the virus and then theyll use those hospitals on land, theyll use those hospital for the virus, but well see how they do it. They could do it either way, one way or the other, whichever one is best.  But it could be, because its set up so well for a regular hospital, that they may take people out of hospitals and then use those rooms for the virus. The National Institute of Health and the private sector, working closely with the FDA, continue to collaborate to discover and test treatments and therapies that can effectively reduce the duration and symptoms of the virus and help, very much help, people to recover. And Im firmly committed to bringing these treatments to market very quickly. We have a lot of tests going on with regard to different medicines, and I hope we get lucky. I hope we hit a lot of talented scientists and doctors are working on therapeutics, a cure, vaccines. I think were doing very well. Tony may speak to that a little bit later, but I think were doing very well with regard to the vaccines. I think were doing well with regard to a lot of the things I just mentioned, but well have to see what happens. Were going to know fairly soon about a lot of them.  But its very advanced and the vaccines are very advanced prior to, as you know, a fairly reasonably long test period of, in that case, over a year. Every American should be proud of the incredible spirit our country has brought to this effort. Its been incredible. Citizens from all walks of life have come together to turn the tide in this battle. Were witnessing the extraordinary of American unity like a lot of people have never seen, even getting a vote. Youre talking about trillions of dollars and you get to a vote of 96 to nothing. We are waging war on this virus using every financial, scientific, medical, pharmaceutical and military resource to halt its spread and protect our citizens. I want to express our tremendous thanks to the American people for continuing to practice social distancing like you people are practicing right here. I dont know, this room may never be the same. Maintaining good hygiene and follow government guidelines. Vice President Pence lifts up that card every time, and its not very complicated, but hopefully you can do that. And your commitment will make all the difference in the world, and thats one of the big ones will be for awhile, stay home. Just relax, stay home. Making a lot of progress as we continue to gather more information and accelerate the testing where were doing record numbers of tests now, far more than any other country has done. I told you yesterday, eight days here, because you heard so much about South Korea, the media kept of themself, South Korea, South Korea, we have a great relationship with president Moon and South Korea. But when I hear so much about South Korea, so in eight days we do more testing than they did in eight weeks, and its a very highly sophisticated test. Well be able to deploy even more data-driven and targeted approaches to slow the ultimately its a very devastating thing, but we will vanquish this virus, and a lot of progress has been made.  Thats why earlier today I sent a letter to Americas governors describing how we will be using the data to update existing guidance on social distancing, which will be developed in close coordination with our nations public health officials and scientists. Because of the sacrifices of our great doctors and nurses and healthcare professionals, the brilliance of our scientists and researchers, and the goodness and generosity of our people, I know that we will achieve victory and quickly return to the path of exceptional health, safety and prosperity for all of our citizens.  We have to get back to work. Our people want to work, they want to go back. They have to go back and were going to be talking about dates, were going to be talking with a lot of great professionals. But this is a country that was built on getting it done and our people want to go back to work. Im hearing it loud and clear from everybody, so well see what happens. Were going to have a lot more information early next week and well be reporting that back, but I just want to leave it with you, we have to go back. This is the United States of America, they dont want to sit around and wait and therell be practicing. And by the way, a lot of people-  And then wait and therell be practicing. And by the way, a lot of people misinterpret when I say go back. Theyre going to be practicing, as much as you can, social distancing and washing your hands and not shaking hands, and all of the things that we talk about so much. But they have to go back to work. Our country has to go back. Our country is based on that. And I think its going to happen pretty quickly. I think its going to happen pretty quickly. A lot of progress is made, but we got to go back to work.  We may take sections of our country, we may take large sections of our country that arent so seriously affected and we may do it that way, but weve got to start the process pretty soon. So well be talking to you a little bit more about that next week. And with that, if you have any questions you could ask. And then Im going to have vice president stay behind and hes going to take questions and also introduce some of the people. You can ask them some questions. John, please. No, not at all. Well, its a nobodys fault, certainly not in this country. Nobodys fault. We got very lucky when we made a decision not to allow people in from China at a very early date. I say that because some people dont want to accept it, but this was a great decision made by our country. Or the numbers that youre talking about, were a big country, theyd be far greater, far, far bigger.  So when I heard the number, I mean, I heard it could be six million, could be seven million. Its 3.3 or 3.2, but its a lot of jobs. But I think well come back very strong. The sooner we get back to work, every day that we stay out, it gets harder to bring it back very quickly. And our people dont want to stay out. So I know those numbers, John, but I think youll see a very fast turnaround once we have a victory over the hidden enemy, as I say, its a hidden enemy. Sometimes a hidden enemy is a lot tougher than somebody that stares you in the face, right? So well see what happens. But, I mean, theyre fully expected numbers, at least. I mean, at least. Steve, please. Well, we have very strong deployments on the Southern border, as you know, with Mexico. And we had some troops up in Canada, but Ill find out about that. I guess its equal justice to a certain extent. But in Canada, we do have troops along the border. We have a lot of things coming in from Canada. We have trade, some illegal trade that we dont like. We have very strong sanctions on some, we have very strong tariffs on dumping steel.  And we dont like steel coming through our border thats been dumped in Canada so they could avoid the tariff. I charge a lot of tariff for the steel, and its been great for our steel companies because now they can really go. You look at whats happened with steel, its been pretty incredible. But weve taken in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs on steel, and much of it comes in from China, but they can come through the Canadian border too, so were always watching for that. No, I think its a tribute to our testing. Number one, you dont know what the numbers are in China. China tells you numbers and  Im speaking to President Xi tonight. I believe that well have a good conversation, Im sure. But you just dont know. What are the numbers?  But I think its a tribute to the testing. Were testing tremendous numbers of people and every day, the way the system works, and I want to thank especially, Roche has been fantastic, a great company. Theyve done a tremendous amount  Deborah was telling me before that they were really, theyve really stepped up to the plate and done great, as have other of the companies. But it seems that theyre really doing it particularly well. So well see what happens there. But its a tribute to the amount of testing that were doing. Were doing tremendous testing. And Im sure youre not able to tell what China is testing or not testing, and I think thats a little hard. No, I didnt say that. No, youre wrong. I didnt say that. I said some people were projecting that it would be six or seven and its, I believe, 3.3. I mean, the things I just read to you are being considered and other things are being considered. People are going to be getting big checks and its not their fault. What happened to them is not their fault. So were doing a lot of different things on health insurance. We have meetings on it today. Were taking care of our people. This is not their fault what happened, and were taking care of  Were starting off by sending them very big checks. I think for a family of four, its about $3,000. And were taking care of our people, were taking care of our workers. As I say, this was not a financial crisis. This was a health crisis, a medical crisis. Were going to take care of our people. Please. Yeah. Well, I hate to  I know the business very well. I understand the restaurant business is a very delicate business. Its a business that is not easy. I always say, in a restaurant business, you can serve 30 great meals to a person or a family and they love it. One bad meal, number 31, they never come back again. Its a very tough business, but theyre great people that run restaurants.  And Ive heard 3% could be lost and you could go as high as 10 or 11%, but theyll all come back in one form or another. It might be a different restaurant, but its going to be a great business for a lot of people. And were making it easy for people to  Look, what were doing in terms of loans, what were doing in terms of salaries, theyll all come back. It may not be the same restaurant, may not be the same ownership, but theyll all be back. Yes, sir. Please. Well, I talked about the Defense Production Act a lot and Ive enacted it. I have it. I can do it with a pen. And we have actually used it on two minor occasions, and then we could withdraw it. But for the most part, the companies, we dont need it. We say we need this and they say, dont bother, were going to do it.  I mean, were dealing with Ford, General Motors, 3M. Were dealing with great companies. They want to do this, they want to do this. Theyre doing things that, frankly, they dont need somebody to walk over there with a hammer and say, do it. They are getting it done. Theyre making tremendous amounts of equipment, tremendous amounts. And when this is over, were going to be fully stockpiled, which they would have never been except for a circumstance.  This was something that nobody has ever thought could happen to this country. Im not even blaming  Look, we inherited a broken situation, but I dont totally blame the people that were before me and this administration. Nobody wouldve ever thought a thing like this could have happened. But the production act, Defense Production Act is a wonderful thing, but I just havent had to use it. They know its activated. They know I can use it. Maybe that frightens them a little bit. Its got tremendous power, but I havent had to. Please. Where are they? They were all outside trying to get in. I know. So Im a big fan of Senator Holley and I also like the idea. There were some senators that didnt want to do anything like Carnival, great company, but theyre based in different places. I wont tell you why. I could tell you exactly where theyre based, but I wont do that. But theyre based in actually more than one places, as ships are registered in different locations.  I do like the concept of perhaps coming in and registering here, coming into the United States. Its very tough to make a loan to a company when theyre based in a different country, but with that being said, they have thousands and thousands of people that work there, and maybe almost as importantly, that work on shore filling these ships with goods and products. And the cruise line business is very important. And I know Carnival, what a great job they do, Micky Arison. And I would think that we could stick with Senator Holley and maybe really look at that very seriously.  Look, its a big business, its a great business. Its a business that employs tremendous number of people outside of the ship itself. I mean, you look at these ports, its loaded up with shops and people that are involved with the ship. So were going to work very hard on the cruise line business and were going to try and work something out, but I like the concept. Yeah, go ahead. So the airline business is a very tough business, over many years. Its been very, very tough. Its got everything. Its got labor, its got very strong, powerful  You look at the cost of these airliners. Everything is tough. Very highly technological, you look at how complicated, how complex. Its got unions, its got everything. The airline business, generally speaking, its a very tough business, always been a very tough business.  With that being said, we have to keep our airlines going. And were going to be using some  Now maybe well take a piece of the airlines for the country, for our country, where we loan money and we take a piece. Its all fully ready, were ready to go. But if we didnt do that, wed end up with no airlines and we cant do that. The airline business is very vital to our country. Its a tough business. We have to understand that. I mean, I could tell you other businesses that are different kinds of business, they are very good businesses, but airlines have always been very, very tough. Please. No, please. Yeah, I didnt call you, I called this gentleman. Who are you with? Who are you with? Yeah, Bloomberg. Hows Michael? Doing good? No, I didnt. Im speaking to him tonight. Its scheduled to go tonight. Ill have a call with President Xi of China. A very good relationship. No, I didnt like when they came up, and it wasnt him. Somebody at a lower level, mid level, we found out pretty much. But they made a statement that our soldiers brought it into China. No, it came from China.  And we just signed a very big deal with China. Theyre paying us a lot of money in tariffs and other things. They never paid us 25 cents. Look, China has taken advantage of the United States, until I came here, with sleepy Joe Biden and Obama and Bush and everybody else. Im not blaming them, Im blaming everybody. They were allowed to, $500 billion a year they were taking out. We had trade deficits that were so large, nobodys ever seen anything like it, and weve changed it.  Look, now were taking in billions of dollars and we gave some to our farmers, because China, they targeted our farmers. And our farmers are very happy and our farmers got through a very rough period because of what I was able to do. Took the money from China and gave it to the farmers and we had plenty of leftover after that. Now were going into a phase two negotiation with China, but were getting 25% on $250 billion, and then were getting a lot on money after that.  So weve never had to deal with China. China took advantage of the United States. And you know what? I dont blame China for that. I blame the people that were right here, because they should have never allowed it to happen. But the relationship with China has been a very good one. John? He never asked me to calm it down, no. Somebody mightve spoken to somebody, but nobody spoke to me about it. I think it was time though, because I talk about the Chinese virus, and I mean it. Thats where it came from. If you look at Ebola, if you look at all  lyme, right? Lyme, Connecticut. You look at all these different horrible diseases, they seem to come with the name, with the location. And this was the Chinese virus. But I dont have to say it if they feel so strongly about it. Well see.  But we just made a great deal with China. Great, hopefully, for both parties. But weve made a deal with China and were going to do another one it looks like. They want to do it very badly. Maybe theyll want to wait, like Iran. They want to wait to see whether or not Trump gets beaten in the election, because would they love to negotiate with Biden or somebody else other than me. They would love it. Thats their best dream in the world. So many others. So there are some that maybe are waiting until after November 3rd, the election day.  But I think were doing very well. It would be sad if we blew all of the advantages that we have right now, because weve made unbelievable trade deals. Whether its Mexico, Canada, Japan, South Korea, China, and others, we have changed the whole thing around. Please. I think Deborah will talk to you about that, and Tony in a few minutes. But I think well start talking about that, because we have to open up. We cant say, lets close. People dont want to close, John. I say it again and again. The reason I do, because I want you to report it eventually. Go ahead, Steve. Go ahead, Steve. Yeah, its his call. I mean, Ill talk to him, whatever he wants to  Well have, I think, a very fruitful call, have a good call tonight at nine oclock. Please. Well be talking about that. Yeah, well be talking about the virus. In the back first, please. Yeah, record. No, not yet. It hasnt passed, but its come a long way. I think they think were doing a really good job in terms of running this whole situation having to do with the virus. I think they feel the administration, myself and the administration, are doing a good job of keeping very important people informed. Because it was a great fear and a lot of good things are happening.  The mortality rate is at a, in my opinion, youll have to speak to Deborah, Tony, all of the others, but in my opinion, its way, way down and that takes a lot of fear out. Its one thing to have it, its another thing to die. When I first got involved, I was being told numbers that were much, much higher than the number that seems to be. And remember that people that have it  many people have it. I just spoke to two people, they had it. They never went to a doctor. They had it, absolutely had it, but they never went to a doctor. They never went to any of that. They didnt report it. You have thousands and hundreds of thousands of cases like that, so you have to add that to the-   hundreds of thousands of cases like that, so you have to add that to the case load also. And the people that actually die, that percentage is a much lower percentage than I ever thought. Thats one of the reasons I say, look, were going to beat this and were going to get back to work. Yes, please. Sounds appropriate. Well, no. No, we dont look at a weak point. This is a serious problem for over 150 nations, the virus. I would say this. Maduro and Venezuela, were watching it very closely. Well see what happens. But that is correct. Those charges were made. Please. We will give you that notification. Well let you know. I want those guidelines to go even when were open and fully operational, and frankly, much of the guidelines like shaking hands, maybe people arent going to be shaking hands anymore. Tony had mentioned to me, Tony Fauci, the other day that I dont think he would be too upset with the concept of not shaking hands. He was saying that the flu would cut down, the regular flu would be cut down by quite a bit if we didnt do that, if we didnt shake hands. Even the regular flu, of which we have a lot of deaths and a lot of problems with that too. So I think a lot of great things are going to When were open, as soon as we open, that doesnt mean youre going to stop with the guidelines. Youll still try and distance yourself, maybe not to the same extent because you have to lead a life. But I think the time is coming. How about one more question? Go ahead, in the back. Yes, I do. Very important to me. Very important to me. We have to protect our Asian Americans. Its very important, that was a very important tweet to me because I didnt like things that I was hearing. Please go ahead. Well I dont know. All I know is this. Asian Americans in our country are doing fantastically well. Im very close to them as you know, and theyre doing fantastically well. And I think they appreciate the job were doing, but I did want to put that statement out, the social media statement, because to me Asian Americans are a great part of our country. Thank you all very much. Well see you soon. Thank you."
"Thank you very much. Great to have you, and thank you all for being here. My administration is taking new action to ensure that America has the medical resources and equipment needed to fight the global pandemic. Its been a brutal pandemic for over 150 countries all over the world. Weve had great success over the last month. Weve, as you know, the millions and millions of pieces of equipment have been delivered successfully by us, purchased and delivered, and weve made it available to the states and the governors have been very gracious, for the most part, I would say. A couple that arent appreciative of the incredible job, they have to do a better job themselves. Thats part of the problem. But generally speaking, I have to tell you the governors have been great. I just spoke to the governor of New Jersey, Governor Murphy, and hes very thankful and Governor Cuomo has been very nice.  Theyve really appreciated, I think, what the federal government has done, you look at the hospitals that are being built all over the country by the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. Its been really incredible. Nobody has seen it. Theyll build hospitals in two or three days, portable hospitals. This afternoon I invoked the Defense Production Act to compel General Motors to accept, perform, prioritize federal contracts for ventilators. Ventilators are a big deal and weve delivered thousands of them, and oftentimes you dont need ventilators very much, hospitals dont have very many, and now were turning out that we have to produce large numbers, but weve been able to do that and were going to be doing a lot more. This invocation of the DPA should demonstrate clearly to all that we will not hesitate to use the full authority of the federal government to combat this crisis. We thought that we had a deal with, as an example, General Motors and I guess they thought otherwise they didnt agree and now they do.  They do agree and I think we might be able to pull it, but we let them know the way we felt and they cant be doing that. Well work in partnership with the private sector, but where an emergency exists and its very important that we get to the bottom line and quickly we will do what we have to do and immediately exercise all available awful authorities to get the job done. This afternoon I also signed an executive order investing, and very, very strongly investing the Department of Health and Human Services, and the department of Homeland Security with the full authorities available under the Defense Production Act to respond to the outbreak of the terrible virus, the invisible enemy, as we say. My order also establishes that Peter Navarro, a very trusted person from the White House and hes been an incredible  Hes done an incredible job for me in terms of negotiation, in terms of understanding where the world is going economically, but my order establishes that Peter will serve as national Defense Production Act policy coordinator for the federal government.  Thats a very important position, more important probably than its almost ever been in our country, and so I want to congratulate Peter and his family. Its a  I know hes going to do a fantastic job. Hes been doing that job over the last few weeks. Peter is a PhD in economics from Harvard, has a master in public administration from the Kennedy School, also from Harvard, and hes a tremendous guy and he will do a fantastic job. But Id like to maybe ask before I continue Peter to say a few words, please. Thank you, Peter. Good luck. My administration is marshaling the full power of the American government and we will do that and thats what weve done and we will continue to do it until our war is won. Economic, scientific, medical, military and Homeland Security. All of this to vanquish the virus. We are working to sign contracts immediately with the major ventilator companies in the country, including GE, Phillips, Medtronic, Hamilton, Zol, Resmed, Hillrob and Viar. These are all companies that do this, great companies, the FDA will be reducing and waving unnecessary regulations in order to get this done, were going to be getting rid of certain, lets say, barriers to speed. We want them to get it done quickly. Theyve been doing it for a long time. Theyve been making ventilators for a long time. Hopefully General Motors will join in the fray, under the normal condition that you would be.  Regular times, 29,000 ventilators are distributed in the United States each year. In the next 100 days  Well, first of all weve already delivered thousands of them, but within the next 100 days we will either make or get in some form over 100,000 additional units. And I guess to put it in other words, in the next 100 days well receive over three times the number of ventilators made during a regular year in the United States. And that doesnt include all of the thousands and thousands that weve given to the various states, a lot of them.  We delivered thousands, as you know, to New York and they didnt know they got them. And then we also had thousands put in a warehouse and that was also for New York and they just found out that they were there. So we have to make sure that when we deliver things, they get distributed. Earlier today I spoke to the CEO of Boeing, Dave Calhoun, and Boeing will be producing and donating face shields to help our medical professionals on the front lines. These are actually pretty intricate in terms of the plastic and the quality of the materials. Theyre important. Theyve got to be top of the line and theyll go into do thousands of these a week. Theyve already tested the production and theyre ready to begin producing all of these shields. Its the plastic shields that go over the face. Boeing is also offering us the use of their, what they call the dream lifter cargo plane.  Its the largest plane in the world and this is sort of a picture of it. They called up just a little while ago and that can sort of take anything, thats the biggest in the world and theyre letting us use that for the distribution of product all over the country, especially the heavy product or large quantities of product, and Boeing will dedicate up to three planes to the mission of flying medical supplies anywhere we needed. Each plane can carry 63, 000 pounds of cargo per flight. Thats a lot of cargo.  I also signed an executive order giving the Department of defense and Department of Homeland Security the authority to activate the ready reserve components of the armed forces. This will allow us to mobilize medical disaster and emergency response personnel to help wage our battle against the virus by activating thousands of experienced service members, including retirees. We have a lot of people, retirees, great, great military people, theyre coming back in who have offered to support the nation in this extraordinary time of need. And they come back in. They dont say, How much? They dont say, What are we getting paid? They just want to come back in. Its really an incredible thing to see. Its beautiful.  This afternoon I also signed into law 2.2 trillion dollars in urgently needed relief for our nations families, workers, businesses, and Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed. And the 2.2 trillion goes to 6.2 trillion depending on need. So its the largest bill ever signed and not just emergency relief, but of any kind. Weve never signed a bill of that magnitude, and incredibly it was 96 to nothing in the Senate and it was essentially the same thing in congress, they did it very quickly in the house. They did it very, very quickly.  So if you look at Congress, what theyve been able to do, the house was a voice vote, I guess they would call it, and something like that rarely takes place, and 96 to nothing in the Senate for the largest bill in the history of our country. Thats pretty good. And I want to thank Republicans, I want to thank Democrats for coming together for the whole of the nation and this is a great thing, a great victory. This is going to save companies that are incredible companies, but that are going to need some help because of what happened. A month ago, they were outstanding. They were having the best year they ever had and then we got hit and so well help them out. Its thousands and millions of jobs, millions of jobs. And I just want to thank everybody for working so hard. And that includes the people standing with me right here.  The legislation extends a vital lifeline to American families and American workers with job retention loans for small businesses, and a big focus of the bill is small businesses. Theyre really  Theyre the energy, theyre whatever you want to call it in terms of our nation that push  People have no idea how big a factor Peter can tell you, the small businesses are in this country from an economic standpoint, from a job standpoint. We expand the unemployment benefits for workers very substantially and direct cash payments will be going to American citizens. Substantial. This legislation also provides a massive increase in funding for hospitals for the disaster relief fund, and critical supplies including masks, respirators, and pharmaceuticals of all types. And speaking of pharmaceuticals, as you know, were working on vaccines. Were getting some good response and were working on therapeutics and cures and we have some very interesting things happening. This afternoon, Apple launched a new tool created in partnership with our task force, the CDC and FEMA. Any individual who is concerned that they might have the virus can now download the free C-O-V-I-D dash 19 app on their iPhone and answer a set of simple questions about their symptoms and risk factors. Its getting to be a very modernized system indeed. Theyll soon receive HHS recommendations on what to do next, including whether they should get tested or not. And again, we only want people to get tested if they  If we think they need it. In a few moments. Secretary Devoss and Secretary Perdue will discuss new partnerships with the private sector that are providing meals to millions of students while schools are closed. Theyve both been incredible, the job theyve done. I appreciate them very much. Were grateful for the assistance of Niren Chadhaury, CEO of Panera Bread Company, theyve been so incredible to us and to the people of our country. And Denton McClain, chairman of McClain Global Logistics, and theyve joined us. Theyre on stage with me. Theyre going to speak.  Throughout this ordeal, Ive been ordered and inspired by the American people more than anything else, more than anyone else. Americans of every walk of life have followed the guidelines shown incredible compassion and sacrifice greatly on behalf of their fellow citizens. I want every American to know that their selfless and heroic actions are saving lives and I want them to know, and Ive said it before, that Im very proud to be their president, Im very proud of the American people. My administration is actively planning the next phase in an all out war against this horrible virus. Were now testing nearly 100,000 patients per day, more than anybody in the world and we have now, as of even a couple of weeks ago, tested more than any other country in the world, and our capacity continues to grow.  Widespread surveillance testing will allow us to monitor the spread of the virus and were doing that quite accurately, and Deborah and Tony will be speaking about that and coordinate with the States to contain new hotspots as they arise with a targeted, fact-based and data-based approach. Its all data driven. This surveillance testing will soon enable us to publish updated guidelines for state and local leaders. We want every county and region in the country to have the on-the-ground evidence that they need to determine the mitigation measures that are right for them. Each location is different. Some are very, very different. Some are day and night, some are in great shape and some arent in great shape, and well be able to have very accurate information very shortly. We already have a lot of that information. Americas bravely battling this pandemic through cutting edge science and medical innovation and rational, deliberate and determined vigilance.  No effort will be spared in winning this war. Were going to win the war. Hopefully were going to win soon and with as few lives as possible lost. You see whats going on all over the world, you see the lives, you see Italy, you see Spain, you see all of these countries going through so much, going through such hell and were all in very strong communication. I can tell you our professionals are dealing with them every day. Many of the countries, so many countries, but many of the countries were dealing very directly and closely, and were going to be in very good shape in terms of certain equipment thats very hard to get, very hard to manufacture, and at the right time will be distributing that equipment throughout the world to other countries.  Boris Johnson was asking for ventilators today, as you know, Boris is  Hes tested  Unfortunately hes tested positive and its a terrible thing, but hes going to be great. Im sure hes going to be totally great, but they want ventilators, Italy wants ventilators, Spain wants ventilators, Germany wants ventilators, theyre all calling for ventilators. Well, were going to make a lot of ventilators and well take care of our needs, but were also going to help other countries.  So I just want to thank everybody. I want to thank our great American citizens and a lot of incredible things are happening, really happening, and its too bad  I was saying before we had the press conference when we signed, we had a signing ceremony where we signed the largest bill in our history. And I said, Think of it, 22 days ago, we had the greatest economy in the world. Everything was going beautifully. The stock market hit an all time high again for the over 150th time during my presidency, and the world was looking good. And then we got hit by the invisible enemy. And now you have countries all over the world reeling. But were winning it and well be a bigger and better and stronger than where we were even before. And we will also have apparatus in place that works. We wont have broken systems, well have incredible systems. So if this should happen again, hopefully it wont. But if a thing like this should happen again, well be able to handle it very much more easily. So with that Ill take a few questions . Well, it got to be a debate about cost, and we dont want to think too much about cost when were talking about this. This is not cost. I wasnt happy where general motors built plants and other locations over the years, not so much during my term, but they built a lot of plants in other countries. I wont name the countries, but you can imagine. And so I didnt go into it with a very favorable view. I was extremely unhappy with Lordstown, Ohio, where they left Lordstown, Ohio in the middle of an auto boom because we had 17 car companies coming in and then they were leaving one plant in Ohio. I love Ohio.  And what happens? That became the story. Not that all these plants are moving in, but that you had a one plant, they were leaving. And frankly I think that would be a good place to build the ventilators. But well see. Well see how that all works out. But so I wasnt too thrilled. And then we thought we had a deal for 40,000 ventilators and all of a sudden it became six and then price became a big object. But Peter Navarros going to handle that and Peter will do a very good job. Well see, maybe theyll change their tune, but we didnt want to play games with them. The quarantine orders. I think Im going to let Tony speak to that a little bit later. But were being very strong on quarantine. Were being very strong on people not leaving, especially certain states and going to other states where they have less of a problem. I mean, youre hearing constantly about people leaving New York and going down to Florida, and New York obviously is a hot spot and thats why were building all those hospitals in New York and all those medical centers in New York. So well let Tony answer to that, but specifically you have to understand, were not playing games. John? It wasnt after, it was before and we just were not getting there with General Motors. We werent getting there. Were getting there with a lot of other companies and we have the people that are doing it for me in the room right here and we can talk to you later about it, but we have to get these people on board. Were not looking to get into a big deal on price. Were not looking to be ripped off on price. We dont want prices to be double, triple what they should be. So General Motors, well see what happens. But now theyre talking, but they werent talking the right way at the beginning and that was not right to the country. I think theres a very good chance we wont need that many. And I think frankly theres a great chance that were not going to need that money. But you know what, there are a lot of other people that are going to need them. We have countries all over the world that are friends of ours and we will help those countries. Were in a position to do things that other countries cant. So we have a sort of an interesting position we can make them, because were going to be making over 100,000 pretty quickly. So we can make them. And if we dont need them, John, thats okay because we can help Italy and we can help UK, Boris Johnson specifically. I mean when I say, How you feeling? And the first thing Boris said to me is, We need ventilators. Were not going to be keeping them. All over the world, they want them, and were in a position to make them and other countries arent. Okay? Well, if you look, and I think you can ask that question best of Deborah, but I think their estimates are high. I hope theyre high. They could be extremely high. Were doing even hospitals based on pretty high estimates, Im doing them anyway and as I told John, If we do not need them, thatll be wonderful. We can help a lot of great people all over the world. We can help them live. But I think his estimates are going to be very high. Were going to see. Dont forget, we sent thousands of ventilators to New York and they didnt know they got them. Then we sent thousands of ventilators to New York, they have a warehouse a New York, warehouse in Edison, New Jersey, which is an interesting thing. And we sent them to Edison, New Jersey. They were in the warehouse, ready to go, and New York never took them.  So they knew they were there. So we have to get people lined up, but weve given the  And Im not blaming New York. Look, this is something thats of a magnitude that nobodys ever seen before. But Ill tell you what, the federal governments done a hell of a job. So we sent thousands of ventilators to New York and they didnt know about it at the time they were complaining. Thousands. We had 2,000 and then 2,000 and then 4,000, and they were going there in large numbers. And then before that we sent many thousands. We want to have so many-  And then before that we said many thousands. We want to have so many that we do have more than we need, because we can send them to other great countries, other countries that have been our friends and theyll never be able to do it themselves. Yeah, please? Well, I think weve done a great job for the State of Washington and I think the governor, who is a failed presidential candidate as you know, he leveled out at zero in the polls, hes constantly chirping, and I guess complaining would be a nice way of saying it. Were building hospitals. Weve done a great job for the State of Washington. Michigan, she has no idea whats going on. And all she does is say, Oh, its the federal governments fault. And weve taken such great care of Michigan. You know the care weve taken of New Jersey.  I think if you ask Governor Murphy of New Jersey, How are we doing? I think hed say great. I think. Hes a Democrat. Governor Cuomo has really said were really doing a great job, and I saw the news conference where he was thanking the people from FEMA, the people from Army Corps of Engineers this morning. I mean, they built a hospital like in three and a half days, and its a big hospital in the Javits Center. And theyre building medical facilities in different parts of New York, and Governor Cuomo has been appreciative. But a couple of people arent. We have done a hell of a job. The federal government has really stepped up. All I want them to do, very simple, I want them to be appreciative. I dont want them to say things that arent true. I want them to be appreciative. Weve done a great job, and Im not talking about me. Im talking about Mike Pence, the Task Force, Im talking about FEMA, the Army Corps of Engineers. Theres no country in the world could have done what the Army Corps of Engineers has done and is doing. Now theyre going in and building literal Theyre going into hotels and renovating hotels. That should be for governors to do. That should be for states to do.  We have the Army Corps of Engineers so teed up and so stocked up and theyre really psyched and theyre incredible, and theres no games with these people. Theyre in there screaming, Get it done, get it done. Theres not sitting around taking it easy. These are workers. These are incredible people. So I think the Army Corps of Engineers When somebody for political reasons wants to blame, I view that as blaming these incredible people. Nobodys ever seen it. I dont know if youve been to the Javits Center. Now, Ive seen it. I would love to go there, but with all that were doing, we will be tomorrow at the hospital. We have this incredible hospital boat. It was supposed to be ready in three and a half weeks, because its under maintenance, a big maintenance contract. We were able to get it done quickly. We were able to stock it up to the top and its leaving tomorrow at 2:00. Its leaving Virginia. Itll be in New York on Monday, weeks ahead of schedule. I think things, even the media, I think the media and governors should appreciate it.  And I have to say, the media has been pretty good and the governors have been really good, except for a couple. And with them, its just political. Hows Trump doing? Oh, well, I dont know. Because we have done a job the likes of which nobodys seen. I think they should be appreciative. Because you know what? When theyre not appreciative to me, theyre not appreciative to the Army Corps, theyre not appreciative to FEMA, its not right. These people are incredible. Theyre working 24 hours a day. I mean, Mike Pence, I dont think he sleeps anymore. These are people that should be appreciated. He calls all the governors. I tell him I mean, Im a different type of person. I say, Mike, dont call the Governor of Washington. Youre wasting your time with him. Dont call the woman in Michigan. It doesnt make any difference what happens- You know what I say? If they dont treat you right, I dont call. Hes a different type of person. Hell call quietly anyway, okay? But hes done a great job. He should be appreciated for the job hes done. Yes, maam? No, but I have spirit for the country. I mean, we have sailors, we have doctors on that ship. We have everything. I mean, Im not going to be a jumping around in a huddle, but yeah, I think its a great sign, the President of the United States. They got a ship out of maintenance, completed all the work in a fraction of the time. It was supposed to be there for three and a half additional weeks and they got it done, and its in great shape and theyre sending it up.  So the answer Its a good question. Its a fair question. I just feel that as the leader of our country, when they can do work like theyve done, and theyve been working all day, all night, medical supplies, everything loading up that ship, I dont think its the worst thing in the world. Its right down the road practically, right? Virginia. And I think its great if I go to Virginia. I guess I can take helicopter or plane. Its a tiny trip. And I think its a good thing when I go over there and I say thank you. It doesnt mean Im going to be hugging people and it doesnt mean that Im going to be shaking peoples hands and everything, but I think it sends a signal when the president is able to go there and say thank you. So, well be careful. Peter? Yeah, I did. We did fill it twice. We filled it twice and weve been distributing that for literally a year. Weve been filling it . Thats a nice question, Peter. Thank you very much. Weve been filling it out and weve been filling that stockpile many, many times. Its been filled many, many times. And now what were doing is something different, because I think its better. Wed fill it so it comes from wherever the point of manufacturer or whatever is, we fill it and then we go, Now its full. Now we take it and we distribute around. Now what were doing is, we have an emergency. Were saying, Go direct, go direct, go direct. We fill it only where necessary, but now were trying to go direct.  So they drop it off in New York or they drop it off in Michigan. They drop it off in Virginia, wherever it may be, Florida. Florida is getting a lot of things. And were finding its a much better system, but weve filled and weve stockpiled many, many times. Yeah, we ended up with an empty shelf. Yes, please? So, I had a great conversation with the President of China last night, pretty late in the night. It was fascinating to me. They have a whole Its a different kind of a world. Its a different form of government, to put it mildly. We talked for a long time. We talked for at least an hour, I guess. And one of the things I was asking him is, When did you notice that this was happening? We talked about the whole concept, how it happened, when it happened, what was the most effective use? I mean, was it the fact that distance Was distance the best thing? We talked about everything.  And hes gotten and developed Because theyre ahead of us from the standpoint of time. It happened there actually long before it happened here. By the way, it would have happened here a lot sooner had we not kept those people out, the Chinese people coming over to the country, had we not kept them out. But we talked about it, because hes had additional experience of having been much earlier. And hes developed some incredible theories and all of that information is coming over here. A lot of its already come. The data, we call it data, and were going to learn a lot from what the Chinese went through.  Our relationship with China is very good. We also talked about the trade agreement, but I must tell you, this whole invisible enemy has taken over the world. Nobody cares about trade, nobody cares about anything. You want to talk about trade, they immediately get back to this. So we really did, we talked about trade. Theyre starting to buy very heavily from the farmers under the agreement, under the trade deal that we just signed. But honestly, he, me, all of us, everybodys talking. You turn on television, you read the papers, its all about this.  And you know what? It probably should be mostly about this. Its hard to talk about, Hey, how you doing with buying from the farmers? They have started very, very large buying, as you probably have read. But what we really focused on was this- I also said, How have you done with cures? And how have you done with respect to vaccines? We discussed that. And theyre doing like were doing. Theyre working on it very hard. They think they have some interesting things have been determined, and well see what happens. But we talked a lot about vaccine. We talked a lot about possible cures. How good would that be? I mean, thats a game changer. So, well see.  And by the way, we have various things happening right now having to do with cures and vaccines. And I think were doing very well, especially in the vaccine thing. I think were very close. But as Tony will tell you, thats a long testing process. So, well see what happens. He never asked me to suspend tariffs, no. Were taking in billions of dollars. He never did ask me that. John? So John, Ill be sitting down with this brilliant woman and this brilliant man, and lots of brilliant people that work with them, I think. Right, Deborah and Tony? And well be sitting down on Monday or maybe Tuesday, depending on which is the best for everybody, and well be making that determination. Okay? Well be making it. And by the way, obviously were not doing it for New York. You see New York is just coming into this really heated situation. Were building a lot of things in New York right now that nobody thought would ever be building. A lot of things are happening in New York, so obviously But we are talking about possibly other parts of the country which really arent affected to any major degree. Or maybe we wont do that, because maybe at the advice of a lot of very talented people that do this for a living, they wont want to do that. They wont want to expose anything. They want to do it all at one time. These are the kinds of things well be talking about. Well, it depends. We do want to flatten the curve. We want to see that curve start heading down in the other direction at a minimum. And we really have to talk about areas of the country that have not been affected or certainly have had a very small affect. And well see. I certainly want to get it open as soon as possible. I dont want it to be long, but we also want it to open safe. Otherwise, what did we do? I hope not. I hope its going to be sooner. I hope it disappears faster than that. I really think that the people of our country have done a great job. Last night, I was watching and Im looking down Madison Avenue and Fifth Avenue, John, there were no people in the street. I mean, normally you wouldnt be able to see the sidewalk. Thered be cars all over, itd be like rush hour stuff. Im looking at it and Im saying, I cant believe it. There are no cars, there are no people. There wasnt one person on Fifth Avenue walking down the street. Ive never seen that before. I guess maybe at 1:00 in the morning, 4:00 in the morning maybe. But Ive never seen that before. The people have been incredible.  When you talk about distancing, social distancing, I mean, we dont have a law. Were not going to put them in jail. And yet, theyre really I think theres two things. Number one, they are afraid. And number two, they really are wanting to win this thing. Yes, please? Sure. Sure. Thats a good question. We have brilliant people. We have a tremendous amount of money, and we have brilliant people that Im taking from Wall Street with secretary Mnuchin, whos done an incredible job, but brilliant guy, Im taking from Wall Street people that Ive known, that you all know, the top people in the world. They dont want money. I mean, will they get something? I guess maybe theyll get, who knows? Peanuts what they want compared to what they would normally get. Im taking the smartest, the most brilliant people in the world in finance and theyre going to be dealing.  Im not going to hire somebody thats never done it, thats a political person or anything else. Were getting the most brilliant financial minds in the world. I know all of them, you know all of them. I mean, you read about all of them. I guess some you dont read about, and theyre probably the smartest of them all. But the fact is, were taking these brilliant people and theyll be dealing with United and they want to help.  Look, Ill tell you right now, the airline business has always been a tough business. Its always been a very tough business, tough to make money with. Every barrier you can have, that business has. But for our country, its very important. We have to take care of our country. We need the airlines to stay. Its also big for jobs. So, we will be able to handle United and well be able to handle Delta and well be able to handle all of it. We have plenty of money.  Now, will we end up owning large chunks, depending on what these great geniuses decide along with the executives of the different companies? Its possible, and theyll make a better deal on the loan, but the taxpayer will then end up owning a big chunk of companies. As an example, Boeing. Boeing until a year ago was the greatest company, I think in the world by far. To me, there wasnt anything close. I believe it was 1% of GDP. Okay? Think of that. One company, 1% of GDP. It was flawless. Then it had the problems and then it had on top of it, this whole thing with the virus. So Boeing will probably need a hand, and were going to bring Boeing back to health.  But we have the smartest people in the world. I dont even know if you know that. I think this could be the first time youve heard it. People like Larry Fink were talking to, thats BlackRock, and we have the smartest people and they all want to do it. I mean, this to them, they will They love this country. They all want to do it. So, were speaking to people like that and theyll be able to work it out. No, I think theyre the same thing. I mean, bringing people back to health and protecting peoples jobs. To me, and Im okay at this stuff, thats the same thing. Im in a much different position as president than if I were an investor or something, but I want to bring them back to health, because I want to preserve their jobs. But I also want to preserve airlines, because thats preserving lots of other jobs. Thats preserving the travel and leisure industry, which is perhaps the largest industry in our country if you add it all up. You add up all the hotels and all the traveling and all the planes and everything else, probably by far the largest industry in our country.  So saving the airlines is very important. And the airlines were all doing well. The airlines were doing record business a month before this today, lets say. Even 22 days to be exact, right? When we first started seeing some real signs of problems, they were at record levels. Last year they had a record year. The biggest in the history of the airlines. Everybody was doing well. I mean, I was presiding over the most successful economy in the history of the world. And now were going to have to rebuild it, and I think were going to have an absolute incredible fourth quarter. And maybe its slightly after that to be honest, but its going to be in that time period. As soon as we get rid of this, I think were going to have an explosion upward. Its going to be incredible. Please? Thats true. I do, because hes a very talented guy. Hes a very good governor. Everyone loves him. Hes doing a fantastic job for Florida. He was not happy with the people coming down from New York. Theyre flying down from New York, and he had a state and has a state, with obviously a lot less problems. Florida has been doing really well in the sense of testing. The testing has shown much better results. Maybe theyll talk to you about that later.  But no, he was very unhappy with the people coming down from New York, and I understand that. No, Rons a very tough guy. Hes a great governor and I have tremendous confidence in him. And he had the beach situation. He resolved that. He will get it all resolved. Yeah, please? You have to go louder. Youre going to have to speak louder. We have some very, very strong restrictions. But youre right, I dont like it. So, were seeing how it works. The data is coming in on Monday and Tuesday, and were going to see how it looks. But can we go to a tougher level? We can, but that causes other problems. Were going to see, and well be reporting back very shortly after my meetings with Tony, Deborah, and others that were going to be meeting with, and our vice president. And were going to be reporting back to the media. Okay? Please, corner? Yes. I would say that you are a citizen of the greatest country anywhere in the world. And we were attacked like nothing thats happened possibly since 1917, many, many years ago. We were attacked, and were winning the battle and were going to win, and its not going to take hopefully that much longer, but we have to win the war. And I would say that they have a duty to sit back, watch, behave, wash their hands, stay in the apartment with mom and dad. They look like theyre lucky to have you as a father. And just learn from it.  But the young people have been tremendous. Some of them are very happy not to go to school. You understand that. Perhaps yours, perhaps not. We have literally had no problem. But again, they should just sit back and be very proud of our country, because were doing it for them. Ultimately, were doing it for them more than anything else if you think about it.  The other thing thats nice and the one thing that has come out, and I learned this, again it was reaffirmed by president Xi last night in my conversation, the young people are really, this is an incredible phenomenon, but they are attacked, successfully attacked to a much lesser extent by this pandemic, by this disease, this whatever they want to call it. You can call it a germ, you can call it a flu, you can call it a virus, you can call it many different names. Im not sure anybody even knows what it is, but the children do very well. Its almost the younger they are, the better they do. I guess the immune system is Sadly, for some of us, their immune system is stronger. But actually, Im very happy about that.  But they have been attacked. For instance, the Spanish flu, and if you look at the H1N1, if you take a look at the swine flu, which was as you know not so long ago, that attacked very young children, kids, middle age people, everyone. Age is a factor here, so your children should be in good shape, but just tell them to be very proud of the country. Okay? Well, were going to make that determination. And youre going to have something to do with that. I mean, look, were going to be guided also. You have some real strong feelings, the media. Ill tell you what, the media generally I mean, Im impressed. A lot of the media has been fair. Im not used to fair treatment in the media. I dont know how to handle it, but overall I think the media has been pretty fair. Some not. I mean, I could tell you who, but whats the point? But the media has really been fair. I mean, they view this as were all in a problem together and were going to win. Were going to win. Please? Well, thats not happening. I mean, I think they wrote us out and thats all right. But thats not happening. As far as the Mayor of New York, Ill be honest, I didnt know him well. He and I are obviously opposite persuasion and we would go at it, but we didnt I dont know if we ever spoke to other than to maybe say hello a couple of times. I did down at the World Trade Center Memorial once a long time ago.  So, Ive spoken to him a lot, Mayor de Blasio, and weve really had incredibly productive discussions. Ive gotten him a lot of people. Weve gotten him a medical center hes asked for at Elmhurst. I know Elmhurst Hospital very well. I mean, that was an area of Queens that I grew up in. And boy, you talk about an epicenter. Thats really the epicenter of the epicenter. Thats really something. We talked about it, because that was very close to where I grew up. And knowing it, being so familiar with it, its incredible to see where they have the trucks. I dont have to go into great detail. The refrigerated trucks coming up, and Ive never seen anything like it.  Ive spoken with Mayor de Blasio a lot in the last week. Weve helped him, I think a lot, and Ive really gotten to like him. I get along with him very well. Now, he wants us to do certain things and weve produced. I mean, today I spoke to him with the Secretary of Defense Esper, and we had a great conversation and were helping him get some of the things he needs. I dont have to go into great detail, but hes very happy about what were able to do for him today. And hes like us. Hes working very hard. But I cant say anything bad about Mayor de Blasio. I mean, my relationship with him over the last couple of weeks has been excellent and weve done a good job for him too. Yeah, please? So, were doing that. Great question. Were increasing capacities- Right. Were actually adding on through the Army Corps of Engineers. This is a big job and were doing it in many states, not just New York and California. By the way, Gavin Newsoms been terrific. I have to tell you, the Governor of California, were getting along really well. Were working hard for him. As you know, the other hospital ship, and they are incredible. That just arrived in Los Angeles, fully stocked. But Gavin Newsom has been-  In Los Angeles, fully stocked. But Gavin Newsom has been really good, and so many of the governors have been good, and these are governors that Ive been fighting with about different things for a long time. The forest fires in his case, and the border, and all sorts of things. And here we are getting along very well. And I appreciate his nice words. I really do. I really appreciate it. And the people with me appreciate it. Do you have another question? Yeah. Good question. I mean, look, we just started this, we were just notified. And some of the governors have asked us to build hospitals through extensions, through portable hospitals, through things. And normally, in all fairness, this is done normally through local government. We dont go into cities and expand a hospital thats existing, but were doing it now, because we really are equipped to do it. We have incredible people, and where expanding hospitals, were building many portable hospitals. Not only Javits Center, where you have four, plus you have four medical centers, but were doing it in New Jersey. Governor Murphy. Were doing it in other states. Were doing it in California. Were doing some in the state of Washington, despite the fact that Im not appreciative of the way the governor speaks. Were doing it in a lot of different locations, and were doing a lot of expansions. Were also taking over buildings, and the city will go in, or the state usually will go in, take over a building, and we go in and equip it and make it so that its now hospital functioning. They call it hospital functioning. Were doing a lot of that. Again, this is normally done by governors, and then give it to the city to do it. You know, you bring it into the point, but were doing a lot of that, and theyre doing a great job, mostly done by the Army Corps of Engineers, and FEMA. That I dont know. Yeah. Well they say I had classified briefings a long time ago, which wasnt true. But weve had briefings, and as I know it, the governors have also had many briefings by- I think we knew for a while, but if you take a look, I was the first one to say to China, and I have great respect for China, I will tell you that. But I was the first one when they had the problem, to say you cant come in. And if you go back, thats a long time ago. Jon, please? Heres what were going to have. Are you ready? Were going to have more than, were manufacturing a lot of them now, were accumulating a lot. Were taking a lot, through the act, were taking a lot. Were actually taking them. And were going to have in a very short period of time, and Peters doing it along with some very talented people, some really talented people. Its very impressive actually, but were actually taking a lot. Were going to have plenty. And if for some reason, Jon, if for some reason youre going to need even more, were going to be prepared.  As an example, weve given out thousands and thousands, which I think youll know. We accumulated thousands. We give them out. But we right now, I think in the stockpile, we have over 10,000. The reason we dont want to distribute that is for exactly what youre saying. If theres a mad rush in New York, or maybe in Louisiana, or maybe someplace else, we dont want to have given out all of those units, the ventilators, and then in those sections we give them to Iowa, but they didnt have a problem in Iowa. We give them to Idaho. We give them to lots of different places, and now we have to try and get them back, which is never easy to do. No Jon, what Im saying is this, we are prepared for things that nobody has any idea that wed be prepared. And you know what? When I took this over, it was an empty box. We didnt have testing, we didnt have anything. We had a broken system there. We had a broken system with stockpiling, we had a lot of broken systems. And Im not just blaming President Obama, you go long before that, but in all fairness, all of the former presidents, none of them ever thought a thing like this could happen. But we have right now, 10,000 ventilators in stockpile. We are ready to go with those ventilators.  What we dont want is where we distribute the ventilators like we did in New York, and they didnt need them, or they didnt know, or they didnt use them. If we need them in New York, were going to have plenty. Now, were getting a lot of ventilators in the next short period of time. A lot of ventilators are coming in the next short period of time. Were manufacturing. We went to all of the companies, I read their names, we went to all of those companies. They are going to go, I would say round the clock, Peter, is that right? Theyre going round the clock. Lets put it this way. Lets put it this way. Weve distributed thousands and thousands already. Normally these would be bought by states, just so you understand. Normally these would be bought by governors. They were I dont want to say unprepared, but nobody was prepared for this. What weve done, nobody can even imagine. And by the way Ive had governors tell me, including Democrat governors, they said, We cant believe youve been able to do this. And you go to other countries, and were not only competing against states, because we dont want to compete against states. Weve had a couple of cases where states were buying, we were buying, and I said specifically, because I heard about it. Pull back. Let the state buy it. Immediately, the price goes way down, and they end up buying it. But were also competing against many countries, because many countries need the ventilators. Thats why I want to build more if possible. Jon, maybe well take one more question. So heres what Ill tell you. I think were in really good shape. This is a pandemic, the likes of which nobodys seen before. I think were in great shape. I think that number one, weve distributed ventilators are a big deal. Weve distributed vast numbers of ventilators, and were prepared to do vast numbers. I think were in great shape. I hope thats the case. I hope that were going to have leftovers, so we can help other people, other countries. Look, look. Dont be a cutie pie. Okay? Everyone who needs one. Nobodys ever done what weve done. Nobodys done anything like weve been able to do. And everything I took over was a mess. It was a broken country in so many ways, in so many ways other than this. We had a bad testing system. We had a bad stockpile system, we had nothing in the stockpile system. So I wouldnt tell me what youre, you know, like being a wise guy. Go ahead. There may be something where were going to have to help states, because the states have been hurt very badly. And the beautiful thing about our country is, 6.2 trillion, because it is 2.2 plus four, its 6.2 trillion dollars, and we can handle that easily, because of who we are, what we are. Its our money, its our we are the ones. Its our currency. We can handle it, and we can handle I watched Jerome Powell the other day, and he did a good job. He said, well do whatever we have to do. Jon, we have to do whatever we have to do. The priority is life, and safety, and then the economy. Life, and safety. Well see. No, no, no, well see. A lot of things can- I tell them, if its your life, then its your safety, and if we need more time, theyre not going to have a problem waiting it out. Its life, its safety, and its our country, but we have to take care of people. At the same time, we want to get them out. They want to get out. Our country was built on that, but we have to make sure its safe, and everyone knows that. Okay. One more question, please. So Hydroxychloroquine, which is supposed to be the better of the two seems to have some good backing. Were going to see. Look, Governor Cuomo, weve given him 10,000 units. Its a lot. And theyre testing it. Its a malaria drug. Its also a drug for arthritis, and its phenomenal for those two things, as you probably know, especially for malaria. But were going to find out soon. I hope it works. There are signs that it could be doing well, they are testing 10,000 units. Its a lot. And I tell you what, I want to thank the FDA, because they approved it immediately, based on the fact that it was already out for a different purpose. They approved it immediately. So look, Hydroxychloroquine is a very powerful drug for certain things. And its a very successful drug. Theres reason to believe that it could be successful here. Now, the reason I disagree with you, and I think Tony would disagree with me, but the reason I disagree with you is that we have a pandemic.  We have people dying now. If were going to go into labs and test all of this for a long time, we can test it on people right now, who are in serious trouble, who are dying. If it works, weve done a great thing. If it doesnt work, we tried. But this is not something thats going to kill people. So we can go in, and we can test, and we can take our time. When I was with the FDA, they indicated that, Well, well start working on it right away, and it could take a year. I said, What do you mean a year? We have to have it tonight. If we dont have it tonight, I want to test it immediately. Because its on the market in a different form. So we know that. So from a safety standpoint, at least we know that, but youre talking about giving it to people, who in many cases are dying. So we want to do it the way this is sort of like Right-To-Try. We got Right-To-Try approved. Jon, for 44 years or more, they couldnt get it approved. We have the best labs, the best doctors. They couldnt get it I got it approved. Now, if somebodys terminally Ill, and if we think we have something thats going to work, we can actually use it. They can use it, and Ill tell you what you ought to do when this is over. Youve got to do a story on that, because we have had some tremendous results. Its not even talked to me about, just more fake news Jon. Look, not even talked to me. Theyre talking about the only one Ive heard that from, like as an example, China pays 25% interest on $250 billion worth of product that they send in. Thats a lot. Everybody keeps saying, Oh, are you going to suspend the tariffs? Well, the answers no, but President Xi never even brought it up last night, it wasnt even discussed. Its fake news. Tell the Wall Street Journal. The Wall Street Journal does a lot of fake news too. Its pretty amazing.  So I want to leave you by just saying, I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank the American public, and all of the people that have helped so much, and were going to give the podium to vice president Pence, who has been incredible, and if hes tired, and if hes not answering questions like he should, we have a great reason, because he hasnt slept in about four weeks. But I want to thank him, because he has dedicated, I mean he is a dedicated person long before this, but the job hes done has been fantastic. So I want to thank Mike, all the people on the task force, and FEMA, and Army Corps, everybody. Youve been fantastic. Thank you all very much."
"Well, thank you all very much. Its a very important day. I will sign the single biggest economic relief package in American history, and I must say, or any other package, by the way. Its twice as large as any relief ever signed. Its a 2.2 billion, but it actually goes up to 6.2 potentially billion dollars, trillion dollars. So youre talking about a $6.2 trillion bill, nothing like that. And this will deliver urgently needed relief to our nations families, workers and businesses. And thats what this is all about. And theyd got a 96 to nothing. And I dont know what was the number in Congress?  Was fantastic. Thats pretty amazing. Thats about the same thing, right Kevin? So thats fantastic. But I want to thank Republicans and Democrats for coming together, setting aside their differences and putting America first. This legislation provides for direct payments to individuals and unprecedented support to small businesses. Were going to keep our small businesses strong and our big businesses strong, and thats keeping our country strong and our jobs string. This historic bill includes the following:  $300 billion in direct cash payments will be available to every American citizen earning less than $99,000 per year. $3,400 for a typical family of four. So family of four $3,400. And then $350 billion in job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying their workers. The workers get paid. Approximately $250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. The average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100% of their salary for up to four full months. So things like this have never happened in our country. $500 billion in support for hard-hit industries with a ban on corporate stock buybacks. We dont let them buy back the stock. We dont let that happen. And tough limits on executive compensation over $100 billion to support our heroic doctors, nurses, and hospitals.  And you see whats happening. And I want to thank, while were here also the incredible job thats done by the Army Corps of Engineers and by FEMA. Its been incredible. They did four hospitals in two days or three days in New York and theyre like incredible structures. What a job theyve been doing and theyre doing them all over the country. $45 billion for the disaster relief fund supporting our state, local and tribal leaders. $27 billion for the development of vaccines, therapies and other public health response efforts, including $16 billion to build up the strategic national stockpile with critical stockpiles. And Im going to, we have a tremendous supplies coming into the stockpile and youll be seeing that and hearing about it a little bit because were doing a news conference at 5:30 on whats happening. Weve had tremendous results on the respirators. Weve had great results on just about everything were talking about.  Boeing just announced that theyre going to be making the plastic face shields, the actual shields, which are hard to come by and theyre going to be making them by the thousands a week. And the ventilators, which is probably the most difficult because its like building a car. We will be announcing thousands are going to be built and we have a month of contract and we have fast deliveries. As you know, we delivered thousands to New York and unfortunately they were delivered to a warehouse, which was good. Unfortunately they didnt take them, but now theyre taking them. New York is now taking them and redistributing around the areas that they need. So you have also $3.5 billion to states to expand childcare benefits for healthcare workers, first responders and others on the front lines of this crisis and $1 billion for securing supplies under the defense protection act.  And as you know, Ive enacted the act and weve used it three or four times. I pulled it back three times because the companies came through in the end, they didnt need the act. Its been great leverage. I have instituted that against General Electric. We thought we had a deal for 40,000 ventilators and all of a sudden the 40,000 came down to 6,000 and then they talked about a higher price than we were discussing. So I didnt like it. So we did activate it with respect to General Motors and hopefully maybe we wont even need the full activation. Well find out, but we need the ventilators. I said, hello today. I called him a wonderful guy, Boris Johnson, as you know, he tested positive and before he even said hello, he said, we need ventilators. I said, wow, thats a big statement and hopefully hes going to be in good shape.  I just spoke to Angela Merkel and shes quarantined also. She is right now for a period of two weeks being forced to stay in her house. So this is just an incredible situation. Last night, I spoke to President Xi, we talked about the experience that they had in China and all of the things that have taken place and we learned a lot. Theyve had a very tough experience and theyre doing well and hes doing well. President Xi is doing very well but we learned a lot and we have great communication together. Were going to be sending great data from China, things have happened that they see that theyve had an early experience and were getting all of that information. Much of it was sent yesterday and sent to our scientists to study. So well have more on that also.  Well be discussing that at 5:30 I just want to thank the people behind me. Theyve been incredible friends. Theyve been warriors. Theres nobody tougher or smarter than the people standing alongside of me. And I think I want to start off by asking Mitch and then Kevin to speak and then were going to go through a few of the folks in the room if theyd like to say something. But Mitch, Id love you to say a few words because this man worked 24 hours a day for a long time. This is the result. Its the biggest ever, ever approved in Congress. $6.2 trillion. So, we used to get used to the billion. It used to be million than it was billion. Now its trillion and its going to go a long way. Its going to make a lot of people very happy. Mitch McConnell, please."
"Thank you very much, Mark. Thank you very much, Mark, and youre doing a fantastic job. Our country appreciates it very much.  Thank you everybody for being here today. Im deeply honored to be at Naval Station Norfolk, the largest naval base anywhere in the world and the home to the most powerful fleet that has ever sailed the seas. I just passed some of the most beautiful and, frankly, the most highly-lethal ships that I have ever seen in my life, and there are a lot of them, and theyre in better shape now than they have been for many, many decades with what were doing.  Were grateful to be joined by Commander of the US Fleet Forces, Admiral Christopher Grady, and Commander of the US 2nd Fleet, Vice Admiral Woody Lewis. Thank you both for being here. We appreciate it very much.  As we gather today, our country is at war with an invisible enemy. We are marshaling the full power of the American nation, economic, scientific, medical, and military to vanquish the virus, and we will do that.  Today, Im here to express my profound gratitude to the dedicated service members who will soon be on the front lines of this fight. In a few moments, the crew of the Navy Hospital Ship USNS Comfort, which is really something, will embark for New York City, where they will join the ranks of tens of thousands of amazing doctors, nurses, and medical professionals who are battling to save American lives.  This great ship behind me is a 70,000-ton message of hope and solidarity to the incredible people of New York, a place I know very well, a place I love. Were here for you, we fighting for you, and we are with you all the way, and we always will be. You have the unwavering support of the entire nation, the entire government, and the entire American people.  After being rushed out of maintenance with historic speed, it was supposed to be here for four weeks, and they did it in four days, the Comfort will arrive at Pier 90 in Manhattan on Monday, three weeks ahead of schedule. Its crew will begin treating patients on Tuesday. It will be met in New York Harbor by Governor Cuomo, who I just spoke with. Hes very excited, and they need the help.  The skilled sailors and civilian mariners aboard this ship will provide a critical surge capacity for the New York metropolitan area. Their mission will be to care for New Yorkers who do not have the virus but who require urgent care. In other words, theyll be using this. People will be coming out of hospitals who dont have the virus, and theyll be on the ship where they have great operating rooms and great facilities. The places inbound, on land, will be where people that have the virus will be. So the people with the virus will not be on ship. The ship will be used for people having operations and other things other than that. By serving these emergency patients away from the hospitals, beds will be opened up all over the city for those who are infected.  This ship can handle a lot of people, so it will open capacity all over the city, and itll be ready to address any life-threatening medical emergency. It is stocked, its stocked to the brim with equipment and medicines and everything you can think of. Importantly, by treating noninfected patients remotely on the ship, it will help to halt very strongly the transmission of the virus.  The Comforts sister ship on the West Coast, the USNS Mercy, arrived ahead of schedule substantially in port yesterday. Governor Gavin Newsom was very thankful for it. Theyre working very hard in California. Its performing a similar mission for the people of Los Angeles and the people of California.  As the USNS Comfort gets underway, it is fully loaded with 12 operating rooms and they are fully equipped, 1000 hospital beds, a medical laboratory, a pharmacy, an optometry lab, digital radiology, a CT scan, two oxygen-producing plants, and a helicopter deck, which will be used very actively. It also bears our militarys greatest weapon of all, a crew of nearly 1,200 outstanding members of the United States Navy, and I thank them very much.  Among the sailors departing today are some of the finest doctors, nurses, technicians, orderlies, and medical staff anywhere in the world. These are true professionals, and no one performs better under pressure when lives are on the line. These are incredible people.  We will stop at nothing to protect the health of New Yorkers and the health of the people of our country in their hour of need.  I also want to remind everyone about the CDCs latest guidance. If you are from the New York metropolitan area and you travel elsewhere, we need you to self-quarantine for 14 days to help us contain the spread of the virus. I am now considering and will make a decision very quickly, very shortly, a quarantine. Because its such a hot area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, well be announcing that one way or the other fairly soon. This does not apply to people, such as truckers from outside the New York area who are making deliveries or simply transiting through. It wont affect trade in any way.  The Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA are racing to build temporary hospitals which are now completed, by the way, in record time. Four hospitals, four medical centers. In speaking with the Governor this morning, were giving them an additional four large tents which they need very badly. The emergency medical stations in New York are top of the line. You have them in not only New York, but in California and Illinois. Well be adding some to other states also.  Ive empowered our nations governors with the resources to call up the National Guard and authorized the activation of ready reserves. Two big words, ready reserves. FEMA has shipped or delivered 11.6 million N95 respirators, 26 million surgical masks, 5.2 million face shields, and a lot are being made of all of the things I just named right now. We have millions and millions of new medical items being made as we speak, and purchased. 4.3 million surgical gowns, 22 million gloves, and 8,100 ventilators. We have moved rapidly to mobilize every instrument of American power.  This week, I invoked the Defense Production Act to compel General Motors to carry out federal contracts for ventilators, and I think theyre going to do a great job. I have to say that. Were also working with the major ventilator companies in the United States. All big name companies, all companies that do ventilators, so they wont need extra time. Theyre gearing up, and theyll be working 24 hours around the clock, and they have been, theyve been doing a fantastic job, to accomplish a historic ramp-up and a ramp-up in the kind of numbers that were talking about.  If we make too many, thats going to be okay, because I spoke with the Prime Minister of the UK yesterday, Boris Johnson. He tested, as you know, positive. Before I even was able to get a word out of him, he said  I said, How you doing? He said, We need ventilators. The UK needs ventilators. A lot of countries need ventilators badly. Its a tough thing to make. Its a very complicated and expensive piece of equipment. I would say more so than a car. Youre talking about expensive, complicated equipment. So I hope we soon will have enough that we can help other countries with ventilators. A lot of countries need them.  In the next 100 days, America will make or acquire three times more ventilators than we do in an entire year, we are so geared up. At Boeing, Ford, Honeywell, 3M, , and other great American companies, factory floors and manufacturing lines are being converted to produce the respirators, protective masks, face shields, and other vital equipment. Those companies have been amazing. Boeing is giving us their cargo-moving planes. Theyre the biggest cargo movers anywhere in the world, and were going to be using them to ship certain types of equipment to various states.  Hundreds of millions of Americans are also making tremendous sacrifices on the home front in a historic drive to support our great workers and businesses. I signed into law the single largest economic relief package in American history. You saw that yesterday. The $2.2 trillion, and think of that $2.2 trillion, but it goes to $6.2 trillion depending on what we decide. This legislation delivers job retention loans for small businesses to help them keep workers on payroll, expanded unemployment benefits, and direct cash payments to American citizens. These are very substantial payments. A family of four will be getting approximately $3,400.  This legislation also provides massive increases in funding for hospitals who need it for disaster relief fund and critical lifesaving medical supplies. Were spending a tremendous amount of money on medical supplies. Were trying to get it to the point needed directly, as opposed to our supply lines, so it can go directly to where they need it without having to go through a long process. I dont want to say bureaucratic, but we have not  This group of people has worked so incredibly hard, and the energy and the speed with which theyre delivering everything has been really admired by everybody. Everybodys talking about it, the job theyre doing.  My administration has also taken action to dispend and suspend federal student loan payments, so were suspending, and that means suspending in every sense of the word, student loan payments so that the students that are not able to take advantage of whats going on, obviously for obvious reasons, they will be, the payments suspended.  Weve temporarily stopped federal evictions and foreclosures. Weve postponed tax day until July, which is a big thing, first time thats happened, and waved regulations to speed new treatments to the market. We have new treatments coming on rapidly. Were doing very well, we think, with vaccines, and were doing very, very well with, hopefully or potentially, cures. Were looking at a lot of different alternatives, a lot of different medicines that would be game changer.  The battle in which were now engaged has inflicted many hardships on our nation and our families, tremendous hardship on some families, and much death, much death. But through it all, the world has witnessed the unyielding resolve of our incredible American people. We are not only a country of vast resources, were a nation of colossal strength, towering spirit, soaring patriotism, and exceptional character, and youre showing it to the entire world.  At this moment, there are 151 countries throughout the world that are under attack by this horrible, invisible enemy. 151 countries, and were in touch with a lot of them. Our professionals are the best in the world. But who would ever think 151 countries are under attack?  We are one family bound together by love and loyalty, the eternal traits so perfectly embodied by the extraordinary men and women aboard this ship, and the men and women at this beautiful, scenic, but really tough base. This base is something. Thank you very much. This base is something very, very special.  With the courage of our doctors and nurses, with the skill of our scientists and innovators, with the determination of the American people, and with the grace of God, we will win this war, and we will win this war quickly with as little death as possible.  When we achieve our victory, this victory, your victory, we will emerge stronger and more united than ever before. We are going to be at a level of preparedness in case something like this should ever happen again. And God willing, it wont. But we are prepared. What weve done in building systems, were now the number one tester anywhere in the world by far. Were testing more in one day than other countries are testing in weeks and months.  Weve learned a lot, and I cannot be more thankful to the American people. I can say this, and I can say this from the bottom of my heart, I am very proud to be your President. Thank you very much, and God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate everybody being here. Beautiful day in the rose garden. Tremendous distance between chairs, social distancing. You practice it very well. We appreciate it. Thats great. I want to start today by highlighting several critical developments on both the testing and treatment that will help us win our war against the coronavirus. On Friday, the FDA authorized a new test developed by Abbott Labs that delivers lightening fast results in as little as five minutes, and its a whole new ballgame. I want to thank Abbott Labs for the incredible work theyve done. Theyve been working around the clock. Normally this approval process from the FDA would take 10 months and even longer, but we did it in four weeks. Abbott has stated that they will begin delivering 50,000 tests each day starting this weekend. As you know, even before this development, weve been doing more tests than any other country anywhere in the world.  Its one of the reasons that we have more cases than other countries, because weve been testing. Its also one of the reasons that were just about the lowest in terms of mortality rate, because weve been doing more testing so we have bigger numbers to look at. I want to also thank General Seminite out of the Army Corps of Engineers and general Paul Acheck whos here with us, whos going to say a few words in a little while. What the Army Corps of Engineers did along with FEMA in New York was incredible. They built 2,900 beds worth of hospital, an incredible hospital in the Javits Center, which I know well, and I just want to say that was unreal. They did it in less than four days. People have never seen anything like that, and its an incredible, complex, top of the line hospital. They did it so quickly.  Everyones trying to figure out how they did it, including me and I was a good builder, but they did it very quickly, Mike. So were very, were very happy. So I want to thank army Corps of engineers, FEMA, the incredible job they have done now theyre moving to other locations throughout the country where they already have people building hospitals. Were doing them in Louisiana and New Jersey, many, many other places. But these are incredible men and women and they worked around the clock and the people of New York are very happy. Governor Cuomo expressed his thanks, which we appreciate, but these are  I mean, nobody could have done a job like that. Most people have never seen anything like it. The deployment of rapid testing will vastly accelerate our ability to monitor, track, contained, and ultimately defeat the virus. We will defeat the virus. It will also allow us to test doctors, nurses, and other healthcare workers immediately and enable us to act quickly and aggressively to shut down the spread of the virus, so important in critical facilities like hospitals and nursing homes.  We will ensure that we can give cities and states the best information to guide local decision makers in making. I want to point out that the hydroxychloroquine is being administered to 1,100 patients, people in New York along with the Z-Pak, which is azithromycin, and its very early yet. Its only  It started two days ago, but we will see what happens. I want to thank Steven Hahn, whos a great doctor. Left one of the best jobs in our country running an incredible hospital in Texas, and hes the head of the FDA and Steven got approval for that so fast. Lets see how it works. It may, it may not, but we may have some incredible results. Were going to know soon. So its tested  Its being tested on 1,100 people in New York. The FDA is also allowing the emergency use of a blood-related therapy called convalescent plasma as an experimental treatment for seriously ill patients.  This treatment involves taking blood plasma from patients who have already recovered from the virus, so theyre recovered, theyre strong, something was good in them that worked, and so we take the plasma from those people that have recovered so well, meaning their plasma is rich in antibodies against the virus and transfusing it into sick patients, very, very, very powerfully. So sick patients will be transfused with the blood taken to boost their immune system. Well see what happens and were having some early results that are good, but we will see, and thats going, I think, very rapidly. Again, we got approvals in really very quick time. Were also looking at an approval for the sterilization of masks. I kept saying to myself  Ive seen some of the masks are very complex. Were delivering millions by the way, millions, but I kept saying, Why arent they able to use that mask a second, third, fourth time?  Mike DeWine, the great governor of Ohio called me, they have a company that is in the final process of getting approval for the sterilization of masks and in some cases, depending on the mask, some of these masks are very, very strong, very powerful, very strong material. Theyre able to sterilize the mask up to 20 times. So thats, I guess, like getting 20 masks. And so we worked on that. As soon as I heard from Mike today, I got involved and the FDA is now involved and were trying to get a fast approval for the sterilization of masks. That would be a tremendous difference. It would be really helpful. While much of the research has to be done, we have a lot of research left to do obviously, this treatment on plasma has shown promising results in other countries. Were in communication with other countries, very strong communications and theyre very reliant on us in just about all cases.  We have the greatest people in the world. Theyre very, very anxious to find out how were doing on our different things, whether its a cure or whether its really anything having to do with getting people better. We have some interesting things will be announced I think over the next few weeks, but well see what happens. Theyre being tested right now. The vaccines are moving along very rapidly. The vaccines are an answer, but Id like to see if we could do something therapeutically so that we could take care of the people that are already sick, and were working on that at a level that people would be amazed. These are incredible people. They dont stop. This method also has been used for more than a century, and thats the blood-related therapy. More than a century to fight off infectious diseases. So its not unusual.  Our level of complexity has changed, but its a concept thats been used for a long time, including during the Spanish Flu epidemic, and that was really a pandemic of proportions like, frankly, nobodys seen until what were facing now. That was in 1918. You know what the result of that was, probably from 75 to 100 million people were killed and also other viruses like the one in this outbreak. This is a very tough one. This is a tough one because it spread so quickly, like nothing weve seen. It spread so easily, so quickly. Were unleashing every tool in our nations vast arsenal, economic, if you look, medical and scientific, military. Homeland Security is a working very, very hard with all of them in order to vanquish the virus. As you know, every level of government, state, local and federal is working nonstop to obtain more personal protective equipment for frontline workers, were delivering vast orders of this material. Im going to ask a couple of the people here to join me that both make it and deliver it.  Joining us today are the leaders of Americas largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment including McKesson, Cardinal health, Henry Schein, Owens and Minor, Medline, FedEx and UPS. We just concluded a very productive meeting about ways to keep our supply chains and delivery systems moving at top speed. And maybe Id like to just ask for a couple of minutes for Mike Coffman to come up and maybe Ed Pesicka. Mike is with Cardinal and Ed is Owen and Minor, but I and I appreciate it and if anybody else has anything, please come up. But if you could come up Mike for a second and Ed for a second, just you could maybe say what you told me before when we had the meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I bring that up because when we discussed back in a room, we were in a conference room. Very nice one, actually. Its called the cabinet room. That statement was made that theyve been delivering for years, 10 to 20,000 masks. Okay. Its a New York hospital. Its packed all the time. How do you go from 10 to 20 to 300,000? 10 to 20,000 masks, to 300,000. even though this is different, somethings going on. And you ought to look into it as reporters. Where are the masks going? Are they going out the back door? How do you go from 10,000 to 300,000? And we have that in a lot of different places. So somebody should probably look into that, because I just dont see from a practical standpoint how thats possible to go from that to that. And we have that happening in numerous places. Not to that extent. That was the highest number Ive heard. Thats the highest number youve seen, I would imagine. Right? But this man makes them and delivers them to a lot of hospitals.  He knows the system better than anybody. And I think you were more surprised than I was when you saw that number. So thank you very much. I hope I didnt get any of your clients in trouble, but it could be that they are in trouble. So they have to look at that in New York. FEMA is working with these companies to launch Project Airbridge to expedite the movement of critical supplies from other countries to the United States. The first flight arrived at JFK Airport, New York this morning, filled with 80 tons of personal protective equipment including 130,000 N95 respirators. Those are the ones that we were talking about before. 1.8 million face masks and gowns, 10.3 million gloves and many other things, millions and millions of different items. FEMA has scheduled 19 additional flights and is adding more daily. We hope to have about 50 flights. Were going to have, I think including the one that came in today, were up at 51 flights with these massive planes from the different companies that was so nice to be here today. Would you like to say something on behalf? Please come up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job youre doing. Please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Fantastic job. Anybody else if you want? Yes please. You did such a great job. . Thank you. So thank you all very much and for the great job youre doing. Its really incredible, frankly. Many of the States are stocked up. Some of them dont admit it, but we have sent just so much, so many things to them and including ventilators. Theres a question as to hoarding of ventilators. Some hospitals and independent hospitals and some hospital chains as we call them, they are holding ventilators. They dont want to let them up. We need them for certain areas where theres big problems. We cant hold them if they think there might be a problem weeks down the road. So weve delivered a lot in this group has been really fantastic. We want to thank you, and UPS and FedEx in particular. Youve gone absolutely out of your way. So we appreciate everything youve done and delivered. The federal government continues to mobilize every resource to make sure our frontline doctors and nurses have the equipment needed to save American lives.  Yesterday I visited naval station Norfolk as the USNS comfort departed for New York three weeks ahead of schedule, fully loaded with 12 operating rooms, 1,000 hospital beds and hundreds of the best doctors, nurses, and medical professionals anywhere in the United States Navy, anywhere, frankly, in the United States. It was an incredible thing to see. Mostly you saw that on television as it was leaving. It left literally three weeks early. It was under a maintenance and they got the maintenance done very quickly. They worked around the clock as many of the people have and it was a great site. Additionally, two of the countrys largest health insurers, Humana and Cigna are announcing that they will waive copays, which is a big deal for anybody that understands insurance. They dont waive copays too easily, but weve asked them to do it and theyve done it. Coinsurance and deductibles for the coronavirus treatments to help ease the financial burden on American families during this pandemic, so theyre waiving copays, coinsurance, and deductibles.  Nobodys  I dont think anyones heard of that one. Have you heard of that one before? I havent heard. I want to thank them. Great companies. Today I spoke with Wolfgang Puck. Wolfgang Puck is a great restaurateur as you know, as is John George and Thomas Keller and Daniel Ballou and other leaders in the restaurant business, which has been probably one of the hardest hit industries. I have directed my staff to use any and all authority available to give restaurants, bars, clubs, incentives to stay open. Youre going to lose all these restaurants and theyre not going to make it back and they have to get going. So what Im doing is Im going to tell Secretary Mnuchen and also our great secretary of labor, who you know very well, to immediately start looking into the restoring of the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations that set the restaurant business back a lot when it was done originally, and then done not so long ago.  Were going to go to deductibility so that companies can send people to restaurants. I think itll have a tremendous impact and maybe keep them open. And I mean, dont forget, some are closing right now, despite the fact that they could be open in the not too distant future and we expect that, but there are some that arent going to be able to get open, and we want to make sure they do. So were going to look at the restoration, restoring the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations so the corporations can send people to restaurants and take a deduction on it like they did in the old days. That was when restaurants were doing really well. The financial relief bill I signed on Friday provided historical relief for American workers and small businesses and includes $350 billion in job restoration and retention. So if you look at job retention loans for small businesses, thats a big deal, with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying the work.   With loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying their workers, so its $350 billion job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying workers. I mean, how about that? $300 billion in direct cash payments are being sent to every American citizen earning less than $99,000 per year, $3400 for the typical family of four, so theyll be getting a check for $3400 for the typical family of four. Approximately $250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. Under this plan, the average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100% of their salary for up to four full months. The bill provides for these unemployment checks to be delivered through the existing state unemployment systems. Not us, state.  I was opposed to this method because many of the states have very antiquated computer systems that are 45 years old, and theyre not prepared to handle this kind of distribution, this kind of money coming in so quickly. Theyre not set up for that, and I didnt want to do it, but our opponents wanted it, so we did it, and if they dont get their money fast, Im going to ask that we convene the federal government, that we come back to Congress and well do something where we take care of it, because we can take care of it very easily and quickly, and I said that, but a lot of these systems are so old and so antiquated at the state level that theyre going, they have the money, theyre going to get the money very quickly, but theyre not going to be able to distribute it, so remember what I said, and we will, if we have to, call Congress back or find some other way of delivery of the money.  Throughout this great national struggle the American people have embodied the unrivaled patriotism and willpower that has led America to conquer every challenge, every single one, in our nations history. More than 90% of Americans say they are staying home as much as possible, putting their lives, their careers, their educations, and their dreams on hold out of devotion to their fellow citizens, and to their country. Social distancing, thats the way you win. These shared sacrifices are pulling our nation together like never before. Family bonds are strengthening, neighbors are looking after neighbors, its incredible. Im seeing, youre seeing, everybodys seeing whats happening. Communities are rallying for the cause, and old divisions are fading away. The Americans of every background are uniting to help our nation in this hour of need.  Its up to 151 countries, so when we say our nation, our nation and the world, when you think. Think of it, 151 countries. Somebody said to me today that wasnt in this particular world, they didnt know that we had that many countries. 151 countries, thats something. Some are struggling at a level that nobody would have believed possible. If you look at Italy, if you look at, France is having big problems, Spain is having incredible problems. Something we did very well is, when we stopped the inflow from China at a very early level, that was a good thing to do. Great thing to do. We would have thousands and thousands of more deaths, and we also stopped the inflow from Europe at a very early level, but those things were very important, especially the initial one, because we had never done anything like it, where we closed our borders to a country like that.  The modeling put together by Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci and our other top healthcare exp-, I mean, we have, and these people are amazing, the healthcare experts who, in this country, are the best in the world, they demonstrate that the mitigation measures we are putting in place may significantly reduce the number of new infections and ultimately the number of fatalities. I want the American people to know that your selfless, inspiring, and valiant efforts are saving countless lives. Youre making the difference. The modeling estimates that the peak in death rate is likely to hit in two weeks, so Ill say it again: the peak, the highest point of death rates, remember this, is likely to hit in two weeks. Nothing would be worse than declaring victory before the victory is won. That would be the greatest loss of all. Therefore, the next two weeks, and during this period its very important that everyone strongly follow the guidelines, have to follow the guidelines that our great vice president holds up a lot. Hes holding that up a lot. He believes in it so strongly.  The better you do, the faster this whole nightmare will end. Therefore, we will be extending our guidelines to April 30th to slow the spread. On Tuesday, we will be finalizing these plans and providing a summary of our findings, supporting data, and strategy to the American people. So well be having lots of meetings in between, but well be having a very important statement made on Tuesday, probably Tuesday evening, on all of the findings, all of the data, and the reasons were doing things the way were doing them. We can expect that, by June 1st, we will be well on our way to recovery. We think by June 1st, a lot of great things will be happening.  I want every citizen in our country to take heart and confidence in the fact that we have the best medical minds in the world tackling this disease. We have the best science, the best researchers, and the best talent anywhere working night and day to protect your family and loved ones and to overcome this pandemic. With the grace of God, we are rising to the occasion. We are proving that no darkness can overshadow the eternal light of American courage. We will win, and when we do, we will rebound with astonishing force and speed. We will be stronger than ever, and we will have learned so much, where something like this can never hurt us to the extent it has, and the world, again.  In our present crisis, the strength of our people is our single most important asset, and together we will defeat this invisible curse, this invisible enemy, and rise to incredible new heights. So I just want to thank you all for being here, and well take some questions if youd like, yeah. Please. Kelly. No, I want the people in New York to check Governor Cuomo, Mayor de Blasio, that when a hospital thats getting 10,000 masks goes to 300,000 masks during the same period, and thats a rapid period, I would like them to check that, because I hear stories like that all the time. Were delivering millions and millions of different products, and all we do is hear, Can you get some more? But when you hear that, and I heard that from one of the great companies of the world, that doing this, its a client, and theyre going from, you heard it, 10,000, 20,000 tops, to 300,000, and thats a hospital thats always full, so I think people should check that, because theres something going on. I dont think its hoarding, I think its maybe worse than hoarding. But check it out. I dont know. I dont know. I think thats for other people to figure out, but you dont go from numbers like that. Now, other equipment likewise, because were delivering a lot of ventilators, and were building, by the way, were building and buying. We have a lot of ventilators that were going to be sending out very soon. We also have, right now, in the stockpile, almost 10,000 ventilators that we have to hold in case of emergency. We dont want them going out and then Louisiana has a tremendous problem, which we now know they do. All of a sudden it came, very quickly. Louisiana was doing so fantastically well, then all of a sudden there was a big rash of cases, so we have to be prepared to move the ventilators. Theyre very important pieces of equipment. Theyre very expensive, and theyre very complex. Its like building a car. These are expensive, complicated, very complicated pieces of equipment.  So we now have 10,000, and we inherited a system which was broken, just like, Ill never forget the day when a general came and said, Sir, my first week in office, We have no ammunition. That was in the military. Weve now rebuilt our military, stronger than its ever been, and we have so much ammunition. You wouldnt believe it how much ammunition we have, but same thing here. We had a stockpile that was deficient. We had testing that was no good. We had a testing situation that just wasnt right. It was okay for very small cases, but it was obsolete and it was broken and it was only good for a very small situation, but what Id like to do is Id like to ask Dr. Fauci to come forward and discuss the number, because I think the number is going to be a very different number than the numbers that you talked about. Please, Doctor. You might talk about that. Deborah, please. Would you, can you explain the 2.2 million if we did nothing, because a lot of people would like to know that. I just want to reiterate, because a lot of people have been asking, well, what would have happened if we did nothing? Did nothing, we just rode it out, and Ive been asking that question to Tony and Deborah, and theyve been talking to me about it for a long time, other people have been asking that question, and I think we got our most accurate study today, or certainly most comprehensive. Think of the number, potentially, 2.2 million people if we did nothing. If we didnt do the distancing, if we didnt do all of the things that were doing. When you hear those numbers, you start to realize that, with the kind of work we went through last week, with the $2.2 trillion, it no longer sounds like a lot, right?  Youre talking about, when I heard the number today, first time Ive heard that number, because Ive been asking the same question that some people have been asking, I felt even better about what we did last week with the $2.2 trillion, because youre talking about a potential of up to 2.2 million, and some people said it could even be higher than that. So youre talking about 2.2 million deaths. 2.2 million people from this. If we can hold that down as were saying, to 100,000, its a horrible number. Maybe even less, but to 100,000, so we have between 100 and 200,000, we altogether have done a very good job. 2.2, up to 2.2 million deaths and maybe even beyond that? Im feeling very good about what we did last week. Yes, please. Go ahead, please. No. It was just an aspiration. We actually will be hitting, potentially, this was with our meeting before, on Easter, that could be a peak. That could be a peak period. That could be the peak, sadly to say, that could be the peak number of deaths before it starts coming down. No, that was aspirational. We had an aspiration of Easter, but when you hear these kind of numbers and you hear the potential travesty, we dont want to do anything where, you know, we dont want to have it spike up. We dont want to do it soon and then all of a sudden you go down, youre coming down, and then you start going up again, because we discussed that could happen, and we dont want that to happen. Weve gone through too much.  That was an aspirational number. I didnt say Easter. I said, It would be a great thing if we could do it by Easter, and we know much more now than we knew two, three weeks ago. Easter should be the peak number and it should start coming down and hopefully very substantially from that point. Okay, thank you. Please. OAN. Well, I dont know. I know that, boy, thats a nice question. Thank you very much. Yeah, I dont want high approval ratings for this. I wish we could have our old life back. We had the greatest economy that weve ever had, and we didnt have death. We didnt have this. We didnt have this horrible scourge, this plague, call it whatever you want. The virus. Were working very hard, thats all I know. I see things, I see numbers. They dont matter to me. What matters to me is that we have a victory over this thing as soon as possible. When you hear that 2.2 million people could have died if we didnt go through all of this, and now the number will be a much lower number, hopefully its going to be the numbers that were talking about, so I appreciate it very much, but what I want is I want our life back again. I want our country back. I want the world back. I want the world to get rid of this. Again, 151 countries. And were going to do it. Were going to have a great victory. Were going to have a great victory. Go ahead, please. Well, thats what they said. I told you what theyre going to take, copays in particular, thats a big deal. Insurance companies dont do that, and I appreciate it. Humana and Cigna, they should be getting a lot of credit for that. I dont know. Those two are getting a lot of credit right now for it, and they should, because its something that, its a lot of money theyre waiving. We thank them. Will there be other companies? I wouldnt be surprised. This great spirit, Ill tell you what. Yeah, Id love to have them do it. Let them waive those copays. Theres a great spirit in this country right now. I know insurance companies better than anybody. They just dont do that. But now theres a spirit like I have not seen. I have never seen anything like it. Even the media is much more fair. I wouldnt say all of it, but thats okay. They should be fair, because they should want this to end. This is about death. So I wan to thank Cigna and Humana. Thank you. They havent asked for reimbursement, so I assume theyre not. They said theyre going to waive them. Waiving them doesnt mean were going to waive them and get reimbursed, no. Well, theyre going to be getting the money. I will tell you, I think landlords are going to take it easy. We may put out a statement on that. I think a lot of people that are owed money is going to take it easy. They dont sort of have a choice, but a lot of concessions are made, just like the insurance companies. A lot of concessions are being made that wouldnt have even been thought of three weeks ago, not even thought of. So a lot of really positive things are happening. Please, behind you. I didnt do that at all. Read the statement. Read the statement. Read what I said. I said, Were going to look into possibly quarantine. I didnt say, Were going to quarantine. I looked at it as a possibility, because a lot of our professionals suggested quarantine. I said, Were going to look at it. We then looked at it, you see? Who are you with? Bloomberg, right? I cant imagine that. Let me just tell you, I didnt threaten it. I dont go around threatening. What happened is people, professionals, very good professionals, love the idea of doing that, because thats sort of the ultimate in distancing. You cant do, they didnt want New Yorkers, where theyre having a problem, necessarily going down to Florida, where they have less of a problem, so the concept of quarantine was thrown out to me, really would love to do it. They would love to do it, and I thought it was too much to do, because the people are doing a great job with it. Also, its very hard to enforce. Okay, please. No, I think we made people aware to stay in your houses and do good. Now we did an advisory. Its a strong advisory. The governors are running the advisory, the three governors. New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and I think we did a great thing. All I did yesterday, as you know, you can see it, you can read it, you can read and you can see very simply that I said that we are looking into it, and then, before the end of the evening, substantially, we decided to go with the advisory, which, frankly, I liked better from the beginning. Go ahead. I didnt say that. Why dont you people act, let me ask you- Why dont you act in a little more positive? Its always trying to get you- Get you, get you, and you know what? Thats why nobody trusts the media anymore. Thats why people  Excuse me, you didnt hear me, thats why you used to work for The Times and now you work for somebody else. Look, let me tell you something, be nice. Dont be-  dont be threatening, be nice. Go ahead. Its not going to impact. Were producing tremendous numbers of ventilators, were doing a great job on it, Mike Pence, our vice president, just headed up the task force, which has been incredible the job theyve done, we have everybody in the White House working on it, everybody in the country is working on this in one way or the other, the fact is weve done a great job of delivering.  Youve seen the biggest people in the business. I mean, theres nobody even close to this group of people, we had a meeting at three oclock, it lasted for a long time, it was a great meeting with the generals, and with everybody else, and they have done a fantastic job.  Im just saying this, if theyre holding  Let me give you one example, we sent thousands of generators to New York, they were put into a warehouse, a New York warehouse, that happened to be located, interestingly, in Edison, New Jersey, they were given to New York, and we then went to other places also giving thousands of ventilators.  The people in New York never distributed the generators. We said, Why didnt you distribute them? Now, you have to understand, they have New York people working in those warehouses, they knew they had them, so we said, Why didnt you distribute them? I hope theyve distributed them now, but maybe they didnt need them so badly, but just so you know, were all, you, me, everybody, were all on the same team.  When journalists get up, and youre a journalist, a fine journalist, when journalists get up-  and ask questions that are so threatening, were all on the same team. Take a look at my interview, what I want to do is if there is something wrong, we have to get to the bottom of it. When I hear facemasks go from 10,000 to 300,000 and they constantly need more, and the biggest man in the business is shocked, he knows all about the virus by the way, hes not surprised by that, he knows all about it, he shouldnt be surprised, he should say, Well, theyre standard because this is really a very tough disease. This is really a very tough virus to handle. Okay, please go ahead- Go ahead. Thats enough, thank you very much. Please, please, thats enough. Thats enough. Thats enough. Thats not fair to your other reporters. Its not fair, you had a long time, a long question. If we have time Ill get back to you for your second question, is that okay? All right, thank you. I appreciate it. Well, we dont know that, but we think the peak will hit. Right. That is our two-  doctors here. Well I can, I think Ill ask doctor and doctor, maybe you could both come up and give your opinion on that, because thats really  Okay, please. Just to finish what  So what both were saying, and what Dr. Fauci just brought up, we dont want to do well and then end a little bit early and have it start going up again, because that would be a disaster. Go ahead, please. Yes. Yes. Yes, we are. In fact, I met last night with our people, were sending them a lot of different things that were not needing because were obviously in need of a lot also, and were also helping them monetarily.  We are helping Italy a lot, were working very closely with Italy, and were working closely with Spain too, which is really hit hard, and were working with everybody. I spoke with Angela Merkel the other day, Germanys hit hard, their mortality rate is different I think because they do more testing, but their mortality rate is much different.  Italys mortality rate is very high, so is Spain, but were working very closely with them, yes. We had a big meeting on it last night. Admiral Giroir, would you please come up and just talk a little bit about the tremendous success thats been made on testing from where we started? Thank you. Thank you Giroir. Thank you Admiral very much, yeah please, go ahead. Well, I dont have to tell you because those companies have come into line, theyre doing a great job, theyre working very hard 24 hours round the clock, so I dont want to give their names now because theyve been great, theyve come into line. And by the way, General Motors is doing a fantastic job, I dont think we have to worry about General Motors now, theyve really, done their job.  And what the Admiral said also, I think we can add this Admiral, the reason we show more cases than anybody else in the world is were doing more testing than anybody else in the world, so we have more cases because were doing far more testing than anybody in the world. And remember, we started with a system that was broken, for many years it was broken, and Im not blaming the last administration, Im saying other administrations, and our pipeline had very little in it, just like we had no ammunition, we had very little medical, we had very little in our pipeline.  Now we have ammunition more than hopefully well ever need, and we also have a pipeline thats packed, and now we have those 10,000 ventilators that we can use because you need some quickly, I mean this goes quickly from place to place. Id love to give them all out right now, but we need them quickly. I dont want to give them out and then we have to take them back and move them someplace else. So were very much prepared. Please. Well, I think youre going to find that almost all states  Look, I was on the call yesterday with the governors, and they were happy with the job were doing, and Ill tell you what, if you had a different administration, they would not have been happy. These are people that speak their mind, they were happy.  It was falsely reported by a couple of people that, Oh gee, they werent. They were happy, they were thrilled. Florida has been taken care of, and Michigan has been taken care of, very important state. To me its very important because Im so proud of what weve done bringing car companies back into Michigan, and were now dealing with the governor, and I think, Mike, I can say that a lot of good things are happening in Michigan, Massachusetts, were dealing with the governor very strongly, and were trying to get things to Massachusetts as rapidly as possible. Well, Florida, look, theyre very aggressive in trying to get things, and theyre doing a very good job, but I think I can say all of the governors are very committed, were very committed, were working together, and were getting things out at a level that nobodys ever seen before. You can speak to FedEx, you can speak to UPS, you can speak, theyve never done anything like this, what theyre doing right now, and nobody in the world has been able to match what these great companies have been able to do. If we left that to government it would have been a tough thing. We have mobilized private enterprise, we have mobilized the greatest companies in the world, and whats happening is incredible.  And that includes Abbott, where Abbott comes out and all of a sudden out of nowhere comes up with this incredible test that simplifies everything, it makes it so easy. So I think youre going to find most states are very happy. Im dealing with the governor of Louisiana, John Bel Edwards, hes a Democrat, if thats what youre getting at, but Im dealing with him very successfully, I think hes very happy. I think hes actually amazed at what hes been able to get.  In fact, we were even forward-thinking, I suggested we send additional ventilators and other things, were building a hospital in Louisiana, very importantly, were building hospitals in New Jersey, Governor Murphy of New Jersey is a terrific guy, and frankly hes got a pretty hotspot right there, right next to New York, and were doing hospitals, were doing ventilators, were getting a lot to Governor Murphy, thats New Jersey. Last night I spoke-  to the governor of Connecticut, we had a great talk with him, we are really doing the job.  Look, Gavin Newsom, the governor of California, hes been terrific. We send them a boat way ahead of schedule, the ship way ahead of schedule, hospital ship, The Mercy, with 1,000 beds, operating rooms, and its been in LA for three days already.  So, I think theyre really happy, and when you think about it, in New York we built 2,900 hospital rooms, beds, nobodys ever seen it before. The governor has never seen anything like that before, this was done by federal government, not by state government, this was done by the federal government, theyre opening it tomorrow.  I wanted to be there so badly, but Secret Service and all of the people involved wont let me, they wont let me. I would love to be there, but they wont let me for obvious reasons, but I wouldve loved to have been at the opening tomorrow of the hospital in New York at Javits Center.  But were very proud of the job weve done, weve mobilized, and getting better and better every day, and the taskforce headed by your vice president, the job theyve done, and they dont even sleep. Okay, any other questions? Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Were ranking counties, and were ranking states, and a lot of people put out false information because they dont know what theyre talking about, and we took over a dead barren system, we took over a system that was obsolete, it was good for a tiny little sample of people, and even that didnt work, because when CDC first looked at their test, the biggest problem they had is the test didnt work.  That wasnt from us, thats been there a long time. Now we have the best tests in the world, and nobody has, now theyre all calling, Can we get the quick test? We call it the quick test, where, by the way, probably more accurate and it takes a few minutes. I mean, its pretty amazing what weve done. Now, were getting along great with the governors, yeah go ahead, please. No, go ahead please. Yeah, thank you. Well, we hope not, but we think its going to  we have aspirational thoughts, we would have loved to have been a little bit sooner, but we have to do it right.  We could have done it, we could have done it on Easter, but there was a good chance that if its coming down, or if its still going up, maybe its going to be coming down by then, but we just felt it was too soon.  We cant take a chance. Again, because of what weve done, and because of the fact that weve stopped the flow from China so early, because the question is, from a lot of my friends, Why dont we just wing it? Why didnt we just wing it? And I kept asking, and we did models now, finally we got these models in, and you hear about the 2.2 million people would have died.  I dont mean we would have had 2.2 million cases, these are 2.2 million people would have died, 2.2 million people. Look, were going to have a meeting, or speech, or press conference, or something on Tuesday, I thought what Id do, I was going to announce the end of April on Tuesday, but I said lets do it now, because somewhere along the line its going to leak, we might as well just do it now and get rid of all the leaks, this way it didnt, nice and clean.  But we have to really do a great job for another couple of weeks, and I think were going to be in great shape, and were going to be in a position, even with what were trying to do with restaurants, with deductability, we have to get these restaurants back in, we have to get our businesses open, we have to get the planes flying, we have to get everything going, we have to get even the cruise ships, I mean we have to get those cruise ships moving along.  We had the greatest economy in the history of the world three weeks ago, and now weve said, Please dont work anymore. Were actually paying people not to work. Nobodys ever heard that, thats not for us. People want to work, but at the same time, and Im so glad that Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx gave us a number, and the number on the outside, and maybe its not even on the outside, we dont know, is 2.2 million people would have died if we didnt do what were doing.  And now were looking at numbers that are going to be much, much, much lower than that, and it makes everything were doing feel much better to me. Please, go ahead. That would be fine, finish it. Go ahead. I was going to call on you next, you know that. Well, I could ask Dr. Fauci to come up, but its common sense. Youre going to have massive depression, meaning mental depression, youre going to have depression in the economy also, but youre going to have mental depression for people, youre going to have large numbers of suicides, take a look at what happens in a really horrible recession or worse, so youre going to have tremendous suicides, but you know what youre going to have more than anything else? Drug addiction.  You will see drugs being used like nobodys ever used them before, and people are going to be dying all over the place from drug addiction, because you would have people that had a wonderful job at a restaurant, or even owned a restaurant, I spoke to great people today that have done a great job, and one day theyre at the top of their business, theyre celebrity chefs, theyve got the most successful restaurants, and in one day they have nothing, theyve gotten wiped out, one day, from our enemy, this invisible, horrible scourge.  So, when you ask me that, its so easy to figure that, I mean, massive drug use, massive depression, mental depression, massive numbers of suicide, anxiety causes disease, they say, a lot of people  youre going to have tremendous, and hopefully were not going to have that, because hopefully, by what were doing, we get the best of both worlds. We dont have to   by what were doing, we get the best of both worlds. We dont have 2.2 million deaths. We have a number thats much less, much, much less, and at the same time, we get our country running again. Please, thank you - Thank you very much. You were next. He was very nice in doing it, though, nevertheless. Go head- Which is very unusual for CNN. I dont think so- Its a great question, actually, and I asked that the same. I said, How about Nebraska? How about Idaho? How about Iowa? You know what? Those people are so great, the whole Midwest, I dont think they want to be in that position, actually. Probably, I was given a pretty strong look by these two people. They said, We dont like that idea, so were relying on them. Theyre the best in their profession and they didnt like the idea. We could do it, but I dont think it would be good. I didnt say that - I didnt say that - No  its such a - Excuse me, are you ready? Ready? Ready? Take a look at what I said. I want them to be appreciative of me, and then you cut it off because its fake news, CNN - Please, please, let me just finish. You just said it again and you know the answers a lie. You know that - Let me just  say - Your statement and your response and your answer is a lie because heres the story. Are you ready? I said, I want you to be appreciative of me, and then you go on and then I go on and you cut it off, but it says - Thank you. Thank you. I dont call - I dont call, no- I dont call. No  I dont call the Governor of Washington now- But Mike Pence calls and the Head of FEMA calls. I dont stop them. Did I ever ask you to do anything negative Mike to Washington? The State of Washington? Michigan, I love that state. Thats  one of my favorite places in the whole world, Michigan, and Im so proud of whats happened with the auto industry. Its coming back to Michigan. No, I dont have to call because Im probably better off not. Hes a failed Presidential candidate. Hes a nasty person. I dont like the Governor of Washington, so you know who calls? I get Mike Pence to call. I get the Head of FEMA to call. I get the Admiral to call, but what you didnt say See, you started it off and you talked about, I have to be appreciated, but then when you read the rest - It said, Because if you dont appreciate youre not respecting these incredible people, the two admirals. Youre not appreciating FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers who built 2900 beds in three and a half days and youre not appreciating all of the work thats been done and youre not appreciating these incredible people from private enterprise that are delivering things in numbers nobodys ever seen. See, thats why people arent watching CNN very much anymore. Thats why they dont like it. Thats why youre ratings are no good because you even after knowing the truth for days now, you bring up the old lie. Read the rest of your question, the rest of your statement you didnt put in. You have to put that in and it said in there FEMA and it said in there Army Corps of Engineers because when they disrespect me, theyre disrespecting our government. You know what? I dont mind if Im disrespected, but they cant disrespect the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. Okay- Please, go ahead. I want them to appreciate the incredible job were doing. We are doing a job the likes of which has never been done before and there are a couple of people that know that, but for political reasons, lets say theyre Democrats. They dont want to give this administration credit, and thats okay  but I dont have to deal with them  but our Vice President does deal with them. Please, go ahead. Thats why CNN is not trusted anymore. They are not trusted. They are fake news. Remember that. Go ahead. Yes you are. Go ahead. Yeah. No, we think its going to really start to open up. We think that thats going to be the bottom of the hill. Thats where were looking at, June 1st, maybe even a little bit sooner than that. We have this hill. If we did nothing, the hill would have been up here. We did a lot. We did just about maximum and we got lucky because we stopped China from coming in and then later on we stopped Europe. We got lucky. We got very lucky. The people that were coming in here, they went to Italy, they went to Spain, they went to other countries. We got lucky and they got unlucky, to be honest with you. You look at whats going on in Italy and Spain in particular. No, I dont want that. June 1st, we think we can reach the bottom of that hill on June 1st and that would be a great thing. I have confidence of the two doctors. I think that could be a day. It could even be sooner. It could be a little bit later. It could be sooner, but I think people would be very happy if we did a job and saved potentially millions of lives, I think people would be very happy with that date. Okay  yes, please - Well, Im prepared to do whatevers necessary to, number one, save lives, and number two, bring our economy back strong just like it was before. I think our economy has a chance to be just as good and even better than it was before. Remember, a lot of the money that you read about, thats all coming back. These are loans to great companies that got stopped from doing business. Theyll be back very soon, so much of the money that were talking about, that moneys coming back and well take warrants, meaning well take pieces of the company for the taxpayers of our nation. I expect that well make a lot of money with that money. Were going to make a lot of money, and thats okay. I dont even want to talk about making money because what I want to talk about is two things. Number one is saving lives, and number two is bringing our economy back, but I think were going to do very well. That whole money is a lot of its coming back. Please. No, I know exactly what youre saying. No, Ive read that - Well, I read that CNN doesnt want to cover them, except that they cant help them because their ratings are so high. If the ratings were low, they wouldnt be here. This man wouldnt be here. In a hundred years, you could bet your life that he would never be here with CNN and all of their cameras if theyre bad because we help their ratings. We lift up their ratings because their ratings are very low, but for the most part I havent heard that. I will say The Washington Post has a drive on not to go to the President of the United States news conference because, frankly, so many people are watching. Were getting the word out, were getting the accurate word out, and a lot of people are happy about it and a lot of people arent, but they should be happy. When I have the General, when I have Seema and when I have Tony and when I have our these are all people that have become big stars, but theyve done a great job. Deborah has done a fantastic All of these people, they dont want to be stars. You know what they want? They want to win. They want to win the battle against the virus. Theyve been fighting this stuff their whole life, between Ebola and swine flu and, I dont know, Im not sure Id love your life, but thats what you like, right? Thats what they do. They fight disease, and you know what? Theres nobody that does it better. I think the American public, ultimately, they should be the decider. If they dont want to watch, they shouldnt watch and we shouldnt have bigger ratings than The Bachelor, or as The New York Times said, we have Monday Night Football-type ratings. Now, I didnt say that. I have no idea what they are in a sense, but I know that The Times, they say that its all the news thats fit to print, I say its all the news thats not fit to print because I think they are not honest people, but thats okay. They cant help it, but even they said that the ratings are like Monday Night Football ratings and that these are like Bachelor Finale. Thats their end when the big deal happened. I have no idea what happened because Im too busy working on this. Somebody will tell me what happened. No, I think its terrible. When they dont want the President of the United States to have a voice, youre not talking about democracy any longer. Please. Thank you very much. No. No, and this is before we heard the 2.2 million people. I mean, we had a lot of people were saying maybe we shouldnt do anything, just ride it. They say ride it like a cowboy. Just ride it. Ride that sucker right through. Thats where the 2.2 million people come in. Would have died maybe, but it would have been 1.6 to 2.2, and thats not acceptable, but there were a lot of people that said I thought about it. I said, Maybe we should ride it through. You know you always hear about the flu. I talk about it all the time. We had a bad flu season. Were in the midst of a bad flu season. You know we had a bad season last year as an example, a bad flu season. Youll have 35, 36, 37,000 people die, sometimes more, sometimes less. This is different and part of this is the unknown. Part of it also is the viciousness of it. I had a friend who went to a hospital the other day. Hes a little older and hes heavy, but hes a tough person. He went to the hospital and a day later hes in a coma. I go, Hows he doing? Sir, hes in a coma. Hes unconscious. Hes not doing well. The speed and the viciousness, especially if it gets the right person, its horrible. Its really horrible. Please, go ahead. Yeah. I dont think its a rumor, I think its a fact and Louisiana has been hit hard. Louisiana is an example. It started off with like nobody for so long when I spoke to the Governor, but Deborah or Tony, either of you, if youd like to talk about it? I think Im waiting for that little 45-minute test. I sort of like that, or now its down to five minutes I understand. No, I havent, but I think I will take it again if its appropriate. I dont feel theres any symptoms. Have you noticed any sniffles? Nothing, right? So far I havent felt that way, but you know there was a big strong point made originally. I think it still holds. Take the test if you need it if you have the symptoms. If you dont, dont take it. Thats put out by the professionals, so I dont have it, but I would take it. I just wanted to say one thing also about what Tony had mentioned. I grew up in Queens, New York, and right next to a place called Elmhurst, Queens. They have a hospital thats a very good hospital, Elmhurst Hospital. Ive known it, Ive known where it is. I can tell you the color on the outside, the size of the windows. I mean, I know it very well. It was near my community where I lived. Ive been watching that for the last week on television. Body bags all over in hallways. Ive been watching them bring in trailer trucks, freezer trucks. Theyre freezer trucks because they cant handle the bodies theres so many of them. This is essentially in my community in Queens, New York. Ive seen things that Ive never seen before. I mean, Ive seen them but Ive seen them on television in far away lands. Ive never seen them in our country. Elmhurst Hospital, unbelievable people. I mean, when I see the trucks pull up to take out bodies, and these are trucks that are as long as The Rose Garden and theyre pulling up to take out bodies and you look inside and you see the black body bags. You say, Whats in there? Its Elmhurst Hospital, must be supplies. Its not supplies, its people. Ive never seen anything like it. These people are doing a fantastic job, and somebody else whos doing a fantastic job is sitting here who is the Head of the Task Force and I just maybe want to finish off because Id like to ask Mike, what do you think about what weve done? Where do you think were going? How do you feel also? You studied this so closely. How do you feel about the curve and the June 1st date? Thats aspirational, but I think thats really modified aspirational because I think were going to hit it and maybe well even beat it. Okay, Mike, please. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mike. I just want to end by saying that were all in this together, all of us. I have never seen anything like it. The unity, the esprit de corps, the spirit, Ive never seen anything like it. Its a beautiful thing to watch. Unfortunately, the enemy is death. Its death. A lot of people are dying, so its very unpleasant. Its a very unpleasant thing to go through, but the level of competence, the level of caring, the level of love, I just think its brilliant and its possibly happening in other countries, possibly. I dont know, I cant speak to other countries, but I can speak to the United States of America, and Ive said it before and Ill say it again. I am very proud to be your President. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Thank you."
"Appreciate you being here. Yesterday I announced that we would be extending our social distance guidelines through the end of April. This is based on modeling that show us the peak in fatalities will not arrive for another two weeks. The same modeling also shows that by very vigorously following these guidelines, we could save more than 1 million American lives. Think of that, 1 million American lives. Our future is in our own hands and the choices and sacrifices we make will determine the fate of this virus and really the fate of our victory. We will have a great victory. We have no other choice. Every one of us has a role to play in winning this war. Every citizen, family, and business can make the difference in stopping the virus. This is our shared patriotic duty. Challenging times are ahead for the next 30 days and this is a very vital 30 days. Were sort of putting it all on the line, this 30 days so important because we have to get back.  But the more we dedicate ourselves today, the more quickly we will emerge on the other side of the crisis. And thats the time were waiting for. The more we commit ourselves now, the sooner we can win the fight and return to our lives and they will be great lives. Maybe better than ever. Today we reached a historic milestone in our war against the coronavirus. Over 1 million Americans have now been tested, more than any other country by far, not even close and tested accurately. And I think what Id like to do is ask Secretary Azar, whos done a fantastic job to come up and just say a few words about the fact that we reached substantially now, more than 1 million tests. Please. Thank you Alex. Thank you very much. Thank you. Id like to ask Dr. Hahn come up FTA because we have some really good stuff. First of all, the numbers have been incredible on testing, but in the days ahead were going to go even faster and we have something from Abbott Labs which is right here and thats a five minute test, highly accurate. I maybe can show that as we listen to our FDA commissioner, the job hes done in the approval process. We talked about the chloroquine and the hydroxychloroquine just now. I thought that Id mentioned it but Alex has already done that, but we have that now under test with 1,100 people in New York and it was only the fast approval by FDA that allowed us to do that. It was a really rapid approval. And Dr., please say a few words. This is the first one on the line of the five minute test from Abbott. Great job. Really great job. Thank you, Steve. So the pharmaceutical company , has been working with us very closely. And as Alex mentioned, a little bit, 30 million doses of the hydroxychloroquine to the United States government. Its been given. And Bayer has donated 1 million doses of the chloroquine, which will soon be distributed to states and state health officials around the country. Teva Pharmaceuticals is also donating 6 million doses of hydroxychloroquine to US hospitals. 6 million doses. So the private sector as youd say, Steve, its been amazing whats happened. Really amazing. And were going to introduce you to some of the greatest business executives in the world today, no matter where you go. And theyre going to say a little bit about what theyre doing. And then we have so many more.  The FDA has also authorized the materials, N95 respirator mask sterilization kits. Its an incredible thing. Ive been asking why are we throwing these masks away? You look at some of these masks and theyre significant pieces of equipment that I say, how come you throw them away? Why arent they using sterilization techniques? And I got a call from Mike DeWine, the governor of Ohio. And hes a tremendous guy, tremendous governor. And he said, we have a company named  and theyre having a hard time getting approval from the FDA. And I called up Dr. Hahn and within a very short period of time, they got the approval. Steve, we really appreciate it. I want to thank Mike and I want to thank Steve. And theyre going to be able, each machine now, can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. Now think of that. Each machine can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. Itll be just like a new one. It could go up to about 20 times for each mask.  Each mask can go through this process 20 times. They have two in Ohio, one in New York, and one will soon be shipped to Seattle, Washington, and also to Washington D.C. So thats going to make a tremendous difference on the masks. This morning I spoke to our nations governors to help each state get the medical supplies they need. Yesterday, Vice President Mike Pence asked our nations hospitals to begin reporting total bed capacity, ICU bed capacity, ventilator capacity, and vital medical supply levels on a daily basis. And Mike, thank you for the great job. Thank you very much.  In New York, the 2,900 bed hospital under construction, which is now completed. They completed it in three days. You might say three and a half days, at the Javits Center, will be completed today. When you look  So theyre going up, I think were going to be adding some more beds which will be completed today. Weve opened up  Whoops, there goes our box and my hairs blowing around and its mine. The one thing you cant get away with if its not yours you got a problem if youre President. A nearly 3000 medical beds will become operational. The US Navy ship Comfort also arrived today equipped with 12 operating rooms and 1000 hospital beds. Work has begun on additional temporary hospital sites including a 600 bed capacity nursing home facility in Brooklyn and numerous floors of a high rise building on Wall Street. Its been really a pretty amazing what theyve done, the Army Corps of Engineers, what theyve done.  They just completed, think of it, a 2,900 bed hospital in New York in just about three days, maybe four days. And the whole citys talking about it. On top of that, we floated in a great ship, which is going to be a thousand rooms, which is being used for patients outside of what were focused on and that will free up a lot of rooms for what were focused on. So its been great. The Army Corps of Engineers is awarded contracts for the construction of alternate care facilities also. At the State University at Stony Brook, State University Old Westbury and the Westchester Community Center, were sending 60 ambulances to New York City today. We have a total of 60 were getting some additional ones with up to 190 more to follow at different locations.  To date, FEMA has obligated more than $1.3 billion dollars in federal support to the state of New York. Were spending a lot of money in New York. Its a hotbed, theres no question about it. And were spending a lot of time, effort on New York, New Jersey. Spoke with governor Cuomo a lot, spoke with governor Murphy a lot in New Jersey, and were really getting the job done. People are very impressed and Im very impressed by the people in FEMA, the people in the Army Corps of Engineers, because what theyve done, Ive never seen anybody doing anything like it.  In addition to the 8,100 ventilators that weve already delivered, over the next 48 hours, were delivering more than 1000. 400 ventilators are going to Michigan very shortly. 300 going to New Jersey, 150 ventilators to Illinois, 150 to Louisiana and 50 to Connecticut. FEMA and HHS already delivered 11.6 million N95 respirators, 26 million surgical masks, 5.3 million face shields, 4.4 million surgical gowns and 22 million gloves. And I dont know if you just saw, it just came over the wires that Ford just announced, just a little while ago, that they will produce along with General Electric Healthcare, 50,000 ventilators, and theyre going to be doing it in less than 100 days.  And top of that, we have other companies that are doing ventilators, including General Motors, but we have a nine other companies doing ventilators. As we outpace what we need, were going to be sending them to Italy, were going to be sending them to France. Were going to be sending them to Spain, where they have tremendous problems and other countries as we can. But the fact that were doing so many so quickly is a tribute to our great companies. More than 14,000 National Guard members have been activated and can help supplement state and local   Have been activated and can help supplement state and local efforts to distribute personal protective equipment where were sending a lot. We have plane loads coming in. We have 51 loads from various locations all around the world and theyre landing. We had our first big cargo plane land this morning and were getting it from all over the world and were also sending things that we dont need to other parts. I just spoke to the Prime Minister of Italy and we have additional capacity. We have additional product that we dont need. Were going to be sending approximately a hundred million dollars worth of things, of surgical and medical and hospital things to Italy and Giuseppe was very, very happy. I will tell you that they havent a very hard time.  Joining us this afternoon are CEOs of the great American companies that are fulfilling their patriotic duty by producing or donating medical equipment to help meet our most urgent needs. What theyre doing is incredible and these are great companies. Darius Adamczyk of Honeywell, you know that, and Darius has been somebody that Ive dealt with in the past and hes a great leader of a great company.  Debra Waller of Jockey International. A friend of mine, Mike Lindell of MyPillow. Boy, do you sell those pillows? Thats unbelievable what you do. David Taylor of Procter and Gamble and Greg Hayes of United Technologies Corporation and I just want to tell all of you that Americas very grateful to you and what youve done. Amazing job youve done and we thank you very much.  Id like you to come up and say a couple of words if you might about your companies. Mike, come on up. Come on up fellas. Please come on up. You have to say what youre doing because its been really incredible. Go ahead, Mike. Thank you, Mike. Please come on up. I did not know he was going to do that but hes a friend of mine and I do appreciate it. Thank you, Mike, very much. Please. Fantastic. Thank you. Normally Id shake his hand but were not supposed to do that anymore. So thats okay. Great job. Thank you to Honeywell. Please, go ahead. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Fantastic. Great company.  Those a great companies. Thank you very much. Id like to ask Seema to come up and say a few words about what youre doing and whats happening and how positive its been. I really appreciate it. Come on up, Seema Verma. Thank you very much. You were fantastic , and youre doing a great job. So we are in the midst of something that is very difficult but we are going to win. Its just a question of when. We want to do it as quickly as possible. We want to have as few deaths as possible and we will meet again tomorrow for some statistics and some updates as to where we are, where we think were going, and timing. I think timing is going to be very important because we have to get our country back. We have to get our country back to where it was and maybe beyond where it was because weve learned so much, but we will have lost a lot of people and in many ways they hear us.  And if you look at whats happening with our medical professionals, its a danger there. Theyre warriors. Men and women are doing a job the likes of which I dont think anyones ever seen. I see them coming out of planes today going into New York, going into the most dangerous locations, dangerous areas. And they go in there and they just want to do the job. And you see the numbers, you see the numbers, I see the numbers. I have some friends that are unbelievably sick. We thought they were going in for a mild stay and in one case, hes unconscious in a coma. And you say, how did that happen?  So I just want to thank all of the great professionals, men and women, doctors and nurses and paramedics and fast responders and law enforcement. By the way, if you look at New York and you see the effect that this had on law enforcement, its been incredible. These are great people, firefighters, great people. Theyre helping in so many different ways. So thank you very much. And if youd like, well take a few questions. John, please. Theyll be staying, and we may add a few more, but the guidelines will be very much as they are, maybe even toughened up a little bit, but theyre having a big impact. They are having a tremendous impact and were starting to see it. And thats the key, were starting to see the impact that theyre having. Well, I think that some are ramping up to a level that theyre not going to have to, John, and I think that we also have kept in reserve. We have almost 10,000 ventilators in our line. Weve held back just because we did the stockpile, we didnt want to give them because we dont know where the emergency it hits so fast. It comes so quickly, and we have 10,000. Were probably going to send some of them now. Weve been sending a lot to Michigan and various other states. Well probably send some additional ones to Michigan. New Yorks been doing very well, but we can add some more to New York. Were adding them to the areas that are having a problem.  Even Alabama, all of a sudden a flared up a little bit as you saw over the last couple of days and well send them down to Alabama. So we have 10,000, we kept them for this very specific purpose. It sounds like a lot, but its not when you think about it, but were making a lot and when you see, were talking about hundreds of thousands being made in a very short period of time because if you look at what just so we have now 10 companies at least making the ventilators. And we say go ahead because honestly, other countries really, theyll never be able to do it. Its a complex piece of equipment and its big and expensive. Yes. I do think so. I think were going to be in very good shape, and we had a great call today with the governors and they were, I actually said, I hope that the media is listening to this call, because it was a really good call and that was randomly selected largely Democrats and Republicans in there. I think for the most part they were saying thank you for doing a great job and we discussed that at the end of the call. So really, people are very happy with what were doing. Now the circumstances are so terrible because of whats going on, but I think theyre very impressed by the Federal government.  I watched that beautiful ship floating in today into, weeks ahead of schedule, almost four weeks ahead of schedule into New York Harbor, Comfort. And I watched the Mercy floating in to Los Angeles a week ago, almost a week ago. And they are stocked. They are really ready to go. Theyre stocked with both talent and tremendous amounts of equipment and the Navy and everybody else involved, they got it ready so fast. Its just incredible what they can do. Theyve geared up. Thats why I mean, I am so impressed by the people involved. Mike and I were talking about it before, the level of genius to put it all together so quickly. A month ago nobody ever heard of this. Nobody had any idea that Mercy was being maintained.  It was in maintenance for a month. And when they heard we needed it, and I was surprised, they said, Sir, were ready to go. I said, What do you mean? Youre not going to be ready for three weeks? No sir, were all ready to go. It was incredible. And weve had many instances like this. I think the building of the hospital, 2,900 beds in a matter of days, a few days is just incredible. Governor Cuomo was impressed and Gavin Newsome was impressed by what weve been doing with Gavin in California in Los Angeles area in particular, but really San Francisco, all over, all over California. When you look at what were doing with Michigan, were getting along very well with Michigans, great place. Were sending a lot of things to Michigan because thats becoming a hotbed, especially a specific area as you know, its become very hot.  Its become, I dont know, could even at some point supersede, but its got to be taken care of. So the relationship we have with the governors, I just wish you could because we took a lot of calls from a lot of different states and I wish you could have heard, even a thing where the governor of Ohio calls where he has a company that does the sterilization, but they have a problem because its not going quickly at the FDA. And I call up Steve and Steve comes and he said, Well get it done. And they checked it and they got it done almost immediately. And originally they were approving it for 10,000 masks and then it was supposed to be for 80 and they ultimately approved it for 120,000. I mean, its a tremendous number.  And I kept wondering, why arent they sterilizing these masks? I assumed maybe you couldnt do it, but then Id look at them and theyd look like its not cloth. Its something that looks like it could be sterilized and thats what theyve done and thats the machine that is over there actually. They have a piece of the machine over there. I wont bother showing it to you. And this is incredible when you talk about five minutes, 15 minutes and highly accurate and not nearly as disturbing to do as the other tests. So weve just gotten better. Were doing things that nobody else ever thought of. Please. Well, were letting the governors do in their states pretty much what they want with our supervision and they consult with us in all cases. Some go further than others as you know. I mean, I could give you plenty of examples, but Im not going to do that because we never want to be controversial, but some of the governors have taken it a step further-  and people are questioning that, but look, staying at home with respect to what were talking about doesnt bother me at all. People should be staying at home. Thats what we want.  please. . Well, I think what were doing is were trying to, as a group, governors and thats Republicans and Democrats, were just working together to solve this problem. What youre mentioning has been going on for a long time and its a sad event, a lot of sad events in this country, but what were doing is now were working on the virus, were working on that hidden enemy and I think were doing a great job on, as good a job as you can possibly do. When when Tony and Deborah came up with numbers yesterday to say that if we did nothing, you could lose 2.2, up to 2., maybe beyond, I dont know, maybe beyond, but 2.2 million people if we did nothing. And I cant tell you what the unfortunate final toll is going to be, but its going to be a very small fraction of that.  So were doing an awfully good job I think with what were doing. Please go ahead. Please. Well, weve talked about it. Obviously there are some parts of the country that are in far deeper trouble than others. There are other parts that frankly are not in trouble at all. So hopefully, were going to be able to keep it that way by doing what were doing. So we talked about quarantine as you know, the other day a group came to me and they wanted to do the quarantine and I said, Lets think about it. And we did it, we studied it. And by the time the evening came, it just was something that was very unwieldy, very tough to enforce and something we didnt want to do. But we did advisory. And I think thats doing well. I mean, I look at the streets, you look at New York where theres I looked down Fifth Avenue today, they were showing a shot of Fifth Avenue in Primetime and there was almost nobody on Fifth Avenue.  Ive never seen that before. There was no car, there was no anything. So I think the people of this country have done an incredible job. If we do that, we will let you know. But its pretty unlikely I would think at this time. Yes. Please come. Thank you very much. Thanks. It is amazing. You look at Louisiana and for a long time it was just staying at-  For a long time, it was just staying at nothing. And then all of a sudden, I look one day and I see a lot and a lot and a lot, and then it explodes. And now, were working very carefully and very powerfully with them. Were building hospitals, were building a lot of different things for Louisiana. So, its very important. Yeah, please go ahead. Yeah. Were prepared, I hope it doesnt happen. Doctor, would you like to say something about that? I hope it doesnt happen, but were certainly prepared. Okay. Please, go ahead. Yeah, very interesting, I saw it. Well, we havent discussed it to that extent, but its certainly something we could discuss. Were getting certainly the number of masks that you need. We are in the process of talking about things I saw his suggestion on that, so well take a look at it. For a period of time, not forever. I mean, we want our country back. Were not going to be wearing masks forever, but it could be for a short period of time after we get back into gear. People could I could see something like that happening for a period of time. But I would hope it would be a very limited period of time, doctors. Theyll come back and say, for the rest of our lives we have to wear masks. Well, the GPS, thats the very severe idea. Ive been hearing about it, GPS. So, what happens? A siren goes off if you get too close to somebody. Thats pretty severe. But hes somebody who was with me for a long time. He worked They did a great job at FDA. So, were going to take a look. I just received it a little while ago, he sent it over. So very good. Go ahead. Lets give it a shot. Here we go. , it will go away. And I do want them to stay calm. And we are doing a great job. If you look at those individual statements, theyre all true. Stay calm, it will go away. You know it is going away and it will go away, and were going to have a great victory. And its people like you and CNN that say things like that, that Its why people just dont want to listen to CNN anymore. You could ask a normal question. The statements I made are, I want to keep the country calm, I dont want panic in the country. I could cause panic much better than even you. I could do much I would make you look like a minor league player. But you know what? I dont want to do that. I want to have our country be calm and strong and fight and win. And it will go away.  And it is incredible the job that all of these people are doing, putting them all together, the job that theyre doing. I am very proud of the job theyre doing, that Mike Pence is doing, that the task force has done, that Honeywell and Procter & Gamble and Mike and all of these people have done. Im very proud. Its almost a miracle. And it is, the way its all come together. And instead of asking a nasty, snarky question like that, you should ask a real question. And other than that, Im going to go to somebody else. Please, go ahead. Please. Well, I expressed what was told to me by a tremendous power in the business. He said that at a New York hospital, for a long period of time, he was giving 10,000, maybe maximum 20,000 masks, over a short time. And all of a sudden, hes giving 300,000. And I said, No matter how bad this is, could that be possible? He said, No. So theres only a couple of that could happen. Is it going out the back door? And Ive reported it to the city, and let the city take a look at it. But when you go from 10,000 masks to 300,000 masks, Mike, over the same period of time, theres something going on. Now, Im not making any charges, but when everyones looking for masks And by the way, thats another thing, were making a lot of masks and the sterilization process is going to save a lot of time and a lot of masks.  But, when you have the biggest distributor of product that distributes to many of the big hospitals and hospital chains, and he brings up a statistic like that And I know youre trying to make a big deal out of it, but you shouldnt be. You should actually go over to the hospital and find out why. You shouldnt be asking me. Im just saying, thats the way it is. You should go over there as a great reporter. I have no idea who you are, but thats okay. You should go over there. Go to the hospital and find out, how come you used to get 10,000 masks and you had a full hospital? New York City always full. And how come now you have 300,000 masks? Despite the virus and all, you have three How do you go from 10 to 300,000? And this is very serious stuff. I mean, I could see from 10 to 20 or from 10 to 40 or 50 or something, but how do you go from 10 to 300,000 masks? So what I think you should do as a Im sure youre a wonderful investigative reporter, you should go to the hospital and find out why. Steve, please. Well, its so bad for the economy. But the economy is number two on my list. First, I want to save a lot of lives. Were going to get the economy back. I think the economy is going to come back very fast. Steve is just asking about the economy, whats it like? We basically shut down our country. And we did that in order to keep people separated, keep people apart. Theyre not working in offices, theyre not in airplanes together. Weve really shut it down. And 150/151 other countries are pretty much shut down. But here with the We have the greatest economy in the world. We have the greatest economy in the history of our country. And I had to go from doing a great job for three years, to shutting it down. But you know what? Were going to build it up and were going to build it up rapidly. And I think in the end, well be stronger for it. We learned a lot.  And I have to say, weve had great relationships with a lot of countries. China sent us some stuff which was terrific. Russia sent us a very large plane load of things, medical equipment, which was very nice. Other countries sent us things that I was very surprised at. Very happily surprised. We learned a lot. Were learning a lot. And were also learning, that the concept of borders is very important, Steve. Its very important. Having borders is very important. But, we have done an incredible job. The economy is going to come back. My focus is saving lives. Thats the only focus I could have. Were going to bring the economy back and well bring it back fast. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Please. Yeah. Well, its very much on par. Look- Per capita. We have areas of country thats very wide. I know South Korea better than anybody, its a very tight You know how many people are in Seoul? You know how big the city of Seoul is? 38 million people. Thats bigger than anything we have. 38 million people all tightly wound together. We have vast farmlands. We have vast areas where they dont have much of a problem. In some cases, they have no problem whatsoever. We have done more tests. Well, I didnt talk about per capita. We have done more tests by far than any country in the world, by far. Our testing is also better than any country in the world. And when you looking at that, as simple as that looks, thats something thats a game changer. And every country wants that, every country. So, rather than asking a question like that, you should congratulate the people that have done this testing. Because, we inherited this administration, inherited a broken system, a system that was obsolete, a system that didnt work. It was okay for a tiny small group of people. But, once you got beyond that, it didnt work. We have built an incredible system to the fact, where we have now done more tests than any other country in the world. And now the technology is really booming.  I just spoke to Well, I spoke to a lot Im not going to even mention. I spoke to a number of different testing companies today. And the job that theyve done and the job that theyre doing, is incredible. But when Abbott comes out and does this so quickly, its really unreal. In fact, one company, I have to say, that stands out in the job, and I think I can say this, I dont want to insult anybody else, but Roche. Roche, is been incredible in the testing job theyve done. And theyre ramping it up exponentially, its up. And you should be saying, congratulations, instead of asking a really snarky question, because I know exactly what you mean by that. You should be saying, congratulations to the men and women who have done this job, who have inherited a broken testing system and who have made it great. And if you dont say it, Ill say it. I want to congratulate all of the people, you have done a fantastic job. And we will see you all tomorrow, thank you very much. Thank you."
"Thank you very much everyone. Our country is in the midst of a great national trial, unlike any we have ever faced before. You all see it. You see it probably better than most. Were at war with a deadly virus. Success in this fight will require the full absolute measure of our collective strength, love, and devotion. Its very important. Each of us has the power through our own choices and actions to save American lives and rescue the most vulnerable among us. Thats why we really have to do what we all know is right. Every citizen is being called upon to make sacrifices. Every business is being asked to fulfill its patriotic duty. Every community is making fundamental changes to how we live, work and interact each and every day, and I wouldnt be surprised to see this going on long into the future when this virus is gone and defeated.  Some of the things were doing now will be very good practice for the future, including for not getting the flu, which is very devastating also. So some of what were learning now will live on into the future. I really believe that shaking hands or not shaking hands, washing hands all the time, staying a little apart. 15 days ago we published our nationwide guidelines to slow the spread of the virus. On Sunday, I announced that this campaign will be extended until April 30th. In a few moments, Dr. Birx will explain the data that formed the basis for our decision to extend the guidelines and Dr. Fauci will explain why its absolutely critical for the American people to follow the guidelines for the next 30 days. Its a matter of life and death, frankly. Its a matter of life and death.  I know our citizens will rise to the occasion and they already have sacrificed a lot. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. Were the greatest economy in the world. We had the best unemployment numbers and employment numbers that weve ever had by far, and in one instant we said we have no choice but to close it up. Just as Americans have always done, they will do a job like few have seen before and theyre proud to do it. And I see that theres a great pride going on right now. Before we hear from our experts, we have a few other announcements.  Today, the Treasury Department and Small Business Administration announced further details on the paycheck protection program, which was made possible by the $2 trillion relief bill I signed into law last week. Nearly $350 billion in loans will soon be available through lending partners to help small businesses meet payroll and other expenses for up to two months. These loans will be forgiven as long as businesses keep paying their workers. This includes sole proprietors and independent contractors. Applications will be accepted starting this Friday, April 3rd. So on Friday, April 3rd, thats when it begins.  Earlier today, I spoke with leading internet and phone providers who are doing a tremendous job of keeping our internet and the lines of communication flowing under very strongly increase strain the businesses more than anybody has seen before because everyones inside. Theyre all making calls. Among the leaders I spoke to were Hans Vestberg a Verizon Communications, Randall Stephenson of AT&T, Mike Sievert of T-Mobile, Thomas Rutledge of Charter Communications, Brian Roberts of Comcast, John Malone of Liberty Media, Dexter Goie of Altice, Michel Combes of Sprint, and Aryeh Bourkoff of LionTree. Also Pat Esser of Cox Communications and Jeffrey Storey of CenturyLink. Theyre doing an incredible job. If you look at other continents, if you look at Europe, they went a different route than we did and a much different route. We were talking about that just a little while ago, and they are having tremendous problems.  Other countries are having problems, other continents are having problems, but with business at a level that nobodys seen it before on the internet, its holding up incredibly well. And they expect that to continue no matter what happened, and no matter how much more gains, which it can gain more than it already is, I dont know because theyre setting records. Let me also update you on the distribution of urgency needed resources and supplies and we have a lot of numbers. Im going to let Mike Pence speak to that in a little while, but were giving massive amounts of medical equipment and supplies to the 50 states. We also are holding back quite a bit. We have almost 10,000 ventilators that we have ready to go. We have to hold them back because the surge is coming, and its coming pretty strong, and we want to be able to immediately move it into place without going and taking it.  So were ready to go. And weve also distributed, I just spoke with governor of Michigan, had a great conversation and we sent a large number of ventilators to Michigan. Were sending them to Louisiana. We sent additional ventilators to New York, additional ventilators to New Jersey. And I will say in New York, FEMA is supplying 250 ambulances and 500 EMTs to help respond to the increasing case load. Thats a lot of ambulances. In California, the Army Corps of engineers is developing eight facilities to expand hospital capacity up to 50,000 beds, 50,000. And had a great conversation last night with Gavin Newsom, hes doing a really good job. Were in constant communications. The USNS Mercy hospital ship is now operational. Its in Los Angeles and receiving patients. And in New York, as you know, the Comfort, everybody watched that. Its in place and it will be in a very short while receiving large numbers of patients over a thousand rooms and 12 operating rooms.  FEMA has also provided a hundred travel trailers to assist with housing needs and were ordering hundreds more. In Michigan, FEMA will soon deliver in addition to the ventilators, 250 bed, field, hospital, and Army Corps of engineers is evaluating locations to build alternate care facilities. So were doing a field hospital in Michigan of 250 beds and we may be doubling it up soon depending on the need. Theyre doing a good job with beds in Michigan, but they may need more than the 250, so FEMA and the Army Corps of engineers are prepared to go there quickly and get it done. In Louisiana, were delivering two field hospitals to provide 500 new hospital beds. Ive been talking with the governor, John Bel Edwards and the Army Corps of engineers has been really doing incredible work establishing 3000 alternate care site at the New Orleans Convention Center, which will be operational, believe it or not this week.  So were doing the 3000 bed alternate care site and were also doing a 500 bed new hospital, and thats in Louisiana, which really got hit. It started off very late and it was looking good, and then all of a sudden it just reared up, came from nowhere. In addition to the supplies were delivering, were also giving hospitals the flexibility to use new facilities, including surgical care centers to care for hospital patients who are not infected. For example, I know that many expectant mothers are understandably concerned about exposing their newborn babies to the virus and they should be/ with our action yesterday, hospitals now have the authority to create special areas for mothers to deliver their babies in a very safe and healthy environment. Totally separate.  Over the past two months, the US State Department has organized one of the largest and most complex international evacuation operations in American history. Mike Pompeo is working around the clock along with Ambassador OBrien. Since January 29th, we have successfully repatriated over 25,000 Americans from more than 50 countries where they were literally stuck. In some cases, locked in. And I salute the incredible public servants at the Department of State as well as their counterparts at DHS and HHS who have played such an important role in doing this. You probably read about the young people in Peru, and young people in Brazil, and they were absolutely stuck and we got them out. Almost everybody is out now back home with their parents, their wives, their husbands.  I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead. Were going to go through a very tough two weeks. And then hopefully as the experts are predicting, as I think a lot of us are predicting I after having studied it so hard, youre going to start seeing some real light at the end of the tunnel, but this is going to be a very painful, very, very painful two weeks. When you look and see at night the kind of death thats been caused by this invisible enemy, its incredible. I was watching last night, Governor Murphy of New Jersey say 29 people died today, meaning yesterday, and others talking about numbers far greater, but you get to know a state, I know New Jersey so well. And you hit 29 people and hundreds in other locations, hundreds in other states. And this is going to be a rough two week period.  As a nation, we face a difficult few weeks as we approach that really important day when were going to see things get better all of a sudden. And its going to be like a burst of light. I really think and I hope that our strength will be tested and our endurance will be tried, but America will answer with love and courage and ironclad resolve. This is the time for all Americans to come together and do our part. I appreciate a lot of the media. Weve had a lot of really good things said. I think only good things can be said when you look at the job thats been done. I just spoke with Franklin Graham who is an extraordinary person and a Samaritans Purse has been like so many others just been amazing and so fast. They did it so fast. Hes been doing that for a long time, but I think people are really seeing what they have done. Franklin Graham, very special family.  As we send plane loads of masks and gloves and supplies to the communities battling the plague, and thats what it is. Its a plague. We also send our prayers. We pray for the doctors and the nurses. For the paramedics and the truck drivers, and the police officers, and the sanitation workers. And above all, the people fighting for their lives in New York and all across our land. I watched as doctors and nurses one into a certain hospital in Elmhurst this morning. I know Elmhurst, Queens, I grew up right next to it. I know the hospital very well, been seeing it all my life, my young life.  And I will tell you that to see the scenes of trailers out there and what theyre doing with those trailers, theyre freezers and nobody could even believe it. And I spoke to some of my friends, they cant believe what theyre seeing. And I watched the doctors and the nurses walking into that hospital this morning. Its like military people going into battle, going into war. The bravery is incredible, and I just have to take my hat. I would take my hat if I were wearing a hat, Id rip that hat off so fast and I would say You people are just incredible. They really are. Theyre very brave. Theyre going in and they dont know, you have lots of things flying around in the air, you dont know what youre touching. Is it safe?  And you also see where your friends are going to the hospital and you say How is he doing? Two days later and they say, Sir, hes unconscious. Or Hes in a coma. So things are happening that weve never seen before in this country. And with all of that being said, the countrys come together like Ive never seen it before, and we will prevail, we will win, and hopefully it will be in a relatively short period of time. With that, Id like to ask Dr. Birx to come up and show you some of the latest data that has been, I think brilliantly put together. And right after that Im going to ask Dr. Fauci to speak, and Mike Pence is going to give you some of the recent events that have taken place and some of the statistics that we have that I think will be very interesting here. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you. Thank you. Well, are they reasonably good? I guess we could say that, Id like to have maybe Dr. Fauci or Deb come up and say, but I have numbers, but Id rather have them say the numbers if you dont mind. Its a big question. But some of the cities are doing very well, as you see, very well at this early stage, but the number, the doctor said 100,000. All numbers between a 100,000 and 200,000 maybe even slightly more, but we would hope that we could keep it under. Well, I would, but you see, New York, I believe the blue is New York, New York is having a much harder time than other of the cities. Certain cities are doing Actually, you look down here, an incredible job. They were early. They were very, very firm and theyve done an incredible job. This is New Jersey, New York. This is I think theyre doing very well with the  Yes. I can only say that were doing more than anybody in the world by far. We are testing highly accurate tests. These are tests that work, as you know, many tests are being sent to countries that are broken. Well, every day we get, and the word is exponential, we are getting more and more and more, and now we have the new tests that you saw yesterday. Thats going to be rolled out, I think, tomorrow or the next day, and thats going to take only a few minutes, literally a few minutes to see the result and its a highly accurate result. I mean the tests were given out not by us, by other countries, where there was a 50/50 chance that it was wrong. What kind of a test is that? These are highly accurate tests, but the new tests that are coming out are very quick and they were just developed. Abbott Labs did the one yesterday. So were doing more than anybody in the world by far and theyre very accurate tests, and were getting a lot of information from those tests.  And theyre not being reported. And its up to the people if they dont send them back. I mean, they use them. They dont send a back. Doctor, go ahead, please. Well, it says- It says between 100 and 200,000. It says 100 to 200,000, anything, its a lot of people. Right? Its a lot of people. Well, you didnt ask the other question. What would have happened, because this is the question that Ive been asking Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx for a long time, and theyve been working on this for a long time. The question is what would have happened if we did nothing? Because there was a group that said lets just ride it out. Lets ride it out. What would have happened? And that number comes in at 1.5 to 1.6 million people, up to 2.2 and even beyond. So thats 2.2 million people wouldve died if we did nothing. We just carried on our life. Now I dont think that wouldve been possible because you would have had people dying all over the place. This would not have been a normal life. How many people have even seen anybody die? You would have seen people dying on airplanes. You wouldve been seeing people dying in hotel lobbies. You would have seen death all over.  So I think from a practical standpoint, that couldnt have been carried out too far. But if you did nothing on the higher side, the number would be 2.2 and maybe even more, and on the lower side, 1.6 million people. Just to end the last topic , I think I can say this because I spoke to Dr. Birx before, and to Dr. Fauci, for whatever reason, New York got off to a very late start, and you see what happens when you get off to a late start. New Jersey got off, and I think both governors are doing an excellent job, but they got off to a very late start. When you look at Washington state, if you remember, that all started in a very confined nursing home, and you had 20 some odd people, I believe dying in one home. That doesnt mean it escaped that home, and so they have a very different statistic than other states. But I mean, I remember it very vividly, the nursing home in Washington state, where you had many people dying every day, people were dying in the one exact location, so they were able to keep that relatively speaking into that location. They are very sobering. Yeah, when you see 100,000 people and thats at a minimum number. Now what were looking at, and as many people as were talking about, whatever we can do under that number and substantially under that number, weve done that through really great mitigation. Weve done that through a lot of a very dedicated American people. That 100,000 is, according to modeling, a very low number. In fact, when I first saw the number, and I asked this a while ago, they said its unlikely youll be able to attain that. I think were doing better than that. Now I think, we have to see, but I think were doing better than that because as John said, that would be a lot of lives taking place over a relatively short period of time. But think of what would have happened if we didnt do anything.  I mean, Ive had many friends, business people, people with great, actually common sense, they said, Why dont we ride it out? A lot of people have said. A lot of people that thought about it, ride it out, dont do anything, just ride it out, and think of it as the flu. But its not the flu. Its vicious. When you send a friend to the hospital and you call up to find out how is he doing, it happened to me, where he goes to the hospital and he says goodbye, hes sort of a tough guy, a little older, a little heavier than hed like to be frankly, and you call up the next day, hows he doing, and hes in a coma. This is not the flu. So we would have seen things had we done nothing. But for a long while, a lot of people were asking that question, I think, right?  I was asking it also. I mean, a lot of people were saying, Well, lets just ride it out. This is not to be ridden out, because then you wouldve been looking potentially 2.2 million people or more, 2.2 million people in a relatively short period of time. If you remember, they were looking at that concept, its a concept I guess, you know its concept if you dont mind death, a lot of death, but they were looking at that in the UK, remember? They were very much looking at it and all of a sudden they went hard the other way, because they started seeing things that werent good. So they put themselves in a little bit of a problem. Now, Boris tested positive and I hope hes going to be fine, but in the UK, they were looking at that, and they have a name for it, but we wont even go by the name. But it would have been, it would have been very catastrophic, I think, if that wouldve happened.  But that was something that everybody was talking about, Steve. Like, just dont do anything, dont do anything. Forget about everything. Just ride it out. They used the expression, ride it out. We would have had at a minimum 1.5, 1.6, but you would have had perhaps a more than 2.2 million people dying in a very short period of time. And that would have been a number that the likes of which weve never seen.  So now when we look at our package that we just approved for $2 trillion, all of a sudden it seems very reasonable. Right? When youre talking about 2 million lives, all of a sudden it seems very reasonable. I must say, a lot of people that have been seeing the more advanced numbers, because these are much more advanced numbers now. You know when you first started, we didnt know, and this was a different kind of a virus, and nobody knew that much about it, even the experts, you dont really know where its going. But then they see what goes on in Italy, and they see what goes on in Spain, and you see France is having a very hard time, and other countries having a very, very hard time. But once they see whats going on, they start making projections. So I hope theyre going to be very high projections. But based on everything else, that would be the number. Lets see if we can do much better than that. I hope we can. Yeah, John. Thats right.  Well, its this way. You know, you can use a scarf. A lot of people have scarfs and you can use a scarf. Scarf would be very good, and my feeling is if people want to do it, theres certainly no harm to it. I would say do it, but use a scarf if you want, rather than going out and getting a mask or whatever. Were making millions and millions of masks, but we want them to go to the hospitals. I mean, one of the things that Dr. Fauci told me today is we dont want them competing. We dont want everybody competing with the hospitals where you really need them. So you can use scarfs. You can use something else over your face. It doesnt have to be a mask, but its not a bad idea, at least for a period of time. I mean, eventually youre not going to want to do that. Youre not going to have to do that. This is going to be gone. Itll be gone, hopefully gone for a long time.  Please. Well, were going to find out. We hope its enough. We hope its enough. We hope were at a level where we could say, Lets go because our country wants to get back to work. We really want to get back. Everybody wants to get back to work. Now, I could ask the doctors to answer that question, but we discus that all the time. What do you think? Well, I think weve been very harsh. I mean, you look at the streets. I looked at 5th Avenue today on camera, and I didnt see anybody walking on the street, and Im used to watching that street, you cant see the asphalt, you cant see the concrete, and you look and theres nobody. There was one car. It looked like it mightve been a taxi cab and it was in a time of the morning that thered normally thered be a lot of people. I mean, I think the mitigation has been very strong. Please. I didnt do anything about tariff payments. I dont know whos talking about tariff payments. They keep talking about tariff payments and we havent done that. Chinas paying us. We made a deal with China. Under the deal, theyre paying us 25% on $250 billion and they pay it. And I spoke with President Jinping the other day and we didnt mention that. We had a great conversation, by the way, a really productive conversation having to do with many things. Most of it was on the virus, but you know, were not talking Who are you with? Who are you with? Who are you with? Oh. Yeah, I know, its an incorrect report. Well, that might be, but Im going to have to approve the plan , but one thing I will tell you, I approve everything and they havent presented it to me, so therefore its false reporting, so therefore dont do the story. If were going to do something, Id be glad to let you know. Theres nothing wrong with doing it, but, well let you know. Yeah, please. A couple of back, then well get back to you, John. Different kind of a state, also great Governor, knows exactly what hes doing, has a very strong view on it, and we have spoken to Ron. Mike, you want to just to tell him a little bit about that. So, unless we see something obviously wrong, were going to let these governors good. Now, its obviously wrong, I mean, people can make things, they can make a decision that we think is so far out that its wrong, we will stop that. But in the case of-  So far out that its wrong, we will stop that. But in the case of Governor DeSantis, theres two thoughts to it, and two very good thoughts to it, and hes been doing a great job in every respect, so well see what happens. But we only would exercise if we thought somebody was very obviously  Go ahead. Your turn. We did. We had a call that was probably about that, the oil prices, because as you know, Russia and Saudi Arabia are going at it, and theyre really going at it, and by going at it to the extent that they are, the oil has dropped to a point where, look, its the greatest tax cut weve ever given. If you look at it that way, because people are going to be paying 99 cents for a gallon of gasoline. Its incredible. In a lot of ways, its going to help the airlines, but at the same time, its hurtful to one of our biggest industries. Thats the oil industry. Its really, its not even feasible whats going on. So I spoke to President Putin about that. I also spoke to the Crown Prince about that, Saudi Arabia. No, I think, yeah, theyre going to get together and were all going to get together, and were going to see what we can do. Because you dont want to lose an industry. Youre going to lose an industry over it. 1000s and 1000s of jobs. I dont know if you know. Theres oil all over the oceans right now. The boats are all filled. Theyre renting ships. Ships that were dying, that werent doing well, and now thats where theyre storing oil. And theyre sent out to sea, and they sit there for long periods of time. Theres so much oil. In some cases, its probably less valuable than water. In some parts of the world, water is much more valuable.  So weve never seen anything like it. But the two countries are discussing it, and I am joining at the appropriate time, if need be. We had a great talk with President Putin. We had a great talk with the Crown Prince. We also discussed, more so with President Putin in this case, the virus, because Russias being hit pretty hard. And we discussed many things. Trade. We discussed a lot of things with both. But in the case of both, we very much discussed the oil and the oil prices. I mean, you look, its $22, but its really much cheaper than that if you want to negotiate. Nobodys seen that. Thats like from the 1950s. It really is. To think that it was 50, 60, 70, 80, and now its 22. But you know, if you put a good bid in at nine, I think you could probably get what you wanted, right?  John, please. Well, the problem with that one is they had maybe shovel ready jobs, maybe not, but they never used it for the purpose of infrastructure. So far, nobody has been able to find any money that was spent on infrastructure. I want to use it for infrastructure. And one of the reasons Im suggesting it, John, is were paying zero interest. The United States is paying almost zero interest rate. The Federal Reserve lowered the rate, the fed rate. And that and a combination of the fact that everybody wants to be in the United States. You know, we have a dollar thats very strong, and I know that sounds good, but it does make it hard to manufacture and sell outside, because other currencies are falling, and our currency is very strong. Its very, very strong. Proportionately, its through the roof.  So we have a strong dollar. People want to invest in the United States, especially nowadays where theyre looking at safety. They have all of the problems, plus the virus at 151 countries. They all want to come into the United States. And so we have a zero interest rate, essentially. And I said, Wouldnt this be a great time to borrow money at zero interest rate and really build our infrastructure like we can do it? So the plan was, the Republicans had a plan of about 750. I would say They were where? At seven five? The Democrats were a little less than a trillion dollars. The Republicans were a little bit less than that.  And Im suggesting $2 trillion. We redo our roads, our highways, our bridges. We fix up our tunnels, which are many of them in bad shape, like coming into New York, as you know, really bad shape. And we really do a job on our infrastructure, and that doesnt mean were going to do the Green New Deal, because I wont do it. I wont approve it. Were not going to do the Green New Deal and spend 40% of the money on things that people just have fun with. Were going to borrow the money at zero percent interest, so our interest payments would be almost zero, and we can borrow long term. People want to be in the United States. They want to be invested in the United States. Go ahead, Jim. Right, thats a good question. Actually, just the opposite, because were holding back. We have almost 10000. And were holding, because were going to need them over the next couple of weeks as the surge goes on. You see the chart. We havent hit the top yet. And we have to be able to move them immediately. And we cant take them, because its going to be very hard to do that. We cant take them to places that arent needing them. Plus we have requests for ventilators in hospitals and in states and cities that dont need them, in our opinion. They dont need them. They wont need them  for flexibility. We just took 600, and we sent them to different locations today, but we have close to 10000, and well be able to get them. And were all set to march. We have the National Guards, and we have FEMA, and were all set to move them to the places.  So as for your second question, what were going to do is save lives because of it, because otherwise, we would not be able to get to  and we dont know what the hottest spot- In some areas we might, but weve done a great job with ventilators, and were having them made. Unbelievable, we have now 11 companies making ventilators. Now theyll be starting to arrive in the next week, but weve also grabbed a lot of them. Some hospitals had more than they were saying, or at least more than we knew about, which is a good thing, not a bad thing. But we want to be able to have, I guess the word would be flexibility, so that if the surge turns out to be much stronger in Louisiana, which it could, that we can immediately bring 1000 or 2000 to Louisiana. Otherwise, we wouldnt be able to get them. We wouldnt be able to say, Listen, Governor Cuomo in New York, we want to take ventilators away from New York. And theyll say, Well, we cant do that. It would be a disaster. So we have great flexibility.  Now when this surge occurs, if it occurs fairly evenly, well be able to distribute them very quickly before they need them. But we have a reserve right now. Its like having oil reserves, except more valuable, frankly. But we have a reserve right now. And well be able, and we also have a great team of people ready to deliver. They can move them fast. So when we see it going up in a certain state, and Louisiana could be one, and Michigan could be another with Detroit, because Detroit is having a lot of hard times right now. Detroit came out of nowhere, and thats what happens with this. It comes out of nowhere.  So we are ready, Jim, depending on what happens. And we have a stockpile. And thats why its called a stockpile. A lot of the ventilators and a lot of the other equipment, rather than sending it to the stockpile, we had it sent directly to a hospital, to a location, to a place, so we didnt have the cumbersome nature of having it come in unboxed, put in and then deliver it. We have it brought, which theyd never done before. They dont do that. Generally speaking, they dont do that.  But weve had, I think, Mike, weve had tremendous success of doing that. Thats for other items, including ventilators, where its brought to the site that needs it. But we have a good supply of ventilators, and were ready to go. Were all ready. We have trucks ready. We have everything ready, because as were saying, John, this could be a hell of a bad two weeks. This is going to be a very bad two and maybe even three weeks. This is going to be three weeks like we havent seen before. Well, I think the hospitals- Yeah. They are going to be facing a war zone. Thats what it is. Ive heard some of the paramedics and some of the doctors. They said theyd been in war zones. Theyve never seen anything like this. You look at Elmhurst Hospital in Queens. Ive never seen. I mean, I look, I just think its so, because thats a hospital thats near where I grew up. And it is a war zone in a true sense. Yeah, please? They shouldnt be doing that. If that happens, they should be calling us. Look, we have ventilators, but weve distributed 1000s of ventilators. But they shouldnt be doing that. And if they need them that badly, we know. We have pretty good ideas of where theyre going to need them. Some people, frankly, think they need them, and they dont need them. I dont want to mention names, but there are some people that want them, and its really not the right thing. Then you have some people that I guess automatically hoard a little bit. They want to have more than they think they need. But a ventilator is a very precious piece of equipment right now. Its hard to make. It takes a long time to make it. Its complex. Some of them are like the dashboard of an airplane. I mean, theyre very complicated and very expensive machines, and some are much simpler. But were ready to go depending on what happens.  But we have some hospitals in some states that think they need ventilators, and we dont think they do. Now if they do need them, we will have them there before they need them. Well be able to move very quickly. Nothing that Ive heard. I mean, thats the first question I make every morning. I tell you, I call up, you know we have 1100. 1100 in New York right now, and we have other locations where patients, people are taking them. Now the good news is its only three days, and its like a seven or eight day treatment. The good news is we havent heard anything bad. In other words, there have been no catastrophic events. But we havent. Its a little bit too soon to talk about it. It would be a total game changer, John, if that happened. If that happened, it would be a game changer. And we include that in that, and I think in all cases the Z-Pak, you know what the Z-Pak is. So were going to see what happens with the Hydroxychloroquine.   Yeah. Just one second. Steve? Were looking at a lot of them. Were looking at a lot of them. Some show promise. I think maybe the doctor might want to speak about the vaccines, because a lot of Johnson & Johnson is advanced, very advanced. Well see what happens. The one thing with the vaccine is it doesnt help this group, because this group, you need to test a vaccine. The one thing with the drug you just mentioned, right, is that its been out. Its a malaria drug and also an arthritis drug. So its been out there for a long time. Very powerful drug. But its been out there for a long time. So its tested in the sense that you know it doesnt kill you, but you may want to discuss the vaccines for a second, Dr. Fauci. And I have to sit in this. Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin, which is, you take it with it, maybe, if you want, for the infection. I think some medical workers are doing that. Using it, maybe, or getting it prescribed perhaps for another use. But the word is that some are, and some arent. I mean, I think its not a bad idea to do it, but thats up to the doctors. But there is a theory going around that in our country and some other countries, people are taking, that work in the hospitals, that work with the patients, because there is some evidence, and again, its going to have to be proven. Its very early. Were rushing this stuff through. This was supposed to take a long time to be approved, and I prevailed upon the FDA to get it approved immediately on the basis that it was already in the market for a lot of years for another use, malaria mostly. And arthritis, but mostly malaria.  So well see what happens. But there is a theory out there that for the medical worker, Doctor, it may work. It may work. And if you take it, its been out there for a long time. Please, go ahead. About which? Well, its not empty. Let me explain something. What were doing, I thought I said it accurately. I certainly meant to. Rather than having it brought into the stockpile, where appropriate, other than certain things, like we have quite a few of the ventilators, which is not a lot when you look at the whole country, actually. It sounds like a lot, almost 10000, but were trying to have supply sent directly to the states, because we save a big state. We dont want medical supplies coming in to warehouses all over the place, and then we take them from there and bring them to another warehouse. So were having it brought ideally from the manufacturer directly to the hospital or the state where its going.  So were trying to keep it that way as much as possible. Now in some cases we are having it brought. Remember this. We also took over a virtually empty, and I say it again, just like we had no ammunition in the military, and we had virtually no ammunition. Well, we had very little in medical supplies, too, in our stockpile. So for the most part, were trying very hard to have it delivered to the site where they need it. Yeah. Please go ahead. Im going to let the military make that decision. Well, were going to see all about that. Dont worry about our military. You saw the military put up a hospital in three and a half days with 2900 beds, with a lot of beds. Nobodys ever seen anything like it. And by the way, that wasnt the only one. It wasnt just the Javits Center. It was at other locations. And now its Louisiana, and now its New Jersey, and now its other places. One thing that I think is indisputable is when I watched the Army Corps of Engineers, and FEMA working with them, but when I watched the Army Corps of Engineers throw up these hospitals, and theyre complex. I mean, these are incredible buildings, essentially. Tents and various things, but they did it in such a quick, such a short period of time.  And our military is ready like you havent seen, and you know who are the best? The best guests are the different shows are, we watch the shows at night. And I think the best guests that Ive seen in a long time are the military people. And theyve never done it before. Ive watched General Semonite, who I deal with a lot. I say, General, you got to give us two new hospitals in Louisiana. Yes sir. And the next morning, theyre building them at 6:00 in the morning, and theyre up in three days. I think theyre the best. The best guest you have. I guess Im tired of the other guests, in all fairness. Jim, go ahead. Well, Im going to let them answer that. Yeah? Yeah, Im going to let them answer the question, but remember this. And again, I say it and everybody says it. You know who says it better than anybody is Dr. Fauci. I had a decision to make. Maybe it was my biggest decision. China was heavily infected, and 1000s and 1000s of people were coming from China to the United States. And against the wishes, not even wishes, but they disagreed with the decision. I made a decision to stop China from coming in. Took a lot of heat, even from China. They werent exactly happy. I just made a trade deal, a big one, $250 billion trade deal. And Im shortly thereafter saying, You cant come into our country.  That was a big decision. That was earlier than the date youre talking about. So that was a big decision. That was probably, and by the way, not because I did it, that was probably the biggest decision we made so far. But if you look at the one graph, the problem New York has is New York started late, but the other ones didnt start so late. Now New York is also more complicated, because for obvious reasons, but it got a late start. But do you maybe want to answer those questions? We would have known the same thing. We inherited . I do believe we were very early, but I also think that we were very smart, because we stopped China. We had never done that before. You know, we had never closed our borders before, as I read. I read. I dont know, maybe thats not right. And Dr. Fauci had also said that was, I think it was maybe the biggest moment, because we were stopping the source. We were stopping the infection. But we also stopped Europe very shortly thereafter. That was a big decision. That was not an easy decision either. I stopped them a long time before people started stopping anywhere. So we stopped China, we stopped Europe, we stopped all of Europe. And then ultimately we stopped UK, Ireland. Yes?  In the back there, please. Sure, please. Yeah please, go ahead. Youre talking about the chloroquine? Is that what youre talking about? In specifically the last question? There are trials going on, but there are also trials going on, were trying them on people that are now sick. Thats a very important trial. Were watching whatever happens around the world. Were watching those trials very closely.  Mitch? Well, I dont like to think I did. I think I handled it very well, but I guess it probably did. I mean, I got impeached. I think I certainly devoted a little time to thinking about it. Right? But think of it. It was a hoax. It was a total hoax. And when you think that I got impeached only because they had a majority in the House. They didnt get one Republican vote. 196 to nothing. Not one Republican. I dont think its ever happened. The Republicans stuck together, and they stuck together in the Senate. 52 to a half. A half. So when you say that, yeah, I think it took a lot of, I see them going and saying about speed. Well, they probably illegally impeached me in the sense that if you look at the FBI today with what happened, the horrible things, nobody cares about that now, because all theyre thinking about is the virus. And thats okay with me.  But you look at the report that came out from IG Horowitz, its disgraceful what went on. Its disgraceful. Its a total disgrace. They got caught in the act, but you know what? We wont talk about that now. Did it divert my attention? I think Im getting A pluses for the way I handled myself during a phony impeachment. Okay? It was a hoax. But certainly, I guess I thought of it. And I think I probably acted. I dont think I would have done any better had I not been impeached. Okay? And I think thats a great tribute to something. Maybe its a tribute to me. But I dont think I would have acted any differently, or I dont think I would have acted any faster.  But the Democrats, their whole life, their whole being, their whole existence was to try and get me out of office any way they can. Even if it was a phony deal. And it was a phony deal. And it turned out, and all you have to do is look today at the FBI reports. Take a look at what the FBI did. Take a look at the people. Take a look at Comeys report. Seven and eight pages of total kill. Take a look at that. Take a look at the reporter, McCabe. Just read it. And youll see how horrible it was. And you know what? I dont think this country is going to take it. You want to know the truth.  Yeah, well, Ill be speaking. Im going to be speaking. In fact, he has a call in to me. Well be speaking to the governor, and well be speaking to him soon. But theres a case. We have two ships. There are people that are sick on the ship, and we dont want to be like theyre going to be ghost ships. You know, people turn those ships away. There was a ship, as you know, in a certain part of Asia and from port to port, nobody would take it. But in the meantime, you have people that are dying on the ship or at least very sick, but theyre dying on the ship. So Im going to do whats right, not only for us but for humanity. I mean, these are two big ships, and they have a lot of very sick people. Ill be speaking to the governor. Lets do just a couple more back here.  Go ahead, please. Do you ever run out of questions, you people? Its the most unbelievable thing. You go through the room with me. But I have nothing else to do. So if you want us. I mean, if you want. Should we keep it going, John? I think so. Lets go. You mean he was complaining? Say it. What did he say exactly? What did he say? Well, he shouldnt be complaining because we gave him a lot of ventilators. And if you take a look at the chart, its down. But I wish he got going a little bit sooner. But we gave him a lot of ventilators, and you know what? He has a lot of ventilators. The problem is with some people, no matter what you give, its never enough. Its never enough. Like theyll say,  Hows Trump doing? And youre a Democrat. Some of them said, Really good. Ill tell you, Gavin Newsom from California, whos doing a good job by the way, and others said, Really good. But generally your natural reflex. Hows Trump doing? You ask that question to a Democrat. Well, we dont like it. Oh really? You dont like it? Were getting very high marks, but Im not doing this for marks. Im doing this to save lives. When John acted, wait. When John saw the numbers and when Jim saw those numbers, theyre shocking numbers. You know, youre talking about deaths.  Even at the low end, you were shocked. When you see 100 and 120000 and 200000 people over potentially a very short period of time, I want to save lives. Im not doing this for any other reason. I want to save lives. But the governor of New Yorks gotten, I think maybe, probably, has more than anybody has gotten. Four hospitals. Hes gotten four medical tents. Hes gotten a ship the likes of which nobodys ever seen before other, than Los Angeles, which has the twin. I mean, weve done a lot, but many ventilators were sent to New York.  And Mayor de Blasio. Im getting along with Mayor de Blasio great. And I think hes very happy with the job were doing, too. Were sending a lot of, actually Mayor de Blasio had an interesting request. He wanted people. And were sending medical people. A lot of people, a lot of the states, arent having a problem with ventilators. Theyre having a problem getting medical people, and were sending a lot of people in. Military-   And were sending a lot of people in, military, very talented people. Who ? Go ahead and then Ill do you second. They shouldnt be doing what? They shouldnt be competing and they should call us. Wait, no, I dont want them to compete because all theyre going to do is drive up the price. I dont want them to compete. They should be calling us and we can work it so they get the ventilators and they get shipped directly. If theyre competing, if theyre calling, even if theres only two of them calling, theyre going to just drive up the price. Because as nice as some of the people that do ventilators, they do want to make money. Okay? Now, you dont get a chance to buy 16,000 ventilators, I guess they didnt take that option. That was in 2016, and thats a hard option to take because its a lot of money and who would ever think you need 16,000 ventilators? Who would ever think it? But this a very unique time in life. And I think Im dealing with New York and were having a very good relationship and you see what just happened in Central Park with the tents. I mean, were having a really good relationship. Go ahead. You didnt get. Yes. Theyve done a good job, California. Now lets see what happens. Because we could have a spike doctors. I mean, you dont know. They could have a spike where all of a sudden it spikes upward. We had a couple of like a Louisiana, I think theyre doing a really good job, but they had nothing. Now they had Mardi Gras and then all of a sudden after Mardi Gras, which tells you about distancing, I guess. I mean, its an example of what could happen, but they were like flawless. I was always surprised. I was looking at Louisiana and I understand that state. I love that state, and Im saying theyre in great shape. Then they have Monte Gras was a big success, tremendous success, and then all of a sudden it went like a rocket ship. So that tells you about distancing. Please. Say it again, a little louder. Yeah, there is. Well, theyre looking at that very strongly and I know that its bothers Gavin. I dont know if it bothers Nancy Pelosi, but shes got it in her district at a very high level. They have to be very careful. They have a very big homeless population in an area which just a few years ago didnt have anybody in those areas, and theyre living in the streets and theyre  I know that some people in California are working on that very hard. Were talking about something that will be very positive for the world if we do it, well see if we do it or not. Well, I dont want to talk  Its a private thing, but it will become public if we decide to do it, but positive. Our relationship with the president, our relationship with France is I think extraordinary. Very good. Probably as good as its ever been. Well, it is. Its going to go away. Hopefully at the end of the month and if not it hopefully will be soon after that. It is going away. I think from the beginning, my attitude was that we have to give this country  I knew how bad it was. All you have to do is look at what was going on in China. It was devastation. Well, yeah, look at the numbers from China, those initial numbers coming out from China. But I read an article today which was very interesting. They say, We wish president Trump would give more bad news. Give bad news. Im not about bad news. I want to give people hope. I want to give people a feeling that we all have a chance. I mean, when you saw the numbers and when John and all of you saw those numbers and you were saying 120,000 people, you mean thats good? 100,000 dead people within a short period of time. I want to give people a feeling of hope. I could be very negative. I could say, Wait a minute. Those numbers are terrible. This is going to be horrible. This is a horrible thing. Hey Jim- Well, there were a lot of people that could have said that, we didnt say that. Fortunately I didnt say that and that was an alternative. We talked about it. That was always an alternative. Thats what I said, Let it rip, let it ride, do nothing. And we could have had 2.2 million dead people more than that because I didnt do that. And we did catch it early and we stopped China really early and we stopped Europe really early because I saw what was happening  What happened is I stopped Italy because Italy was really heavily infected. We started off with certain parts of Italy, then all of Italy. Then we stopped Spain, then I said stop Europe, lets stop Europe. We have to stop them from coming here. Europe, I love Europe, but they were having problems. I dont think anybody did a better job than that. Especially when you see the 2.2 million number, and I hope were going to be substantially under the numbers that youre looking at on the minimum side. Then I think we will have, hey look, its still tremendous death- I want to be positive. I dont want to be negative. I have to  Im a positive person. Somebody said, Oh, I wish youd be more negative. They literally have that. Its in one of the wonderful newspapers today. I wish youd be more negative. Well, this is really easy to be negative about, but I want to give people hope too. Im a cheerleader for the country. Were going through the worst thing that the countrys probably ever seen. Look, we had The Civil War, we lost 600,000 people. Right? Heres the thing, had we not done anything, we would have lost many times that, but we did something and so its going to be hopefully way under that, but we lose more here potentially than you lose in world wars as a country. So theres nothing positive, theres nothing great about it, but I want to give people in this country hope. I think its very important. I knew everything. I knew it could be horrible and I knew it could be maybe good. Dont forget, at that time people didnt know that much about it. Even the experts, we were talking about it. We didnt know where it was going. We saw China, but that was it. Maybe it would have stopped at China. We wished we could have killed it in China, but it didnt happen. It started spreading to Europe. It started spreading here. It started spreading all over, but  And Im not blaming anybody, Im just saying that we have an incredible thing. I think the people, our professionals, our military, our governors, our politicians, I think theyve done an incredible job. With few exceptions, I think theyve done an incredible job.  But I dont want to be a negative person. Itd be so much easier for me to come up and say, We have bad news. Were going to lose 220,000 people and its going to happen over the next few weeks. And with that, I did start off by saying today, long before this question, I said, This is going to be a rough two or three weeks. This is going to be one of the roughest two or three weeks weve ever had in our country. Were going to lose thousands of people.  When I see 28, 29 people from the governor of New Jersey, 29 people, when you see 173 people died in New York yesterday or whatever the number was, I think it was more than that. When you see the kind of numbers that were witnessing, weve never seen numbers like that. So its easy to be negative and then everybody could be negative. But Im a cheerleader for our country, and I want to do a great job so the number can be kept  And Ive always said it. I want as few a number of people to die as possible and thats all were working on. I dont mind the question. I think its actually  I think its  Its not meant to be. Look, I know you well enough, so its not meant to be a fair question, but it is a fair question. I think weve done a fantastic job. Okay, fine. Ill, Ill accept your word. Look, Jim. I think weve done a great job. Were going to see how it comes out, but when you look at minimal numbers of 120,000 people, when you look at, it could have been 2.2 Million people died and more if we did nothing.  If we just did nothing, wouldve gone up and would it come down as per your statement, it would have been confined. It would have been a similar time, maybe even less time. It would have been violence like weve never seen in this country before. We had great professionals, great military, really great governors and politicians. I cannot say enough about whats going on. And as per what you said, I think were way ahead of schedule in terms of numbers, I think, I hope. But if we can keep it under the minimum numbers, the country has  Not me, the country has done a great job, but I think Ive done a really good job of mobilizing. I think Mike Pence has been fantastic. I put him in charge of the task force. We have wonderful people on the task force, Jim, wonderful people. This man was working, literally, he had days where he didnt go to bed, he didnt go to sleep. He called  He went 24 hours and then started the next day.  People dont know the job he did. I didnt even know he was that good of a manager to be honest with you, Mike. Okay? And you never know that about somebody until theyre tested under fire. But he saw it very early also. We both did. They saw it very early. They knew pretty soon. They probably knew sooner than anybody because thats what they study. Thats what they do. Must be a depressing business, right? Lets do a little bit depressing, but theyve seen it all. Go ahead John. Do you want to keep going? Go ahead, over there. Yes. I never say that, but Franklin Graham is somebody thats very special. I have many very special people and a very many special in the evangelical, evangelical Christian community. You could talk rabbis, you can talk a lot of  I have tremendous support from religious leaders and Franklin Graham, I just spoke to him today for an extended period of time. I told him what a fantastic job youre doing, and he does this. He loves doing it. He loves helping people, and he loves Jesus. Then I can tell you. He loves Jesus. Hes a great gentleman. Go ahead. On what? And just about masks. You can get a mask, but you can also do  I mean most people have scarves and scarves are very good and they can use a scarf and where are we talking about a limited period of time. And it says in the recommendations you can use  You can substitute a scarf for a mask. So if people feel that  And I think some people disagree with the mask for various reasons and some people dont. But you can wear a scarf, you can do the masks if it makes you feel better. We have no objection to it and some people recommend it. Lets go. You people never get tired. Thank you. Theres still good questions. You mean you people? You mean you people? I mean, youre pretty spread out already. I dont have anymore  I dont think well have press conferences anymore, but- Look, were very careful. Im very careful personally, and- We are looking at numerous countries as they get in a position. Brazil as an example, you mentioned the president. Brazil had no problem until just a short time ago and now theyre starting to get inflamed and yes, we are absolutely looking at a ban. There are two other countries you mentioned, Iran already has a band. They had sort of an automatic ban. In addition to that, they have a band. So were looking at certain countries as they become hot. I wanted to go to the opening of the hospital in New York, and my people couldnt even believe it that I said it, but I did. I wanted to go. They didnt want me to do it. The Secret Service didnt want me to do it for reasons I wanted to go to the boat sailing into New York Harbor. But the governor did a good job of that, and the mayor of New York. So I love to go out but not be in the white house and its sort of like nerve center, control center and I think its important. Look, you see what happened with Boris Johnson, you see what happened with others. I think its important that I remain healthy. I really do. So for the most part were staying here. Ive canceled many different events and well be staying here, for the most part. We have it. And I have to say this, Ive had, in the last less than a week, three governors call up that truly have disliked me over the years. Even before I decided to run for president and they said, I have to tell you, youve done a great job. You and your team have done a great job. These are three governors respected, very respected in two cases and they said, Like or not like, you and your team have done an incredible job. And I think they have, I think theyve done an incredible job. Go ahead, please. I just want to add, I think the one thing nobody really knew about this virus was how contagious it was. Its so incredibly contagious, and nobody knew that. This is like a  I dont know that anybodys ever seen anything like this. Normally youd have to get close and touch and this. A lot of things have to happen. This is just like  Its truly invisible and so contagious and I dont think any doctor knew it at the time. I dont think anybody could have known it. People have not seen anything like this. Essentially we do. Weve distributed thousands of ventilators and we have now thousands of ventilators and were buying them at a good price and were actually making them by the thousands. Were making them. You saw yesterday where Ford is going to have a tremendous number, theyre looking to make 100,000 ventilators. Ford has been great. General Electric healthcare has been great. General Motors has come a long way. I have to be honest. They are working very hard. Were making thousands and thousands of ventilators. At the end of this, and there will be, dont say Im optimistic, because I dont want to  I wouldnt want to do that, but I am optimistic. Im a very optimistic person. Let me tell you, we will have thousands of ventilators, and what I want to do is make sure that we always have plenty for the future, but then we want to help Italy and France and other countries that you dont even know about yet with all of the problems they have, because ventilators are very tough to come by. Theyre very hard to make, theyre very complicated, theyre very expensive. Yeah, please. You can go ahead. Go ahead. I cant take your interpretation of what he said, I dont know what he said. I think hes been reasonably generous considering hes a Democrat and I think hed like to run for president. So I think hes been pretty generous under those circumstances, but hes been very generous to me. Look, I got them ships, I got them hospitals, I got them a lot of things that he never thought . He hit pay dirt, okay? And Ive been very generous on ventilators. If you look, they had 2,000 and 4,000 they had thousands of ventilators in his warehouse, in their warehouse waiting to be picked up. They never picked them up. So Id have to hear it from him face to face. And how about one more and well see you tomorrow. Is that okay? Dont say got to cut it short- Thats right, it could be  tomorrow, but you know what? In the meantime, Im sure people are enjoying it. Now, I will say this, its an incredibly dark topic and incredibly horrible topic and its incredibly interesting. Thats why everybody is  Theyre going crazy. They cant get enough of it and they want to be careful and I guess theyre studying it for themselves. Just studying if they get it. A lot of people have it. A lot of people are positive and they hope for the best, because when this gets the wrong person, meaning a person that qualifies, generally speaking, under the list, it is ravaging. It is horrible. Go ahead. How about you, in the back? If we do see a second wave, because Ive heard Dr. Fauci answer this question. If we do were going to be, I think, very well-prepared, and the second wave wont be like the first wave, and with that I better let him give you a little bit more to that answer because I dont want to have him upset with me and say, I wish you would have answered that question. Come on doctor. A lot of very positive things are happening with the therapeutics and drugs of different kinds and the vaccines. I think a lot of very positive things are happening. Okay, one more. Please. I will say Mike Pence, myself, the head of FEMA, some of our generals that are working that are doing an unbeliever, we have generals that are working that are unbelievable talents, unbelievable leaders, and itll go through one of three or four people if it comes down to that. And I hope it doesnt come down to that, because I think were very well-equipped, and its an honor to be here tonight. I appreciate it. I appreciate your interest. I think there is a great interest in it, and well see you tomorrow. Well see you tomorrow. ."
"Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. So America continues to wage all out war to defeat the virus, this horrible, horrible virus. You see how terrible it is, especially when you look at the numbers from yesterday. And we explained why were extending our nationwide guidelines to slow the spread for 30 days. Together we have the power to save countless lives. Were attacking the virus in every front with social distancing, economic support for our workers, rapid medical intervention, and very serious innovation and banning dangerous foreign travel that threatens the health of our people. And we did that early, far earlier than anyone would have thought and way ahead of anybody else. In this time of need, I know that every American will do their patriotic duty and help us to achieve a total victory. As governments and nations focus on the coronavirus, theres a growing threat that cartels, criminals, terrorists, and other maligned actors will try to exploit the situation for their own gain. And we must not let that happen. We will never let that happen.  Today, the United States is launching enhanced counter narcotics operations in the Western hemisphere to protect the American people from the deadly scourge of illegal narcotics. We must not let the drug cartels exploit the pandemic to threaten American lives. In cooperation with the 22 partner nations, U.S. Southern Command will increase surveillance, disruption and seizures of drug shipments and provide additional support for eradication efforts which are going on right now at a record pace. Were deploying additional Navy destroyers, combat ships, aircraft and helicopters, Coast Guard cutters and Air Force surveillance aircraft, doubling our capabilities in the region. Very importantly, our forces are fully equipped with personnel protective equipment and weve taken additional safety measures to ensure our troops remain healthy. Secretary Mark Esper, Attorney General Bill Barr, National Security Advisor Robert OBrien will provide more details. In addition, Im going to have General Milley, whos done an incredible job so many ways, say a few words and also with us our Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Gilday, who you know, I think you know and Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Schultz.  So Im going to ask Mark to start and then we can go and after that were going to take questions as it pertains to this and then well go on to phase two, which is the virus itself. Okay, thank you, please, Mark. Thank you General, thank you. So do we have any questions on this? Because this group is going to go back to work, theyre going to leave. Well, for a long time weve had a lot of drugs coming into our country and its not that its increased, weve probably got it down a little bit, but its still a tremendous number of families are being ruined, lives are being ruined. Its an incredible thing, especially as youre at this position, you would never believe it. I see things that nobody would believe. I see reports that nobody would believe. So I met with the group behind me, all of them, and we said, what do you think we can do? And they think they can interdict, they that think we can stop it before it gets to the shores and theyre coming from all over the place and we have incredibly talented people. So I think Im going to let Mark just give him a little bit of an answer to that. But we just want to see if we can stop a good percentage of the drugs coming into our country.  didnt do it for this reason, but itll also have an impact on the virus because we have people trying to get in, so not only drugs, but now we have a new phenomena. And thats at least for the next hopefully short period of time, the virus, so well be able to have an impact on that too. Please. Well, because were focused on so many other parts of the country and even parts of the world. And all of a sudden, areas where we had it clamped down pretty tight, in all fairness, the wall is up to about 160 miles already. And any areas where we have that wall, its for the most part contiguous, we have fill-ins but were up to 161 miles exactly. And any place where you have that wall, other than walking around it on the edges, its stopping everybody cold. I mean, were stopping  Nobodys seen anything like it, thats how good it works. And the other side knew had worked that well. Everybody, because everybody was for it five years ago, all of a sudden they changed.  Its having a tremendous impact. But we are now focused on so many different things because of whats happened, because of this horrible, I say its a horrible phenomena that now weve got to focus on drugs and the drugs come in from different methods and we have the best people at sea anywhere in the world. So well have a tremendous impact on drugs. But one of the other things, well also have an impact we think on the virus. Yeah, please. We really dont know, how do we know whether they under reported or reported however they report. But we had a great call the other night. Were working together on a lot of different things including trade. Theyre buying a lot, theyre spending a lot of money and theyre giving it to our farmers. Theyre paying our farmers for the product. So were going to continue that along. John, yeah. I know what youre saying, but we just have information that they were planning something and its very good information. It was led by Iran, not necessarily Iran, but by groups supported by Iran, but that to me is Iran. And were just saying, dont do it, dont do it, it would be a very bad thing for them if they did it. I had a very powerful response by the way, that response knocked out five different places, but it also took out a lot of very bad people. Well, that was a very big response, we knocked out a lot. We looked at  they had one side, we hit five big ones and ammunition sites. You saw what happened, and I wont say how many people were killed, but some bad people were killed and a lot of them. That was a big response. But this response will be bigger, if they do something. Yeah and you had one, please. We have not received that, but their numbers seem to be a little bit on the light side and Im being nice when I say that, relative to what we witnessed and what was reported. But we discussed that with him, not so much the numbers, as what they did and how theyre doing. And were in constant communication with the  I mean, I would say the biggest communication is myself and President Xi. The relationships very good. Look, they will be spending when things even out, this is obviously a little bit of a hurdle whats happened over the last month, but theyll be spending $250 billion buying our product. $50 billion to the farmers alone, $200 billion to other things. They never did that before. So we have a great trade deal and wed like to keep it. Theyd like to keep it and the relationship is good. As to whether or not their numbers are accurate, Im not an accountant from China. No, because people just dont know. People dont know. Where did it come from? I think we all understand where it came from and President Xi understands that and we dont have to make a big deal out of it. We didnt like the fact that they said it came from our soldiers and they havent pursued that. And that a mid-level person said that, that was not a high level person. So I will always assume the best. Ill assume the high level people didnt know about it. It was a foolish statement. So look, the relationship with China is a good one and my relationship with him is really good. Please. Oh, I dont mind if they want  Yeah, I feel that is a positive if theyre helping other countries. We have 151 countries right now that are under siege by the virus, under siege. Some are doing really badly, they dont know about social distancing. These are countries that arent highly sophisticated. They dont have great communication to the rest of the world. I mean, they dont know the things that were doing and that some others are able to do. And if China can help them, Im all for it. Im for all of us helping everybody. Were soon going to have more ventilators than we need. Were building thousands of ventilators right now. Now, it takes a period of time to build them. And again, nobody could have known a thing like this could happen. Were building thousands. We will fairly soon be at a point where we have far more than we can use. Even after we stockpile for some future catastrophe, which we hope doesnt happen. Were going to be distributed them, the extras around the world. Well go to Italy, well go to France, well go to Spain, which is very hard hit. No, no truth whatsoever. I would love China and other countries if they have additional supplies, medical supplies to give to other countries. 151, why would I stop that? Wouldnt it be terrible to stop it? Whatever we have, whatever weve committed to, we commit, but we also need a lot for ourselves, so were very focused on that until we get over this. So obviously, were not going to be shipping too much until now. We do have excess of certain things and we dont have enough of others. I just had a great talk today with Doug McMillan from Walmart and I gave him a very, very big order for gowns, for protective gear, for the doctors, for the nurses, for everything. And hes actually very excited about it. Hes the biggest purchaser of this kind of thing. I mean of anything probably in the world. And he is very excited about it. And he said, what size? I said, its almost an unlimited.  When you look at these hospitals, the amount that they order, you almost say, how could they possibly use so much, whether its masks or the protective gear. But we are supplying a tremendous amount and we just ordered a lot from Walmart. And hes taken this on personally. And I said, let it be shipped not to a warehouse directly to the side of the hospital or wherever they need it because we save a lot of-  Play to the side of the hospital or wherever they need it because we save a lot of time when we do that. So Walmart, in addition to many other companies and people, is now involved at the highest level. Please. I dont think were losing ground, but we dont want to lose ground. Thats why were doing it. I dont want to lose ground. Its a big fight. Ive seen many families where theyre wiped out because they lost a son or a daughter or a husband or a wife or whatever. Or all of them and we dont want to lose ground and we are heavily focused on the virus, very heavily focused. After this goes into effect, which essentially is now, we will never have been so focused on drugs coming into our country as we are right now. And remember, as that wall gets bigger, that really helps us a lot. Really helps us a lot. Yeah, please. Many of the governments are, and Mexico in particular is. In Mexico right now, we have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our Southern border keeping people out of our country and very few people are coming into our country right now and as we complete, again the wall, in addition to the 27,000 soldiers, its a very tough place to come into.  When I took over, people were coming in and they were bringing whatever they wanted. They were bringing drugs of any type and now, its very hard for them. And it will get harder and harder. But the president of Mexico is a great guy who has really helped us a lot. 27,000 Mexican soldiers. And you remember when I first took over, they had all of the caravans coming up with 10,000, 15,000 people in the caravans. They were marching through Mexico. Thats not happening anymore. Please, in the back? I cannot tell you. I know the answer to that, I believe I do, but I cannot tell you that. We have information that would lead us to believe something very powerfully. But I cannot tell you the answer to that. Yeah, please?  Sure. Theyre taking precautions and we are watching it very closely and if something bad happens, its going to be very painful for the other side. They know about it. Yeah. They know. Well see. Well see what happens, but were down to a small force now over the years. Since I got, weve been bringing smaller and smaller, and were down right now to a small number, but we have very powerful air power there. We have the big base. I mean, nobody can get near it. Nobody can even get near that. But weve really largely left, weve taken tremendous amounts out and weve deployed them elsewhere, including bringing some back home. Its social media, it gets out. I have hundreds of millions of people, number one on Facebook. Did you know I was number one on Facebook? I just found out Im number one on Facebook. I thought that was very nice, for whatever it means. It represents something and when I can explain to people just dont do it. Its going to be bad if you do, its going to be really bad and they dont need to do it, they have enough problems. Iran has enough problems without doing that. But weve been pulling back very substantially over the last year in Iraq. And so, thats the way it is. No, Im just giving them a warning, its not a heads up. Im giving them a warning. Theres a big difference. Im saying if you do anything to hurt our troops, theyre going to pay a price. Now, as per the question, they did last time. We didnt make a big deal out of it, but we hit very, very hard five massive major ammunition sites and a lot of people went with it. A lot of bad people. A lot of enemy went with it and we didnt want to make a big deal out of it, but they paid a big price. Theyll pay a much bigger price this time if they do anything. Sure. Not too many people are going to be getting off at various ports anymore. Right? I think we- We probably have decided on that. Thank you. No, military people, on ships. It is because were sending directly to hospitals. We dont want it to come to the stockpile because then we have to take it after it arrives and bring it to various states and hospitals. One of the things, and again, we asked the states to do this as much as possible, many of the states have people that, whether its that or clothing, they make clothing, lots of clothing in many of the different states. We said, See if you can get it directly from those manufacturers, make a deal, well use the purchase act if we have to on them, if they wont. By the way, so many people are The spirit is incredible, what theyre doing, but weve asked States where they have large manufacturers of different types of equipment to use those local factories, those local plants, and have it made directly, ship it right into the hospitals. Were shipping things right in.  We have, as you know, almost 10,000 ventilators, which we need for flexibility. Its a lot. It sounds like a lot, but its not because as you see on the board from yesterday, as this scourge, as this plague, as this virus moves, it moves very fast and we dont know yet whether were going to need it in Louisiana, in New York, wherever it may be. So were ready for it. Were totally ready for it. Were going to be shipping out, weve already agreed to ship out over a thousand today to different sites, different locations, but we have to have the flexibility of moving the ventilators to where the virus is going. And well be able to see that from charts a couple of days in advance. So right now, we have a nice pile of ventilators.  We have a lot more coming in. I think we have 11 companies making ventilators right now. Very good companies and theyre making them. You know about Ford, you know about General Motors, but we have a lot of companies making the ventilators right now. So, now the question is, when you make one, it doesnt get made in 15 minutes. A mask can go quickly, a ventilator takes time to build. Its very, very, as we discussed, its complex, its big, gets expensive, et cetera. But well be able to move. We have great flexibility. John? Yeah, I think if Does anybody have any other questions for this great group of brilliant people? Yes, please? Were looking at doing two additional brand new hospital ships because these ships have really struck a blow, a very positive blow for what theyre doing. Going into Los Angeles, going into New York. So, were looking very seriously at building two additional ships of about the same size. Well, building but were looking at building either two new ones or doing the renovation of another large ship. But this has really worked out well. So probably two brand new ones.   Is this concerning the gentleman or do you want them You dont want them to get back to work and capture all those bad people? Yeah, it can move very quickly. Hes a very capable man. Were ready to move very quickly. As an example, in Louisiana, they have a very big hospital, so were looking to move very quickly. If we need them. Hopefully we wont need them. Were going to find out pretty soon. Were only going to know at the time it happens. We prepare for the worst. We are preparing for the worst. Unfortunately, thats the way we have to look at it. Well, as I understand, theyre not doing that on the ship. Thats the one thing theyre not doing outside of the COVID-19. Theyre not doing that. The birth of a baby not being done on the ships. One more for this group right here, please. And I happen to think they want to make a deal. They just dont know really how to start and theyve been given some bad advice by former Secretary Kerry. Its a very bad advice and I really think they want to make a deal, which is the Logan act, but wed have to look at the Logan act. All you have to do is take a look. I think theyve been given very bad advice by Secretary Kerry. I think theyre dying to make a deal. Look, their countrys in trouble. Their economics are shot. Theyve got a lot of bad things going. I think theyd like to make a deal. They can get it settled very quickly. No nuclear weapons. They cant have nuclear weapons. Its very simple. Okay, lets let these folks get back to work. Is that okay? Thank you all very much.  So as we deploy our service members to combat both threats abroad, invisible enemy at home, earlier today I spoke to our nations incredible warriors and military families. Spent a long time of the phone with thousands and thousands of families that were hooked in. In order to stop the spread of the virus, some of these families have delayed planned moves to their next duty station and in other cases, military families are also waiting longer to welcome home the heroes from deployment. Theres a tremendous burden to bear and the families have been involved with us for so long and they are incredible. Without the families, they couldnt be the great service members that they turned out to be. And they understand that. And I must say, protecting our military families is our top priority.  So, they understand whats happening with respect to the virus and they understand it well. Theyve been fantastic. As commander in chief, Im deeply grateful for our service members, their spouses and their children, whose love, devotion and sacrifice keeps America strong. To make, procure and deliver a crucial medical supplies to our doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers, my administration is leveraging the might of American manufacturing supply chains and innovators across the industry and across every industry and I just told you about Walmart and I could tell you about many more. Hanes is making protective gear and masks and were making tremendous amounts of product.  Theres never been anything like it. At the same time, I tell the governors, get it yourself if you can from your local companies and your local warehouses and factories. If you can do that, you should do that. Because of the actions that weve taken under the Defense Production Act, manufacturers and suppliers are sharing with FEMA and HHS their planned orders and allocations to states and to hospitals all over the region. This enables FEMA and HHS to work closely with states, local governments and private sector to allocate critical resources to highly impacted areas. Working together, were entirely focused on getting materials to the right place at the right time. So, we wanted to go directly to a hospital or directly to a certain state location and ideally, not even hit the states warehouses. If we can avoid the warehouses, its even better because they go directly into a hospital.  And one example of that is Ohio, the great state of Ohio. Senator Rob Portman called today and he asked for some help and got us Did a tremendous job along with Mike DeWine, the great governor of Ohio, to facilitate a donation of 2.2 million gowns. 2.2 million gowns, think of what that is, 2.2 million to the strategic national stockpile from Ohio based Cardinal health. Cardinal health, we appreciate it and theyre making much more than that and different types of things.  Were profoundly grateful for their contribution to protect the lives and safety of our healthcare professionals. Cardinals been working with us very well. FEMA and HHS formed a historic partnership with a private sector called Project Airbridge to bring supplies from other countries to the United States, including gloves, gowns, goggles and masks. These supplies will soon be distributed around the country. We have large cargo planes coming in from various parts of the world. Every day, new plane loads are landing in cities such as New York, Miami, Chicago, Los Angeles.  Additional flights have been scheduled and were adding more and more and theyre actually coming in ahead of schedule. A lot of these flights are coming in with a lot of material ahead of schedule, The amount of usage, the amount of need is something that nobodys ever seen before. We are getting so much, but no matter how much we get, they seem to use it up very quickly. More than 17,000 national guard personnel have now been activated all across our country. On Tuesday, the vice-president sent a letter to the governors calling on them to have plans in place to use the national guard to move medical supplies from warehouses to hospitals. So, a lot of times well deliver supplies to our in a state, someplace in New York or in New Jersey or in Connecticut or wherever it may be, and theyre having difficulty getting it moved.  So what were doing, if we dont bring it directly to the hospital, is weve authorized, it was a special authorization, the national guard to go into that facility and to move it for the state. So, the national guard is moving a lot of this equipment and medical supplies into a hospital or into an area where its needed by the state. As I said yesterday, difficult days are ahead for our nation. Were going to have a couple of weeks, starting pretty much now, but especially a few days from now that are going to be horrific, but even in the most challenging of times, Americans do not despair. We do not give into fear. We pull together, we persevere and we overcome and we win. This week, every American heart is joined with the people of New York as they continue to bear the brunt of the pandemic. To every New Yorker, please know that we are by your side.  I love New York and every day we will be with you and it could very well be that others take over from New York. There are some areas, some hotspots in other States that are really exploding. Some, like Louisiana, were very late and then all of a sudden, it was like an explosion. In confronting this deadly plague, Americas armed with capabilities never dreamed of in past centuries. You look at 1917, the pandemic, it was something. Ravaged parts of this country, but ravaged Europe. Ravaged. They say 75 to 100 million, some people say 50 to 75 million people died. Think of that and that was a long time ago, over a hundred years ago. Many books written about the 1917, 1918 pandemic.  Our doctors are pouring over the virus. Genetic code, designing potential therapies and vaccines. Our planes are airlifting supplies from every corner of the earth. Were watching other countries and theyre watching us to see whether or not, and whos going to be the first to come up with a cure or a remedy of some kind or even a help, if it can help.  And of course, a vaccine. Were looking very strongly for a vaccine. Johnson and Johnson is doing well and other companies are doing very well. But our most powerful asset, our greatest weapon in this effort is the spirit of our people and we want to keep away, keep a distance, keep away. If you dont get it, it solves a lot of problems. If you dont get it, and you cant get it if you keep the distance. American spirit is unyielding, unwavering and unbreakable. Its incredible. Ive never seen anything like it. The way the people have pulled together, the unity of this country. So, together were going to win this war and the sooner we do, the sooner we can begin to rebuild and were ready to rebound and return to normal lives. We went from the best economy of the history of the world, the best economy that this country has ever seen, the best employment numbers weve ever had.  160 million people working, almost 160 million to a point where the professionals came to me and they say, Sir, youre going to have to shut the country down. I said,  What does that mean? They said, Sir, youre going to have to shut it down. And were going to build it up and I think were going to build it up fast. I think were going to have a tremendous rebound. Theres a great energy and a great pent up demand, and as you know, phase three was terrific and phase four, what passed in Congress, and phase four if that happens will be great.  I already proposed paying almost zero interest on bonds and I proposed a $2 trillion infrastructure plan, which would not only fix our roads and highways and bridges and tunnels and other things, but will also do something very good, its called jobs. Im also asking that restaurants and entertainment facilities go back to the old deductibility from corporations, where corporations can buy, because otherwise a lot of these restaurants have got to have a hard time reopening. It takes a long time and theyre going to have a hard time reopening. So were asking for going back to deductibility where corporations can buy and corporations can go out to lunch and they pay and they get a deduction on what they eat. They get a deduction on the bill, and same with the entertainment. Its going to bring a lot of people back. I think itll open up the restaurant business.  People forget that years ago they had that and when they got rid of it, when they ended it for whatever reason, but they ended it, many, many restaurants went out of business. Many entertainment type facilities went out of business and nows a great time to bring it back. It was a terrible time for that business after they ended it, but this is a great time to bring it back. Itll keep our restaurants going. In fact, I think the restaurant business will be actually bigger and better than it is right now. So, were also talking about that. And now, what well do is well take some questions and I see Mike is back with some of the folks. Thats great, Dr Fauci. And we will Oh, how are you? Thank you Debra. So well take some questions and we make progress day by day. Please? I think the severity. I think also in looking at the I think the severity. I think, also, in looking at the way that the contagion It is so contagious. Nobodys ever seen anything like this where large groups of people, all of a sudden just by being in the presence of somebody having The flu has never been like that. Flu is contagious, but nothing like weve ever seen here. Also the violence of it. If it hits the right person, and you know what those stats are. If it hits the right person, that persons in deep trouble. And my friend was the right person. No. Not a turning point. Before then, I knew how Because Im seeing numbers that Im seeing, statistics that are not exactly very good. But it hit him very hard. Hes strong. A very strong kind of a guy, but hes older, hes heavier, and hes sort of central casting for what were talking about, and it hit him very hard. Ive never seen anything like it. Yeah,  . Well, were thinking about doing that. At the same time we just to start these airlines and to start this whole thing over again is very tough, john. Its very tough. And you have them going, in some cases, from hotspot to hotspot. If you notice, theyre usually hotspot to hotspot. Very few flights, New York to Miami, but were certainly looking at it, but once you do that, you really are clamping down an industry that is desperately needed. Well, were going to. That is a calculation that were looking at right now. Were looking at it very strongly. Please. Yeah, sure. Because states are different, and I understand that the Governor of Florida, great governor, Ron DeSantis issued one today, and thats good, thats great. But there are some states that are different. There are some States that dont have much of a problem. There are some, well, they dont have the problem. They dont have thousands of people that are positive or thousands of people that even think they might have it or hundreds of people in some cases.  So you have to look at states. You have to give a little bit of flexibility. We have a state in the Midwest, or if Alaska as an example, doesnt have a problem, its awfully tough to say close it down. So we have to have a little bit of flexibility. Look, were helping governors. Were really here to help governors. Theyre the front line of attack, and that includes in purchasing, by the way. Were here, and were backing them up, and theres never been a backup like weve given them. Weve given them billions of dollars worth of things, medical supplies and ventilators, thousands and thousands of ventilators. We have thousands under construction right now. We have thousands ready to go in case they need it. Theres never been anything like this.  Theyve done, really, the people, have done incredibly. Were building hospitals all over the country. Were building hospitals right now at a rate that has never even been contemplated before. Theyre mobile hospitals, but theyre really not mobile. Theyre incredible structures, but were building many hospitals. Louisiana, New Jersey, New York, we just finished a massive hospital complex. And we also have medical centers built in New York. Were building hospitals at the rate that this country has never done before. And hopefully its all going to work out. Were looking at the whole thing because were getting into a position now where we want to do that, we have to do that, and so were looking at the whole thing and we may have some recommendations. From 1950, these are oil prices. And thats when they had big dollars. Big, beautiful dollars. Look, we have a great oil industry, and the oil industry is being ravaged. And, as you know, Russia, and I spoke to President Putin, we had a great call, Russia, Saudi Arabia. I spoke with the Crown Prince. We had a great call. But I think that they will work it out over the next few days. If you ask me, I think its too simple not to be able to. They both know what they have to do. So I think I have confidence in both that theyll be able to work it out.  But it has ravaged an industry worldwide not here, I mean worldwide, the oil industry has been ravaged. So there was a lot of oil production to start off with, and then on top of it, it got hit with the virus, and business went down 35, 40% so that that business is a tough one. And they have ships all over the sea. I told you yesterday, all over the sea, massive tankers that they are using for storage. They go out, and they just sit there. Theres no place to go. They have massive amounts.  Now gasoline is going to be 99 cents a gallon and less. You know that. Thats already starting. Its popping up, 99 cents. So thats like giving a massive tax cut to people of our country when. We try and get the airlines going, if fuel is costing much less, it helps with getting the airlines, which is always a tough business, always has been a tough business. But with that being said, look, I want to get that industry back where it was. We were doing records in that industry, also. We want to get it back to where it was. So I think that Saudi Arabia, Russia, theyre negotiating, theyre talking, and I think theyll come up with something.  Im going to meet with the oil companies on Friday. Im going to meet with the independent oil producers also on Friday or Saturday, maybe Sunday, but were having a lot of meetings on it. I think I know what to do to solve it, but if theyre unable to solve it, then I think I know what to do to solve it. We wont mention it now, but its tough. I think I know what to do to solve it. We dont want to lose our great oil companies. You know, were the number one producer of oil in the world, and a month ago when you said that it was great. Today when you say it, its not so meaningful. But I do believe theres a way that that can be solved or pretty well solved. And Id rather not do that.  I think that Russia and Saudi Arabia, at some point, theyre going to make a deal in the not too distant future because its very bad for Russia. Its very bad for Saudi Arabia. Its very bad. I mean, its bad for both, so I think theyre going to make a deal. You know, the free market is a wonderful thing. Its amazing how it could work, but I think theyre going to make a deal. Yeah, please. Over there. Well, when youre saying undocumented, meaning they came in illegally, and a lot of people would say we have a lot of citizens right now that wont be working. So what are you going to do? Its a tough thing. Its a very terrible Its a very sad question. I must be honest with you. But they came in illegally, and we have a lot of people that are citizens of our country that wont be able to have jobs. Now, I do think, once we get rid of the virus, I think were going to have a boom economy.  I think its going to go up rather quickly, maybe very quickly and maybe slowly, but its going to go up and itll all come back. And I think its actually going to come back stronger than what it was because of the stimulus. But its a really a sad situation, and we are working on it. I will tell you, Im not going to give you a hard and fast answer because I just want to tell you, its something I think about, and its something were working on. Please. Go ahead. He doesnt need security. Everybody loves him.  says that they would be in big trouble if they ever attack. You know, he was a great basketball player. Did anybody know that? He was a little on the short side for the NBA, but he was talented. I read this, he won a game that was unwinnable against a great team, and his whole team said, We cant beat this team. And he went in and they won the game, right? That was a couple of years ago. The head never changes. The attitude never changes. Yes, please. He does. He did. He spoke to me. That I dont know. He spoke for me this morning. Who can? I didnt speak to him about it, but he did speak to me this morning. We talked about. Please. I dont know. It would have to look at what he did. I like it. I like it. Well, I think its something were discussing in terms of bonus or bonus pay. It doesnt have to be called hazard pay. Could be called Hey, look, I watched those people going to hospitals that I know. I talked about one of them, right? But I watched them walk into those hospitals, and they walk in, men, women, young, middle age, not so many older ones, and I watch them. Theyre almost like And I think I take the word almost out. Theyre like warriors. Theyre going in. People are cheering. Where theres a building across the street, the people are screaming, theyre clapping. Theyre like heroes. No, no. I will tell you, I think its incredible. Theyre like warriors. They like soldiers. And were going to be doing something for them, so whether its bonus because were hopefully going to be over this relatively quickly. Its going to be vicious for a period of time, but hopefully were going to be over this. You have a lot of questions today. Look at you. Do you know this young lady behind you? Thats good. Thats a good idea. Its good for a marriage. Okay. They took that up under the task force and make maybe Mike, do you want to say a few words about it. John, I think its a very fair question, though, and its something were really going to look at because it doesnt seem fair. If you have it, you have a big advantage and at a certain income level you do. I think its one of the greatest answers Ive ever heard because Mike was able to speak for five minutes and not even touch your question. I said thats what you call a great professional. Let me just tell you, its really a fair question, and its something were looking at. Its a certain group. And its a pretty big group. Were looking at it. I havent been up there yet. The other people have been talking about it, and they havent spoken to- Theyre talking about it- I know, but theyre talking about it in the 2020 election too, and nobodys gotten to it. Nobodys talked about it at all. I think we will. Yeah. I think were going to get to it. I think were going to get to it. I dont think the other group will get to it. They havent even-  I dont think the other group will get to it. They havent even spoken about it and its a big group of people. No, not committing but its something were going to look at. I cant commit. I have to get approval from it. I have a thing called Congress, but its something were going to look at and we have been looking at it. If there is a phase four, but were certainly looking at certain things. We want to help restaurants, entertainment. We want to help because its jobs. Not the restaurants, its jobs, tremendous amounts of jobs. So were looking at that. Were looking at infrastructure. When you think of it, we will have spent $8 trillion and way back. Were way pulled back, but we will have spent $8 trillion in the Middle East and yet our roads are in bad shape. Our bridges, our tunnels, bad shape. Were going to be the talk of the world again soon, but we want two trillion. We will have spent in the Middle East and all we got out of it was death and cost. But all we got out of it was death. Millions of people. You have to look at the other side too. Millions and millions of people killed. Our great soldiers, thousands killed, so many wounded, hurt. Yet when we want to go and fix a road someplace, we want to do what we want to do in our country. Its time that we spend money on our country. Thats what were going to do.  Its time that we start spending on our roads and our bridges and our schools, and all of the things that were supposed to be spending on. People are finally getting used to it. You could look at all of what weve done in the Middle East, way back in so many different places, way back in other countries too by the way. Ive gone to other countries that are very rich. I said, Im sorry, youre going to have to reimburse us for our costs. They dont even want to know what Im talking about. It takes them 20 minutes to figure it out because nobodys ever asked them to do that and theyre doing it. Theyre doing it and they have no choice. They have to do it. So its time that we start spending on the USA. Please. Many countries all over the world want to know whether or not they could use, especially our new test that was just developed by Abbott, which is almost instantaneous, which is going to be great. Remember this, we inherited. The word is we inherited bad tests, we literally inherited bad tests. These are horrible tests and it was broken. It was all broken and we fixed it. Were doing millions of tests. Sometimes we send out a test and its not used. In many cases it wasnt used, but we worked with the States and the testing has been pretty amazing. Especially considering the fact that we inherited a very broken system. Jeff. I am looking at hotspots. I am looking where flights are going into hotspots. Some of those flights I didnt like from the beginning, but closing up every single flight on every single airline, thats a very, very, very rough decision. But we are thinking about hotspots where you go from spot to spot, both hot. Well let you know fairly soon. Similar thing. We have trains going back and forth. People dont think of trains, but we do a lot of transportation business. Its a very big decision to do that. Were pretty late in the process from the standpoint that this is starting. Youre going to start seeing, I think over the next couple of weeks, youre going to start to see us hit a top and start coming down. So well make those decisions. Those are very, very big decisions from the standpoint of the future of our country in a way, in the future of our country. We have to get our country back. We have to start moving again. We have to start working again. Theyre doing tests on airlines, very strong tests for getting on, getting off. Theyre doing tests on trains, getting on, getting off. But when you start closing up entire transportation systems and then opening them up, thats a very tough thing to do. The re use. I love the sterilization of the masks. Ohio Company, you can sterilize the N95. You can sterilize that mask for up to 20 times. Think of that, up to 20 times. Were throwing them out and theyre very expensive masks. Theyre throwing them out. I kept saying, one of the first questions I asked to Dr. Fowchee. I said, why arent they sterilized or cleaning the masks? Because it wasnt my thing exactly when we first heard about this. Nobody else knew it either. Now we have a company and I guess a number of companies, one in Ohio, a great one that makes equipment where you can sterilize a mask up to 20 times, which is fantastic. I dont believe. Look, theres a big thing. A lot of people dont like it. Some people dont like it because youre taking it away from the medical professional. Some people dont like it for other reasons. I dont see where it hurts and it doesnt have to be a mask. It can be a scarf. Scarf is highly recommended by the professionals. I dont see where it hurts. I think frankly, if people wanted to do it, we dont want to do anything thats going to take masks. Youre talking about a tremendous amount of masks when you do that. We dont want to take them away from our medical professionals, but I certainly dont see it hurting. But what I do see people doing now is using scarves. I think in a certain way, depending on the fabric, I think in a certain way the scarf is better. Its actually better. Yeah, please. You . My biggest disappointment is that churches cant meet in a time of need. This is really a great time for churches to be together, for people to get together on a Sunday or any day and meet. Yet, if you do that, if you do it close, youre really giving this invisible enemy a very big advantage. So its the biggest, I think the single biggest disappointment. One of the reasons I said, wouldnt it be great just to pick a date as I called it aspirational. An aspirational date would be Easter. I will tell you, its very, very disappointing. But again, you get too close and if somebodys sick, youre going to probably catch it. So you have to be very careful. . Did he write the statement or get did PR person write it? Good. . Thats okay. Sure. Oh absolutely. Id love to. Id love to speak to him too. Id be in  I always found him to be a nice guy. I dont know him very well, frankly, but I think hes probably a nice guy. No, if hed like to call it, Id absolutely take his call. You can tell him. And no ammunition. Maybe no ammunition. We didnt do that. That turned out to be a false story. Now youre starting to go. What are you working for, CNN?  with Fox. Fox isnt so easy either. Dont kid yourself. Look, John, let me tell you something. You know thats a false story. What you just said is a false story. This doctor knows it better than anybody. No, but you shouldnt be repeating a story that you know is false. All right. Whos next? Please, go ahead in the back. You didnt get one. Its very sad whats happening in Iran. Look, we have to talk to them. I think we could work out a deal with Iran very quickly. All they have to do is call. I just think that theyre proud people and the leadership is proud. Theyre proud like all of us. Were proud you. You people are proud. Theyre having a hard time picking up the phone or theyre having a hard time setting up the meeting, but they could fix their country pretty easily. We dont want hostility, but if they are hostile to us, theyre going to regret it like theyve never regretted anything before, as per todays statement. But all they have to do is call or have somebody call. There are channels where we can deal very easily. Again, I think that John Kerry did a tremendous disservice. I think he violated the Logan Act 100%. thats what I think. I think it made it tough for them because they were dealing with them for years.  It was a terrible deal. All of that money, $150 billion plus cash, plus cash, plane loads of cash, for a deal that was no good and was short term. Essentially it was a short term deal. Who makes a deal for that kind of money and $1.8 billion in cash? I dont even know what that would look like. That would be this room would have to be filled up five times with hundred dollar bills. Who makes a deal like this? Then on top of it, the deal is no good. All right. How about one or two more? Mexican violence? It could be. Its another cost of not getting our country working. Some people are getting along great. Ive also had the exact opposite question. Families are coming together. Theyre actually coming together. They havent talked for a long time and now all of a sudden theyre talking again, theyre loving each other. So Ive heard that too, but I also have heard domestic violence at a higher level. And drug use because of, in this case, theyd lose their jobs. They had a great job, they had a great life, they have a great family. All of a sudden the husbands told that he doesnt have a job anymore and hes got no money, and that brings drugs into it. That brings suicide into it. Its a terrible thing. We have to get our country going again. We did the right thing. We had no choice. We did the right thing.  Other countries tried to use the herd or the herd mentality. Its just something that doesnt work. Just to say, I heard Sweden gave it a shot and they saw things that were really frightening. They went immediately to shutting down the country. We did the right thing and we did it early. We did it early and we stopped other people from coming into our country early. But no, thats a cost. Ive been talking about that. People will say, what are you talking about? But you will have. Youll have that. Youll have domestic violence. Youll have violence. Youll have suicide. Youll have drug addiction. A lot of people are going to be lost. We want to get this open as soon as we can. I mean, Ill be the happiest person. So will you, everyone in this room happy when we get the word that this is the time. We have our common sense and theyll give me a decision or theyll be making certain statements. I think Ill know how to interpret those statements very well. Ill be with Mike, Ill be with the task force. Ill be with a lot of very talented people, including the two people on stage with us. But I look forward, thatll be a great day. Thatll be a great day. All right. How about one more please? Sure.  While youre up, could you talk about how tight that southern border is right now? But I am glad you asked that question because we want the farmers, theyve had this for years. We want the farmers to be able to get the people that have been working those farms for years or were not going to have farms. So theyre going to come in and theyre going to be given a certain pass. Were going to check them very, very closely, especially over the next month. Because remember after a month or so, I think once this passes, were not going to have to be hopefully worried too much about the virus, but we want them to come in. Were not closing the border so that we cant get any of those people to come. Theyve been there for years and years. Ive given the commitment to the farmers theyre going to continue to come or were not going to have any farmers. One more question. Who are you with, by the way? Boy, amazing. Who else please? Were looking at the two ships. We have Canada notified, a lot of Canadians, a lot of British on the ship. Theyre coming to take the people that are on the ship back to their homeland. Canadas coming, UK is coming, and we have Americans. We have some people that are quite sick and were taking care of that. Im speaking with the governor about that a lot and its a tough situation. Its a tough situation. You can understand you have people that are sick on those ships. States dont want to take, they have enough problems right now. They dont want to take them, but we have to from a humane standpoint. We dont have a choice. Its like I dont want to do that, but we have to. People are dying. Were going to do something. Were going to do something. At a minimum, were sending medical teams on board the ships. Were taking the Canadians off and giving them to Canadian authorities. Theyre going to bring them back home. The same thing with the UK, but we have to help the people. Theyre in big trouble. No matter where, no matter where theyre from. Happened to be Americans, largely Americans. But whether they were or not, I mean theyre dying. So we have to do something. The governor knows that too. Well were sending a lot of them home. Were sending a lot of them home to their countries, but well be doing something and well be announcing it. Youll see what were doing. But were also putting medical staff onto the ships so that we can  we have to take care of the people. No you wont actually. You know. I had heard that. Now, I dont know. Do you know that answer Mike? It sounds like it. We could get back. Its a process that theyre working on. Well get back to you as soon as we find out. All right, one more please. I did. I spoke to him. Hes great. Hes a great guy and hes doing a wonderful job from Brazil.  Spoke to him this morning and just a very complimentary call. Hes working very hard. Hes got a problem with the virus, got a big problem. We talked about it today at length. We had a call this morning and Brazil is shut down as you know. They werent going to shut it down, but they had to. So Brazil is shut down. The world is shut down. Nobodys ever seen anything like this. The entire world is shut down. You go from having the most powerful economy in the world and from other countries that are doing well, to being everything is shutdown. Its very sad, but were going to get it going and were going to be stronger than ever. I really believe that. Were going to be stronger. Were going to have a big bounce, a very big bounce when this is gone. I just want to thank the American people. I want to thank these great professionals and I want to thank the media because really for the most part, the media has been very fair. Thank you very much everybody."
"Okay. Thank you very much. Good to be with you all. Were in a very critical phase of our war against the coronavirus. Its vital that every American follows our guidelines on the 30 days to slow the spread. The sacrifices we make over the next four weeks will have countless American lives saved. Were going to save a lot of American lives. Were in control of our own fate, very much so. Maintaining social distance, practicing vigorous hygiene and staying at home are your most effective ways to win the war and to escape danger.  While youre fighting this battle from home were working with the best scientists, doctors, and researchers anywhere in the world. Were racing to develop new ways to protect against the virus as well as therapies, treatments, and ultimately a vaccine, and were making a lot of progress, I think medically a lot of progress.  At the same time, were also racing to get relief to American workers and small businesses, as you know. I want to remind small business owners across America that the paycheck protection program is launching tomorrow. Nearly $350 billion in loans will be available to small businesses including sole proprietors. These loans are up to 100% forgivable as long as employers keep paying their workers, got to take care of your workers.  Furthermore, we want Social Security beneficiaries to know that if they are typically not required to file a tax return, they dont have to file one in order to receive the direct cash payments that will soon be distributed to American citizens. The treasury will deposit the money directly into the bank accounts, and dont forget, I will always protect your Social Security, your Medicare and your Medicaid. Were protecting Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid and I always will.  Id like now to invite SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza who is doing a fantastic job. Shes going to be very busy in the next little while and Secretary Steve Mnuchin to say a few words about these vital initiatives and then well get onto the attack of the virus itself and please if I might, Steve and Jovita. Thank you Steve. For Jovita or Steve, any questions? Thank you all. Thank you, Steve. Good job. Thank you. Okay, so that begins right away and they start handing out checks, and a lot of people are going to have their businesses built back up quickly I hope. And well see it. Complicated big small businesses, actually big business. So I thank them both. And please, we have some great gentlemen. Let me see, great gentlemen. Thats correct. Thank you very much.  Today, my administration is also issuing new guidelines to protect elderly Americans who remain the most vulnerable. By now, nursing homes should have suspended the entry of all medically unnecessary personnel. Today were further recommending that all nursing home facilities assign the same staff to care for the same group of residents consistently to minimize any potential spread, and were also urging facilities to designate separate areas for healthy and sick residents. And this is a practice that we probably will be recommending into the future long after the enemy has gone, this particular enemy is gone.  Were also making every effort to provide relief to our great veterans. We take very good care of our veterans. At my direction Secretary Wilkie will use any authority at his disposal to extend deadlines for benefits and to postpone debt collections. Were now conducting well over 100,000 coronavirus tests per day. Its over 100,000 tests a day, and these are accurate tests and theyre moving rapidly, which is more than any other country in the world, both in terms of the raw number and also on a per capita basis the most.  The FDA has also authorized the first coronavirus antibody test developed a body Cellex, a key step that will help identify people who have recovered and to understand their immune response and their immune system. Moments ago I directed Secretary Azar, and acting Secretary Wolf to use any and all available authority under the Defense Production Act to ensure that domestic manufacturers have the supplies they need to produce ventilators for patients with severe cases of C-O-V-I-D-19. You know what that is, right? Become a very famous term C-O-V-I-D. COVID.  This action will help General Electric Hill-Rom, Medtronic, Resmed, Royal Phillips, and Vyaire Medical overcome obstacles in the supply chain that threaten the rapid production of ventilators. We have over 100,000 being built right now or soon to be started. We anticipate issuing more orders under the Defense Production Act in the very near future. In addition to the one that Ive just signed against 3M for face masks, we just signed an element of the act against 3M and hopefully theyll be able to do what they are supposed to do.  Just spoke to Mary Barra of General Motors and she said theyre very soon going to be ready to start production of the ventilators. They have a lot of ventilators that theyve committed to build, and theyll be starting very, very quickly. FEMA continues to deliver resources to areas most effected by the virus, including New York. On top of the 3,000 beds were already providing to the Javits Center, the Department of Defense is adding another 48 ICU beds.  Governor Cuomo has asked that this facility go and its a big beautiful facility. Itd be converted to a COVID hospital and we hadnt done that yet. We hadnt thought in terms of doing that, but their use is, their real demand is for that. And we had meetings on it with the task force. We had meetings with the military and Ive decided to say, yes, Im going to do that. That I will be signing and agreeing to a yes answer so that we will be doing that and also we will be staffing it so the federal government is doing a lot of things that wasnt anticipated that it do. This is a 2,500 and/or 2,900, can easily be set up, hospital built in Javits Center. And so were going to be converting that to a COVID-19 hospital and its going to be a staffed by the military and by the federal government.  And based on the fact that I agreed to that, we had two other facilities that will likewise asking for it and that would be in Louisiana and also in Dallas and well be doing those. We spoke to the governor of Louisiana, spoke to the governor of Texas, and weve told them that we will be staffing those hospitals again above and beyond, but thats okay. We have to do that. In addition to USNS Comfort is docked in New York to accept patients that is non-COVID.  To date FEMA has delivered more than 4 million N95 mask respirators. Think of that, 4 million, 4 million. Dont forget were a secondary source. The states are doing it and were backing them up, but weve gotten 4 million N95 respirators, 1.8 million surgical masks, 460,000 face shields, 1.4 million gloves and 4,400 ventilators just to the city and to the State of New York and some of them now are being sent. I spoke with both the Governor Cuomo and Mayor De Blasio a little while ago and some of them are being sent to the city.  All of America stands with the people of New York in this time of need. Its definitely a hot spot, but we have other hotspots also and were taking care of them very, very strongly, very powerfully. We have the finest people in the world in those locations and I think the federal government has not only acted early but acted quickly, professionally. Theres no people like this. Doctors, nurses, first responders and other healthcare providers who want to help New York at this critical time should visit website, nyc.gov/helpnow. Nyc.gov/helpnow. they need help now. They need people to help them.  We have great facilities and weve built some brand new facilities, big ones, but we need help. We need help for professional people. So if youre in an area that isnt so affected, and youre a doctor, a nurse, a health care worker, please get to that website and we would really appreciate your help. New York city needs it. Louisiana, by the way, needs it. Michigan needs it. Whatever you can do, those are very strong hotspots. They need help.  In recent weeks, as the virus has spread and economic hardship has followed, we have seen Americans unite with incredible selflessness and compassion. I want to remind everyone here in our nations capital, especially in Congress, that this is not the time for politics, endless partisan investigations. Here we go again. Ive already done extraordinary damage to our country in recent years. You see what happens. Its a witch hunt after witch hunt after witch hunt and in the end the people doing the witch hunt have been losing and theyve been losing by a lot, and its not any time for witch hunts, its time to get this enemy defeated. Conducting these partisan investigations in the middle of a pandemic is a really big waste of vital resources, time, attention, and we want to fight for American lives, not waste time and build up my poll numbers cause thats all theyre doing. Because everyone knows its ridiculous.  So we want to focus on the people of this country, even the people of the world, were going to be able to help them because right now, as an example, were building so many ventilators, very, very hard to build, but were building thousands, thousands of them and a lot of them will be coming at a time where we wont need them as badly because it takes time. Very complex, very expensive. And well be able to help outside of our country. We think well be able to help. Thats something that you cannot easily produce. As citizens were linked together by the shared bonds of national love, loyalty, and affection.  Were linked together by the shared bonds of national love, loyalty, and affection. Theres no earthly force more powerful than the patriotic pride that stirs in our hearts. And that is so true.  Its incredible the job that everybodys been doing. Everybody. They dont sleep. They dont go to bed. Sometimes they get nothing. Said to somebody recently on the task force, how many hours sleep have you gotten over the last couple of days? The answer was none. None.  In one Massachusetts neighborhood citizens come out of their homes each night at eight oclock from their porches and they sing God Bless America. Others have joined in spreading from house to house down one street up to the next until their little town with a spirit of patriotism and reminding all Americans that were all in this together. Well fight together and we will win together. Were going to win this.  Now what Id like to do is Im going to step out.  We have a meeting on the subject and Im going to step out just for a few moments. Ill be right back. Well answer some questions. But you have some very hardworking people who have done an incredible job led by Vice President Mike Pence, head of the task force. And then Jared Kushner is going to say a few words and Admiral , Peter Navarro, Dr. Birx and myself.  Ill be right back. So Ill see you in a little while. I did take a test. It just came out. This is from the white house physician. It just came out. I just took it this morning. And I took it. It took me literally a minute to take it and it took me, I guess it was 14 or 15 minutes. I went to work. I didnt wait for it, but he said it took 14 minutes or something to come up with a conclusion and it said the President tested negative for COVID 19.  So thats the second one. I think I took it really out of curiosity to see how quickly it worked and fast it worked and its a lot easier. Ive done them both. And the second one is much more pleasant, Jeff, I can tell you that. Much more pleasant.  So Ill be back in a little while and Mike please take over. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Ill be right back. And coming here.  You did a good job, thank you. Go ahead. Go ahead, answer. You go ahead. Come here. Com here. And by the way, weve cut them out also to be honest. Weve stopped orders going from certain places and In a couple of places we had a big order going to Italy on important outfits and some ventilators and it was going to Italy. They made the order a long time ago and I said, You got to let it go. Theyve had an order and I could have cut it under the act. I could have cut it. I said, Nope, cant do that. Youve got to let it go. They have big problems. We had an order going to Spain and I said, Let it go. I could have stopped it. I said, Let it go. Were going to be fine. I said, Let it go. So it works that way also.  One other thing thats to your question, oftentimes, and weve told this to the governors, Mike, weve been very strong on this. If you think theres bidding between federal government and state, let us know and well drop out immediately or you drop out and we lower the price . No. No. If were bidding against each other I said find out who it is. And usually they know, everyone knows and were notified and we get notified and well either drop out or theyll drop out. But we have another problem. There are 151 countries out there beyond the States. There are 151 countries that have this problem and theyre ordering, too. Its really a mess  Now in a little while the hardest thing to get are the ventilators because it takes a while to build them and we have thousands of them being built right now. In a little while theyll be worth about $5 but right now theyre very valuable and were going to have a lot of them being shipped. In fact, thats why General Motors called up before, Mary. Thats why others called up two days ago. They called up that theyre all in production and theyre starting to arrive in a week and a half, but therell be a time when were going to build stockpiles.  By the way, the States should have been building their stockpile. We have almost 10,000 and our stockpile and weve been building it and weve been supplying it, but the States should be building. Were a backup. Were not an ordering clerk. Were a back up and weve done an unbelievable job. Like for instance, whoever heard of a governor calling up,  Sir, can you build us a hospital of 2,500 rooms? And we built it. Can you build us four medical centers? We built it. Can you deliver a ship, a hospital ship with a thousand rooms? And we did it and we did it in Los Angeles, too. Weve been unbelief. Weve done an unbelievable job These people and thousands of people behind them, but were a backup. Ideally those hospitals would have had all this equipment. Ideally those States should have had all this equipment and I think they will the next time.  You heard the case where thousands of ventilators could have been had at a very inexpensive price three years ago and a certain state decided not to exercise that right because they wanted to build a road or they wanted to build something else because its big money. Youre talking about, I think it was $1 billion, but youre talking about a lot of money for something that may never happen. Because normally on a ventilator other than a pandemic or an epidemic, you wouldnt need anything like this. Hospitals have three ventilators, big hospitals, and they get by with it. And now they want thousands. I mean they want thousands of ventilators. You call up a governor and theyll say, Sir, could you send us 40,000 ventilators? Nobody has ever heard of a thing like this. So theyve done some job. Let me just tell you when secretary Mnuchin spoke, they want you to call not .com but sba.gov, okay? For the application and for information, okay? So its SBA, small business, sba.gov, okay? If you dont mind. Yeah, lets go, please Yeah. I understand the question and were doing better than that. Were going to try and get a cash payment to the people and were working out the mechanics of that with legislature, so were going to try and get them a cash payment because just opening it up doesnt help as much. So were going to work it out so were going to try and get for that certain group of people Its a certain group of people, a cash payment. Well, they have that and they have to work that out. What they should do is they should have, long before this pandemic arrived, they should have been, on the open market, just buying. There was no competition. You could have made a great price. The States have to stock up. Its like one of those things they waited, they didnt want to spend the money because they thought this would never happen and their shelves in some cases were bare. And by the way, in some cases they werent. They were beautifully serviced. They did a good job, but in some cases their shelves were bare.  So the best thing they can do is when times become normalized, and they will hopefully soon And actually youre going to have a lot of excess material because so much is being done right now in terms of protective gear, protective outfits, a lots being done. Its going to be within six months. Its going to be sold for the right price. They got to stack up for the next time. But we are doing that and the Admirals done a fantastic job. Senator Schumer wrote a letter today and he says, you should put a military manager. Just said, well, Chuck, if you knew a little bit more, we have one of the most highly respected people in the military, the Admiral. This is what he does, too. Very professionally. And hes in charge. But Chuck didnt know that.  Okay. I dont know what theyre agreeing to. I think they might agree to more than that. Look, Russia  yeah, we did say that actually. Russia talked about 10 million barrels. Russia and Saudi Arabia are fighting over this and as everybody knows, its really killing an industry, hurting Russia badly, hurting Saudi Arabia badly. I said, This is an easy one. It should be an easy one. And it may be 10 and it may be more than that. I was actually told it may be 10 as I told somebody before, it may be 10 and it may be more than that. Maybe its 15 maybe it goes up to 15 could be as high as 15 and theres a tremendous oversupply right now. That industry was oversupplied before the virus and where the virus came along, they lost 35, 40% of the world.  And theres an unbelievable You cant get a ship now. Every ship is loaded to the gills sitting out someplace in the ocean. Theyre storage tanks, theyre not even ships, theyre storage tanks. So it would be great for Russia. It would be great for Saudi Arabia. I hope they make that deal. But thats what they told me. They said its  Well, I think itll be hopefully soon. I think hopefully theyll announce something soon. Now can a deal be broken? Can something happen where it doesnt happen? I guess in which case theres another alternative, but Id rather not see that other alternative. I hope they can make a deal. I think they both want to make a deal and theyre both smart. They love their countries, they want to make a deal. Its good, but its also good for the world if they do because you save an industry. Go ahead. Go ahead in the back. We went over this very specifically and Ill let you talk about it, Mike, as you responded last time. No, but I talked to him about it and he wants to do whats right for the people of Florida. Hes been a great governor. You could see that just by his popularity, which is extraordinary. Were proud of him. Hes done a fantastic job. And he made the decision, but we spoke before he made the decision. Yes. That I havent heard, no. That I havent heard. I havent heard that. Well, I think theyre going to be coming out with regulations on that and if people want to abide by them, frankly, I dont think theyll be mandatory because some people dont want to do that. But if people want As an example on the masks, if people wanted to wear them, they can. If people wanted to use scarves, which they have, many people have them, they can. In many cases the scarf is better. Its thicker. Depending on the material, its thicker. But they could do that if they want. Now a recommendations coming out. Well see what that recommendation is.  But I will say this, they can pretty much decide for themselves right now. All right. Maybe I will ask Dr. Burkes. And you might mention that other point also. They are being made. Theyre moving very quickly. We didnt discuss that. They want to do that. Thats good for their countries and we did not discuss that now.  were going to wait a little while because I understand theres a news conference by the secretary of defense about that. But you know, I dont agree with that at all. Not at all. Not even a little bit. Yeah. Well, they have experts and frankly long after we came out and talked about it Look, how would I have known to cut off China? I cut off China very early and if I didnt, we would have a chart that you wouldnt believe. So how would I know to do that? How would I know to cut off Europe? I cut off Europe very early. You have to make a decision. People knew that some bad things were going on and they got off to a late start and some others got off to a late start also, but we cut off China. If we didnt cut off China, we would have been in some big trouble and we cut it off and you know what? We cut it off way early. Go ahead Okay, go ahead. Who are you with? So we havent discussed it but were talking to them. Getting them not to pay copays in the case of the big ones was a tremendous thing. Thats a lot of money they gave up, but were discussing that with the insurance companies. Well let you know. Itll be pretty quickly. Yeah, go ahead. Well, were looking at a lot of things and a lot of different bans. We have more bans than anybody. We had bans when bans werent fashionable, if you remember right at the beginning of this administration was for different reasons. But weve had bans long before people thought of bans. When I did China, it had never been done before. I was the first one to do to remember that it had never, according to what I read it all the papers, this had never been done. This is a terrible thing to do. And four weeks later they were all saying, were lucky we did it. So were looking at it. No, we heard that. And I think its fine that they do that. Theyre trying to protect their country and we have to protect our country. Yeah, please. Hes a good governor, Brian Kemp. Hes a very good  hes a good. Hes a good governor and he has to make his own decision on that. I let the States I think were about 85% a positive on that. If you look, I think its about 85% of the States have got the stay at home. Brians a great governor. Its his decision. He made that decision. Ultimately he decided to go along with it and theyre doing well and the state is doing well in many respects. Yeah, go ahead please. Were accepting it. It was a very nice offer from President Putin. I spoke to him the other night as I told you, and they had excess medical equipment, things and Ill take it, Ill take it. I think its very nice.  Weve had some from China. We also help other countries. We like doing that. Like I said before, if we have excess stuff, we let it go out. We let some go out where frankly they had orders for it and I didnt want to stop orders. It was a very nice gesture on behalf of President Putin and I could have said No thank you or I could have said Thank you and it was a large plane of very high quality medical supplies and I said,  Ill take it. I think he would if we asked for it, but he was very nice. It was part of the call he suggested. He said, we have it, its additional. They have very big difficulties with this virus also, as you know, Russia. I thought it was a very nice gesture on behalf of President Putin. I couldve said, No, I dont want it. Or I could have said, Ill take it, and you know what? I said, Ill take it. I think so. Yeah. If they sent things that we need, Id take it. Sure. Nice gesture. Im not concerned about Russian propaganda. Not even a little bit. He offered a lot of medical, high quality stuff that I accepted, and that may save a lot of lives. Ill take it everyday. Please. In the back. Well, theyre very hard hit. Theyre very hard hit.  In a lot of ways theyre hard hit. Theyre hard hit with their economy, with their military.  Hard hit. They are hit with their economy, with their military, and obviously the virus. Theyre very hard hit. Well, they havent even asked us to do that. You know what? They havent even asked us to do that. If they want to meet, would love to meet and wed love to settle the whole thing out, but I doubt theyll be. I think they love America. I think the Iranians love America. I think theyd love to be free. I think theyd love to have just some of the things that we have. I remember Iran many years ago, friends of mine were always in Iran. They were doing real estate deals in Iran. They were building beautiful buildings all over Iran. Apartment houses. They were very successful and then one day that came to an end, but you know what? The people of Iran, they remember that. It was a long time ago, but not so long ago, and they remember it. And Ill tell you, they love America. They love what we stand for and were not looking for change. Were not looking for government takeover. Government change. This country has been through that many times. That doesnt work. No, but what I did is I put it out very publicly with respect to Iran. I said, if they need help with respect to the virus, we have the greatest medical professionals in the world. Wed love to send them over. Im not encouraging or discouraging. Theyve been a very hostile country. They made a deal that President Obama should have never made. It was a short-term deal, giving them $150 billion, giving them $1.8 billion in cash. Green. Fill up this room five times. Nobodys even asked. I have a moral responsibility to help them if they ask. If they needed help, I would certainly consider different plans. Well, thats up to the United Nations. Im talking about us and what happens is, if they wanted help, because they have a very big case of virus. A very, very big case. One of the worst on earth, if you believe what youre reading. And I happen to believe what I see and what I know and if they wanted help, wed give them help. Yeah, you had one in the back. Or they dont exist. Those sources dont exist. Theyre fake sources. A lot of fake sources out there. They dont exist. For a lot of time Ive been reading, a lot of the fake sources they dont exist. The national stockpile, But Deborah, arent you referring to just a few states because many of those States are dead flat?  But, again, I look at the graphs all the time and you have many, many flatliners. I call them flatliners. Im amazed at that. And you have a couple that are up. Its hard to blame the flatliners for not doing a good job. Yeah, because I saw those pens going five minutes ago. They were thrilled. The fact is, yes, we compare them to Italy, one place, and we have many places that are really doing, and I think thats what Deborah meant. She didnt mean all of them, so when you write your story tomorrow, maybe youll write it correctly. She was talking about one state and another state is having a hard time and theyre closely associated. By the way, the people are doing a very good job, including the people that live there. But, when Deborah was talking about Italy, she was talking about the one and then the other was lower and then you have mostly states that have been unbelievable. So, she wasnt talking about the average of everything.  She was talking about an individual state, which is, I think, still better than Italy. Italy is having a hard time. By the way, Spain is having a hard time. France is having a hard time, but our states, generally speaking, its like lots of different countries all over. Many of those countries are doing a phenomenal job. Theyre really flat and I think thats what you meant. I dont know. I dont want to speak for her.  But thats what I understood she meant. Yeah, please. Because some states they stay in better, theyre not touching, whatever it is. Theyre not going out. Theyre not in groups and some states are not probably as good for whatever reason, or they also live a lot closer. New York is very dense, and California is pretty dense too and theyve got a very good record going so far. We hope it doesnt spike up, but its very flat. We have states that are doing incredibly well. When I looked at some of them, I looked at some states that I wouldve thought maybe wouldnt have done as well, and theyre really flatlined. Hope they stay that way. I hope they stay that way.  I want them. Thats what Im saying. No. But when Debra mentioned about Italy and our country, she wasnt referring to our country. She was referring to one state. Okay, so my understanding  Im going to let her say it, but I think that everybody would have to be thrilled with the way most States are doing. Thrilled. The flatline states, states that have almost no bump. I mean, I would think  now, then you others where for whatever reason, theyre higher. Thats different, but you cant condemn people living in a flatliner with people living in something where theres the big bump or the bigger bump or more akin to Italy where they have some very unique problems. In all fairness to Italy, they have some very unique problems. But if youd like to come up and- A lot of them. Thats exactly  I think thats perfect. So, I just want to say, many states have started low and slow and then they stayed at a good level. Some really stayed at a great level. Louisianas an example. It was low and slow, and they were looking great. I was watching it because its a place people go to with Mardi Gras, which is an interesting point because after Mardi Gras it was low and then all of a sudden it went up very rapidly and now its one of our true hotspots. Certain areas of Michigan. Detroit looked like it was doing pretty good and then all of a sudden it went up. So, you have that too. But Ill tell you what, we have states that have been really incredible in the fact that they have kept so low. You havent seen the bump and I hope you dont. I hope you dont.  And you have a couple that, for a lot of different reasons, and thats not to blame anybody, but they are at a higher level. But very few. I think, Deborah, I mean, I may say, I think most people have actually followed the presidential you can call them whatever you want. I would never use the word dictates because if I used that word I would be in such trouble. In fact, youll put me in trouble just that I even mentioned the thought of it. But we make a recommendation and I think theyve done a good job. Maybe they started a little later, but maybe theyre also more difficult states. But weve done I think on average really phenomenally as a country. I think weve done phenomenally because when you looked at that graph the other day, I dont know if you saw it, I assume you saw it.  Everybody in the world saw it, but you look at all those lines on the bottom, one color after another, all different representing different states. Its all crowded at the bottom. And then you had two that were up. I dont know, almost every one of them was down low, very low. So, there were a lot of people listening and I just want it clear because I dont need headlines tomorrow. Neither does the country because I dont want this country working so hard and then have press, in this case, may be misinterpret something because when I heard it, I was surprised at first too. But I understood what Deborah meant. Because I think its very important for you to be accurate. One other thing, just a quick thing. So, what I found is when governors called me, I think in every case theyve always been so nice, so nice and Ive seen them and heard them say Thank you, very much.  You have done a great job, a fantastic job in one case. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Then Ill see the governor, usually of the opposite party in almost all cases except maybe one, but in almost all cases theyre very generous. Theyre very nice. They thank me, everythings great. Were doing a great job. And then Ill see him on television and its like a different person. And I realize there are some people, because of politics, that if they say, We want a thousand ventilators and Ill say, No, Jim. I want to give you 5,000 ventilators.  Theyll say, Thank you. You are the greatest president thats ever lived. And then Ill see them quoted in a paper or see them on a show and theyll say, The president didnt come through for me. Im very disappointed in the president. And we have a lot of that. Theyre very happy when they talk to me, Then I see them. But there are some people, if they asked for 500 of something and if I gave him 5,000, youll say, Hows the president doing? Well, we dont like the job. To my face theyre very nice. But, then sometimes, I guess they assume I dont watch them or something, but I watch very closely. Yeah, please. Well, theres vulnerable and then theres close together. I cant tell you about age, but a lot of young people in prison. Some people, some states, I have not done that at all, but some states are letting people out of prison. Some people are getting out that are very serious criminals in some states, and I dont like that. I dont like it. But its a city or state thing, in certain cases, as you know. I think, maybe Philadelphia comes to mind. So, well have to see whats going on. We dont like it. The people dont like it. And were looking in to see if I have the right to stop it in some cases. Okay? Oh, I think its terrible. I think its terrible. So, look, four weeks ago we had the greatest economy in the history of the world. The greatest in the world. Greatest in the history of the world. We had the most jobs ever in the history of the United States. Almost 160 million jobs. Right? And then one day, I get a call from Deborah whos fantastic and from Dr. Fauci and he said, and she said, We have a problem. I said, Whats the problem? And they said, We may have to close it up. I said, Close what up? They said, Close up the country. I said, Whats that all about? And we discussed today and probably not since 1917, came to that conclusion, and she is a fantastic person, a brilliant person, and this is what she knows. I said, Has it ever been this bad? And I think I can represent that you said no. And part of it is its a contagion.  Its so contagious. Its like if you sneeze, I probably get it. Whoever heard of a thing like that? And this very talented reporter is bailing out. Hes out of here. I dont blame you, but its a very contagious thing, probably the likes of which weve never seen in terms of that. But 1917, so thats over a hundred years ago. But its been written about many, many times. That was a horrible  whether it was 75 or 100 million people, Ive heard from 50 to 75 Ive heard 75 to 100, but it was tens of millions of people. Now, we have the advantage of communication. This could have been just as bad. I mean, here we can read on the internet, we can see what to do, we can have these meetings, they can watch on television, which they do. A lot of people are watching. A lot of people are watching, and they say, Gee, social distancing.  But in 1917 they didnt have that option. They didnt know what to do. They just noticed people were dying all over the place. Think of it. 75 to 100 million people died. A lot of people in this country died. To me, its a great question, how come more people didnt die in this country? And they say it actually started in this country and went to Europe. I mean, we lost a lot of people, but relatively we lost very few compared to Europe. So, this is a terrible thing that happened and whats happening now with people in jobs. So, think of the position Im in. We have built all together, everybody, not me, everybody, the greatest economy in history, and all of a sudden people come in that we respect, that we know, and heres the thing, they were right. Everybody questioned it for a while.  Not everybody, but a good portion questioned it. They said, Lets keep it open. Lets ride it. If we did that, you saw the other graph, and whether its true or almost true or maybe not true enough, the number was 2.2 million people wouldve died. 2.2 million people wouldve died in a short period of time. In fact, the graph could have been even shorter. I always noticed that horrible one where it goes high, it actually comes down a little bit faster. It mightve been over faster, and you would have lost 2.2 million people. So, they come in and they say, We have to close up the country. And I say, You know what that does to the fabric of this country? To people that had great jobs, great family, no problems with money? Their 401k, everything is perfect. Then all of a sudden, they go from that to having no job in one day they never even thought of it and then you see 6 million people unemployed.  Unemployment numbers get released and you see 6 million people and its an artificial closing. Its not like we have a massive recession or worse. Its artificial because we turned it off. Think of what were doing. Were saying, Dont go to work and well pay you. Everythings the opposite. It was always Go to work and make a lot of money and do well and the American dream. Because of a hidden enemy were saying, Dont go to work and were going to pay you. Look at the money, $2 trillion and we will probably do more. I think infrastructure would be a fantastic thing to do. You want to get the restaurants back. You give deductibility. You understand what that is. You give deductibility for businesses where they go, and they use the restaurants. The restaurants will be bigger and better than they were before.  People dont know, a lot of restaurants closed when they ended deductibility and then they started doing well, but they had fewer restaurants. But the boom of the restaurants is when they had deductibility, where corporations could use them. And entertainment, that was a great thing, but they closed it and then they closed it again and it wasnt the same. But you want to get them back. You do that. But infrastructure, we borrow our money now at zero. If we were paying 5%, 4%, 3% its a different ball game. We can borrow long-term for zero. Literally zero. You know that because were considered the safe investment all over the world. They want money in the United States. Thats where they want the money. So, I know better than anybody. I know what theyre going through and its horrible, but you know what I want to do?  I want to be able to get them back fast. When this is over, its going to be a day were going to celebrate because everyones going to go to work and I think were going to have boom times. I think its going to be great, and weve learned a lot. Weve learned about borders; weve learned about reliance on other countries. Weve learned so much that I think we really have a chance to be bigger and better and stronger, and I think its going to come back very quickly, but first we have to defeat this enemy, so we will see you tomorrow. Thank you very much."
"With Kevin McCarthy, future speaker of the house, I hope. And hes done a fantastic job for the people of California. And also the people of California have done a fantastic job, when you take a look at the bump, and how theyre doing out there. I congratulate everybody out there, but I thought Id have Kevin say a few words. So Kevin, please. Great job youre doing. Thank you. You go ahead. Ill talk to you later. Okay. Thank you very much everybody. And I want to start by saying that our hearts go out to the people of New York as they bear the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic in America. That seems to be the hotspot right now. But you have some others as you know, that are very bad, very bad. Louisiana is getting hit very hard. Parts of Michigan are getting hit very, very hard. New Jersey is surprisingly, its much greater than anybody would have thought. Theyre doing a really good job. Governor is doing a really good job out there.  New Yorks first responders, EMTs, doctors, nurses are showing incredible courage under pressure. Theyre the best in the world. We will take every action and well spare no resource, financial, medical, scientific, we will not spare anything. Well get it back into shape. The Empire State, the governors doing an excellent job. Theyre all working very hard together. At the request of the Governor, as you know, the Javits Center We have 2,500 beds and were going to allow that to be a system where this horrible disease can be looked after. The patients can be looked after. That was going to be for regular medical problems such as accidents. Its very interesting, the Governor is telling me, We dont have too many accidents, very few people driving. So were going to put that facility into play, which is a big facility. The ship will be staying the way it is, but were putting that facility into play to help them.  And today also the CDC is announcing additional steps Americans can take to defend against the transmission of the virus. From recent studies we know that the transmission from individuals without symptoms is playing a more significant role in the spread of the virus than previously understood. So, you dont seem to have symptoms and it still gets transferred. In light of these studies, the CDC is advising the use of nonmedical cloth face covering as an additional voluntary public health measure. So its voluntary, you dont have to do. They suggested for a period of time, but this is voluntary.  I dont think Im going to be doing it, but you have a lot of ways you can look at it as follows. The CDC is recommending that Americans wear a basic cloth or fabric mask that can be either purchased online or simply made at home, probably material that youd have at home. These face coverings can be easily washed or reused. I want to emphasize that the CDC is not recommending the use of medical grade or surgical grade masks, and we want that to be used for our great medical people that are working so hard and doing some job. Medical protective gear must be reserved for the frontline healthcare workers who are performing those vital services. The new mask guidelines also do not replace CDCs guidance on social distancing, including staying in your home when possible, standing at least six feet apart for a period of time. Again, were going to all come back together here. Were going all come back together. And, practicing hand hygiene, which we should do anyway.  A lot of things I think are going to spill over. Shaking hands, maybe, will stay with our country for a long time beyond this. One of our great doctors was telling me that, as you know, we have flus every year and the number of people killed by the flu is very substantial. He said that if they didnt shake hands, that number would be substantially lower. So maybe some of these things, longterm, will be good. But those guidelines are still the best and the safest way to avoid the infection.  So with the masks its going to be, really, a voluntary thing. You can do it, you dont have to do it. Im choosing not to do it, but some people may want to do it and thats okay. It may be good, probably will. Theyre making a recommendation. Its only a recommendation, its voluntary.  Weve also taken action to ensure no barrier to any American seeking testing or treatment of the coronavirus. The largest insurer nationwide, the Blue Cross Blue Shield system, has now announced that it will not require any copays, which is really something, thats a tremendous statement, from patients of the virus treatment for the next 60 days. Similar to the commitments of Cigna, Humana, Anthem. Those are great companies and theyre all doing the same thing. So copays, for them to do that is a big statement. We appreciate it.  Today I can so proudly announce that hospitals and healthcare providers treating uninsured coronavirus patients will be reimbursed by the federal government using funds from the Economic Relief Package congress passed last month. That was as per the question yesterday, and actually the day before yesterday. This should alleviate any concern uninsured Americans may have about seeking the coronavirus treatment. So that, I think, answers the question pretty well and very much in the favor of our great people.  Im also signing a directive invoking the Defense Production Act to prohibit export of scarce health and medical supplies by unscrupulous actors and profiteers. The Secretary of Homeland Security will work with FEMA to prevent the export of N95 respirators, surgical masks, gloves and other personal protective equipment. We need these items immediately for domestic use, we have to have them. But weve done really well with the purchase of items and youll be hearing about that shortly.  Weve already leveraged the DPA to stop the hoarding and price gouging of crucial supplies. Under that authority, this week the Department of Health and Human Services working with the Department of Justice took custody of nearly 200,000 N95 respirators, 130,000 surgical masks, 600,000 gloves. As well as bottles, many, many, many bottles and disinfectant sprays that were being hoarded. All of this material is now being given to healthcare workers, most of its already been given out. And weve given a lot to New York, a lot to New Jersey, a lot to other places.  In addition, to ensure that health care workers in New York have the protective equipment they need, the federal government in the name of the Department of Defense is providing about 8.1 million N95 respirators, Department of Defense. And weve already given 200,000 of them to New York City. Mayor De Blasio needed them very badly, so we got them to Mayor De Blasio in New York City and they were very grateful. 8.1 million, and were going to be increasing that number from 8.1 million to more. Thats a lot of N95 respirators.  Today my team spoke with the CEO of Oschner Health and the CEO of LCMC, the two largest health systems in New Orleans. They said they feel that they currently have enough ventilators. I think a lot of people are going to have enough ventilators, and masks, and appreciate what we did and all of the things weve been doing with them, working with them. The CEO of Oschner, Warner Thomas, whos really been fantastic I have to say, indicated a need for 230,000 surgical gowns and I instructed FEMA to deliver them tomorrow. Thats Louisiana, New Orleans. 230,000 surgical gowns, theyll have them by tomorrow. Were expanding the role of the armed forces in our response effort because no one is better prepared to win a war than the United States military. And we are in a war, the invisible enemy, remember. Over 9,000 retired Army medical personnel have answered their nations call and are now supporting field hospitals and medical facilities all across the country. Like what I just told you, that Governor Cuomo requested we do something in Javits where weve taken over. And were going to have that manned by the military, because its very tough to get more people in the New York area. So were going to have it manned by the military, Javits Center.  National Guard members have been activated to help States build new treatment centers and assist in the seamless distribution of medical supplies. That includes National Guard. The National Guard is assisting very strongly because the States were, in many cases, unable to have the delivery capability from warehouses and other places that we put the supplies. So Ive given approval to use the National Guard, the various National Guards in the different States. And theyre doing a fantastic job of not only protecting people, but delivering material.  The Army Corps of Engineers has assessed more than 100 facilities in all 50 States and is rapidly building temporary hospitals and alternative care sites in many States. In New York, New Jersey, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin, Ohio. Theyre doing a lot of work in just those States, plus additionals that will be announced probably tomorrow, but theyre doing some job. The Army Corps of Engineers, what a job theyre doing. And FEMA, what a job theyre doing.  As we deploy the power of our military, were also deploying the skill of our doctors, scientists, and medical researchers. We continue to study the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine and other therapies in the treatment and prevention of the virus. We will keep the American people fully informed in our findings. Hydroxychloroquine, I dont know, its looking like its having some good results. I hope that, that would be a phenomenal thing. But we have it right now in, approximately, its increased to 1,500 people. I spoke with Dr. Zucker in New York, terrific guy by the way, hes doing a good job. And I spoke to Governor Cuomo last evening and this morning about it. Its been there for about three and a half days and many other places its being tested, too. And we have a tremendous supply of it. Weve ordered it in the case that it works, and it could have some pretty big impacts. Well see what happens.  My administration is also working to get relief to American workers and businesses. In day one of the Paycheck Protection Program, as Kevin said, more than $3.5 billion in guaranteed loans have been processed to help small businesses keep their workers employed during this unprecedented time. Bank of America has been incredible. Of the big banks, Bank of America has really stepped forward and done a great job. And then you have the community banks, your smaller banks, and were already at three point $5 billion going out to incredible people. But thats way ahead of schedule.  The SBA and the treasury are working around the clock. And our banking partners are really incredible, and theyre ensuring that the money gets to small businesses as quickly as possible. And then the small business, in turn, take care of employees that they would have had to let go. And now theyll keep them, and thats good. Then theyre going to open for business and theyre going to have their employees, and well try and get back to where we were. Eventually, were going to supersede where we were.  The energy industry has been especially hard hit in the crisis. This afternoon I met with Greg Garland of Phillips 66, Dave Hagar of Devon Energy, Harold Hamm of Continental Resources, Jeff Hildebrand of Hilcorp Energy, Vicky Hollub of Occidental Petroleum, Mike Sommers of the American Petroleum Institute, Kelcy Warren of Energy Transfer Partners, Mike Wirth of Chevron, and Darren Woods of ExxonMobil. I informed them that we will be making space available in the strategic petroleum reserve to let American producers store surplus oil that can be sold at a later time. Theres a tremendous abundance of oil, primarily because of the virus. The virus has just stopped demand of everything, including oil. So were working with our great energy companies. These are great companies. They employee tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. Theyve kept America really going for a long time, and no big price hikes, no big anything. I mean, theyve just kept it going and now they got hit. But with all the jobs and all of the good that they do, were going to make sure that they stay in good shape.  America is engaged in a historic battle to safeguard the lives of our citizens, our future society. Our greatest weapon is the discipline and determination of every citizen to stay at home and stay healthy for a long time. We want them to stay healthy for a long time, so stay at home. This is ending, this will end. Youll see some bad things, and then youre going to see some really good things and its not going to be too long.  We will heal our citizens, and we will care for our neighbors, and we will unleash the full might of the United States of America to vanquish the virus. And with that Id like to ask Mike Pence to come up. Vice-President, say a few words. And well have a couple of other quick talks on a couple of subjects, and well take questions.  Its a beautiful Friday in Washington, D.C. and our countrys a great place. And were getting better, were getting better very quickly. This was artificially induced, they said, Close it down, you have to close it down. We closed it down and were healing, and were going to get it better fast. So Mike, if you could come up and say a few words, please. Okay. Lets go. Steve? I just dont want to wear one myself. Its a recommendation. They recommend it. Im feeling good. I just dont want to be doing, I dont know, somehow sitting in the Oval Office behind that beautiful Resolute Desk, the great Resolute Desk. I think wearing a face mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens. I dont know, somehow I dont see it for myself. Maybe Ill change my mind, but this will pass and hopefully itll pass very quickly.  Now, with that being said, if somebody wants to I mean most people can just make something out of a certain material, so its very well designated. Its very simple to do. I wont be doing it personally. Its a recommendation. Okay? Surgeon General, please. Okay. Id talk to the governors. The governors know what theyre doing, theyve been doing a great job. I guess were close to 90% anyway. The states that were talking about are not in jeopardy. No, I would leave it to the governors. I like that from the standpoint of governing and I like that from the standpoint of even our Constitution. I pointed at you. I heard a different voice, I heard a much different voice. Well get you later. Well, a lot of things came out. Its a great industry. Its an important industry. Its a tremendous job-producing industry and its just vital. It was also a very interesting because they all would get the test before they came into the room. You have the head of ExxonMobil, you have all these guys taking the test and they all passed with flying colors. That was good. They left happy in that respect, at least. Theres just an overabundance of oil right now. Oil and gas, tremendous overabundance and it was caused They were doing a great job. They were producing a lot of energy, but then you had the virus come along and it knocked another 35%, maybe 40%, off of the market. Theres too much oil, theres a glut, and these are great companies and theyll figure it out. Its free market. Well figure it out. They were having a competition. Well see how it all works out. I think its going to work out very well. Its going to take a long time to get rid of that. Theres massive excess amount of oil and gas. Massive, like probably theres never been. Where that does work out well, I guess you could say, is for drivers. I think in certain locations, its down to 90 and 95 cents a gallon right now on the road. But we have a tremendous industry, a great industry. Its tremendously important industry from the standpoint of jobs and were energy independent. We have to make sure we keep it that way. All right, please. Didnt know anything about that. That was done by the FDA. Very capable people at the FDA. I dont blame them, they can push back if they want. Were not happy with 3M. Were not happy, and the people that dealt with it directly are not at all happy with 3M. Well see whether or not we do. I heard what he had to say today. I dont know the gentleman, but were not happy with 3M. Go ahead. I dont know. But every time you asked that question, whenever hes not here, you look, you say, Where is he? And youll say, Is there a problem? No problem whatsoever. Every time hes not here. Sometimes Ill ask him to come because thats the first question that you and a couple of others from the Fake News Establishment ask is, Wheres Dr. Fauci? Were doing great together. Were covering a different subject today. Go ahead. Well, I always knew that pandemics are one of the worst things could happen. Theres been nothing like this since probably 1917, that was the big one in Europe. It started actually here and went to Europe, probably. Ive heard about Excuse me. Wait a minute. Let me finish. Ive heard about this for a long time. Pandemics. You dont want pandemics. I dont think he was talking about a specific pandemic, he was talking about the threat of a pandemic could happen and it could happen. Most people thought it wouldnt, and most people didnt understand the severity of it. This is very severe. Whats happened is very severe, but Id let you answer that. I assume that he was talking about the concept of a pandemic. Previous administrations gave us very little ammunition for the military and very little shelf space. Let me just tell you. You know it. You know the answer. The previous administration, the shelves were empty. The shelves were empty. So what you should do is speak to the people from the previous administration, Jim, and ask them that question because the shelves were empty. You know what else? The military shelves were also empty. We had no ammunition, literally, and that was said by one of your favorite generals. Sir, we have no ammunition. Guess what? We had very little medical supply also. All right. Go ahead. Well get it back. Well get you back. Well get you back, please. Jim, I said well get you back. Please go ahead. It covers everything. But if somebody ordered, if Italy, if Spain who has big problems, these are countries with tremendous problems. France, if they ordered, if they have long-term orders and theyre in there and they want to get certain things, Ive let them go out in certain instances because I think its only fair. They have problems that are proportionately or relatively bigger than our problems. So if they ordered something and theyre waiting for, as an example, masks made here and going to Italy, Im not going to be stopping that. I think it would be very unfair.  By the way, speaking about being fair and unfair, two very big cruise liners, as you know, I allowed them to dock today. We worked with the governor of Florida, as you know, Ron DeSantis, and we worked on it, and we had tremendous security. We took the sick people, and were working with them. We have doctors. We have great doctors, military doctors. From a humane standpoint, not that were in love with this, these are two massive ships, but we have to take care of people. We have to take care of them.  We sent many back to Canada. The Canadians came and worked very closely with us as did the UK. We had a lot of people from the UK, and we took care of the Americans. We took care of the sick. We had some people very sick. I think we had three to four, maybe five people that had died on the boat, one of the boats actually, and we had to take care of these people. So we could have let them float aimlessly into the ocean looking for port as theyve been doing for a long time, and I made the decision we had to take them in. Homeland Security and a lot of other people did a great job, but we had to help people. These are people that were very, very sick. Some were dying. Some died. Please. Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead. No, Im not concerned. No. I had a test yesterday. I dont know. I mean, I heard from the oil executives. These are people, most of them had not had the test, and frankly I think they left the room feeling good about a lot of things, but they felt good about the test. This was a test that took, I guess, 13 minutes to have it finalized. They took the test. I dont know. I didnt know they were doing that. Maybe they did it just for them. I dont know. But it seems that a lot of people, because now we have tests that really work well. Abbott, in this case Abbott. We have other tests being developed right now that are also fantastic. The original tests, the ones we inherited, Jim, as an example, they were broken. They were obsolete. They were not good tests, and thats what we got stuck with. Weve developed some incredible tests, but this took 13 to 15 minutes, and they were all fine. Go ahead. Finish your question. Well, I address it in the following manner. We really are very well supplied. We are not the principal. Its the hospitals, the states, the cities, theyre supposed to get everything they can and stock up in case something like this happens. But nobody could ever have assumed that something like this happened. So we started supplying. We brought tremendous amounts to New York today and over the last few days. We brought them to Louisiana. We brought them to Michigan. We brought them to Los Angeles. A lot of equipment.  Youve read the amount of masks that we had. I think I said over 8 million masks. The n95 masks, the more expensive, more complicated, better, whatever masks, the ones they want to use in the hospitals, we have millions of them now. Weve given them to a lot. We sent to Bellevue in New York today. That was from Mayor de Blasio? 200,000 of them, but we have 8.1 million.  Were going to have more than that and were getting them from various sources, including the military. Were rapidly then replacing them because we have to replace them in case theres another emergency. Gowns too. We have many gowns being delivered and have been delivered. Our people have done an incredible job. Most people have said, and I said this yesterday, governors have said thank you very much. Great job. If theyre a Democrat governor, in some cases, not in all cases at all.  If I said, Heres 1000 ventilators. How many do you want? We want 1000. Heres 1000. You got them. But you know what were going to do? Were going to add another 5,000. Is that good? They said, Wow, thats great. Then if Jim Acosta goes and says, Are you happy with the president? No, he should have given us 10,000. Thats whats happening. You know why? Because thats a standard political answer, and thats a shame because we have done a job like nobodys ever done a job. But weve just delivered a lot of masks. Weve just delivered a lot of gowns and protective gear. But youre talking about a massive number. But as of this morning, people were very, very happy. Steve? No, they didnt ask for a bailout, no. It was really more of a discussion than asking. We did discuss the concept of tariffs because, as you know, this was a dispute among a couple of countries that I think they want to be able to get it solved. They had a dispute. They had a competition, but they want to get it resolved. Russia and Saudi Arabia, I think they want to get it- Yeah, I think they want to get it resolved. I think theyre working very hard. I mean, they told me they want to get it resolved. Theyre working very hard. Go ahead. What are you asking? Whats that? A got you? I got you. You used the word our. Our, you know what our means? United States of America. Thats what it means. Our. Our. It means the United States of America. Then we take that our, and we distribute it to the states. Not that we have to- Because we need it for the government, and we need it for the federal government. But when the states are in- No to also keep- To keep for our country because the federal government needs it too, not just the states. But out of that, we oftentimes choose. As an example, we have almost 10,000 ventilators, and we are ready to rock with those ventilators. Were going to bring them to various areas of the country that need them. But when he says our, hes talking about our country. Hes talking- Excuse me. Hes talking about the federal government. I mean, its such a basic, simple question, and you try and make it sound so bad. You ought to be ashamed of yourself. You know what? You ought to be ashamed. Its such a simple question. He said our, and our means for the country and our means  for the states because the states are part of the country. Dont make it sound bad. Dont make it sound bad. Go ahead, Steve. Go ahead. Back here. You just asked your question. You just asked your question in a very nasty tone. Lets go. Please. I gave you a perfect answer. You know it. Go ahead. Sure, but its also needed for the federal government. We have a federal stockpile, and they have state stockpiles, and frankly they were, many of the states were totally unprepared for this. So we had to go into the federal stockpile, but were not an ordering clerk. They have to have for themselves. Now some of the states were in good shape. Some of the states were not in good shape. Thats probably something you could expect.  We have been helping states. We have been spending a tremendous amount of time, effort and billions and billions of dollars on making sure that they have what they have. I mean, take New York. We built them hospitals. I built them four hospitals, built them medical centers, sent a ship with 1,000 rooms and 12 operating rooms. Then on top of that gave vast numbers of ventilators and vast numbers of surgical gowns, equipment, masks, everything else.  Now they had a chance to order ventilators over the years. They had a chance to order very big, but they didnt choose to do it. We were there, and we helped them, and I think the governor of New York is very thankful for the help that we gave. But we have a stockpile. Its a federal stockpile. We can use that for states, or we can use it for ourselves. We do use it for the federal government. We have a very big federal government. Go ahead. Were not a traffic cop. Were a humanitarian cop. We help. Its like the ships. Do you think we wanted to take two big ships into our country that have obvious problems? You know the problems Im talking about. So I have a decision to make. Do I take them in, or do I save lives? Okay? Do I take them in, or do I save? I decided to take them in.  We have tremendous protection. We have great doctors there to help the people. They had four or five people that died. That was as of last night. They died on the ships. We took care of it. Now the people are in the process of, and many are already back in Canada. Theyre back in the UK, United Kingdom, and many of them were American citizens. Some were very sick. Were taking care of the sick people. Were testing all of the others very, very carefully, very, very carefully. They are being tested like you wouldnt believe, and we solve a humanitarian catastrophe. You know why? Because nobody else would take the ships. Nobody else would take them. So we docked them in, I think, Fort Lauderdale. We do say that. We say, and we use the act. Excuse me. We do say that, and we use the act. Weve used it a number of times very powerfully, and a lot of times we dont have to use it because we say were going to use it if you dont do this or that. Then we also have companies that act incredibly well. We have plenty of them, mostly them, but weve used the act very powerfully. A lot of times you dont have to exercise the act. All you have to do is tell them, Look, if you dont do this, were going to use the act. Weve done a good job with it. Maybe a great job. Yeah. No. Me sign? No. Theres millions of checks. Im going to sign them? No. Its a Trump administration initiative, but do I want to sign them? No. The people are getting their money. Theres a lot of stimulus going in a lot of different ways. Theres also a stimulus going for companies that, if it werent for our government, would not and some companies that were very strong a month ago.  Again, we had the strongest economy in the world. We had our best ever. We had probably the best economy in the history of the world, bigger than China, bigger than anybody, and one day we have to say, close it up, stop. Everybody, go home. You know what? Its pretty tough to do that. I dont know. All I can tell you is that small business today is that were way ahead of schedule. There is a problem, which I pointed out, I said you shouldnt do it this way, with unemployment, where 40 year old equipment by the states. Were sending the money to the states. Once the money is sent to the states, then the states, whether theyre Republican or Democrat, have to get the money out to the people. Hopefully they will be able to do it. But many of those states have 40 year old computers. I dont know that theyre equipped. I wanted to give the money direct if thats what youre talking about. I wanted to give the money out direct. It Would have been much easier. But the Democrats and some people said, no, lets do it the complicated way. All right. Excuse me. I was talking about both. Theyll get it. They will. Go ahead please. It is going to go away. I didnt say a day. I said its going away, and it is going away. Okay. Are you  Okay. That was a good answer to your question. No, no, no, no, no, no more. That was a long but a very good answer. That was enough for you. Yeah, were going to do that. We will be talking about that at a different time. Yeah, please go ahead. Thats up to Dr. Birx. You will decide. Im sure theyll talk to you about that, and Dr. Fauci, too. Please. Go ahead. No, they shouldve had more ventilators at the time. They should have had more ventilators. They were totally under-serviced. We are trying to do, were doing our best for New York. We have states. We have a lot of states. We have territorys too, but we have a lot of states that have to be taken care of, some much more so than others. Weve worked very well with the governor. We happen to think that hes well-served with ventilators. Were going to find out, but we have other states to take care of. We have a big problem in Louisiana. We have a big problem in Michigan.  We have a big problem and seven other really strong hotspots, but were doing the best we can. I wish they did the original orders three years ago. They wouldve had all the ventilators they needed, although even then they wouldnt. Because if you look at what the original request was from New York, it was far greater than anybody ever heard and weve supplied a lot. I told you we supplied some just today to New York and we supplied some yesterday to New York City. Did you have one in the back? Yeah, please. I dont think that was the question. No, he didnt misspeak. He used the word, our. Okay. Our. Our is referring to our country  The states, to the best of my knowledge and to the best of your knowledge, are a part of our country. We are taking what is in the federal stockpile and we are helping states all over the country, but we also want to keep some because when that surge comes, when you hit those peaks, were going to need, we have to be able to have the flexibility to take those ventilators and bring them to Louisiana, New York, Detroit, different places. Thats all. Of course, were not using them anywhere else. Were not going to be using them, John, anywhere else. But we want the flexibility because we dont even know when the surge is coming but its coming soon and its going to be big and some areas wont have it. Some areas will be pleasantly surprised just like weve been, you look at the chart. States that I thought would have been maybe a disaster turned out to be really, theyd done a great job. Some states are really trouble, but you dont know. You dont know. We have great flexibility.  I would have preferred giving them all out. Wed have nothing and now when we have a surge we cant get them back from where we gave them because its very tough to take it back. So we have tremendous flexibility and it could be New York, it could be Louisiana. Those are two that are really rough. New Jersey is very rough and theyve done a very good job in New Jersey. But New Jersey is very rough. Go ahead, please. The guidelines relative to which? The masks? I just dont use them. Theyre not mandatory guidelines. Theyre guidelines. They suggest you could wear them, dont have to wear them. In fact, the director is here. If you want to say a couple of words about it, you can if you want. You dont have to. But basically its a voluntary thing. Say it directly. Doing a good job. And I was just tested also, so I assume I dont have the virus so I dont have to worry about spreading it. Okay. Please go ahead. Im always considering. Look, tariffs have made a tremendous amount of money for our country. I put them on China, I put them on other places and other countries tariff us and they take advantage of us or they have for many years. Look, countries have taken advantage of the United States for years. Theyve ripped us off like nobody can even believe, whether it be on manufacturing, whether it be on exporting, whether it be on almost anything, including military where we provide virtually free military assistance to countries that frankly take advantage of us. Dont even like us.  Okay. So this has been going on for years. They terrify us, they create artificial, you could say nonfinancial barriers, which are worse than financial barriers. You cant sell your product. You cant take care of our farmers. They wont take our and yet theyll take us and sell into us and we wont charge them anything for doing it. Look, theyve taken advantage of us for years. Tariffs are a way of evening the score. Tariffs are a way of just neutralizing. They have tariffs on us and we now can put tariffs on them. Am I using it for oil? Its something we can. No.  Am I doing it now? No. Am I thinking about imposing it as of this moment? No. But if were not treated fairly, its certainly a tool in the toolbox. It would be the same thing. No. It would be the same thing. They are having a dispute, the two countries, and its hurting the rest of the world because its really hurting the energy industry. Russias being hurt unbelievably badly and Saudi Arabia is being hurt unbelievably badly because oil and gas is a primary, thats where they get most of their income. And this is a price like from the 1950s. Right? Its a price from the 1950s. They are being hurt very badly. I think theyre going to settle their dispute pretty quickly. Go ahead, please. Well, they havent production. Thats what theyve done. Theyve increased it so much that theyre, so you meant the opposite. Look, well, theyre going to stop because the market. Ultimately, the market is going to get them to stop, but they both did the opposite. They increased production to a level that water is right now more valuable than oil. Who would have ever thought? You go to some of these kingdoms, water is far more valuable than oil. Theres so much oil. Its a tribute in a way. But what happened is there was a lot to start off with and then you had the virus and it knocked the hell out of the market in terms of demand. So there is no demand and this tremendous supply.  So, I mean you saw our numbers where it was down to 20 and down frankly below 20. It was even below 20. Its an incredible thing, the market, but ultimately the marketplace will take care of it. But I think theyre going to work out their problem fairly quickly. Okay. Go ahead. Id talk. If it were important to talk to her, Id talk to her. If it were important for the American people, Id talk to her. But other than that, I can have other people talking to her. Look, you ready? Infrastructure is a great thing for me. I think infrastructure for this country, we have an old broken infrastructure. 50 years ago, we were the envy of the world and then we spent all this money so stupidly in the Middle East. We spent, its going to be very close to $8 trillion in the Middle East. How stupid was that decision? But they spent it on that and other things.  Weve got to fix our infrastructure. That means roads, highways, tunnels, airports, everything. We got to fix our infrastructure. And the beauty is because of the fact that we are so strong as a country, were borrowing at zero. We never had a chance to borrow at zero. Even this country, we never had a chance to borrow at zero. Were going to borrow. This is a great time so we can fix our infrastructure and well have almost no interest because this is the time to do it. Steve, one more question. Which one? I have many trajectories for many things. Say it, Steve. What? On what? Id have to ask Dr. Fauci, and Id have to ask Deborah. Have the models changed? The models show hundreds of thousands of people are going to die. You know what I want to do? I want to come away under the models. If professionals did the models, I was never involved in a model, butat least this is kind of a modelbut you know what, hundreds of thousands of people they say are going to die, I want much less than that. I want none. But its too late for that, but I want very few people relative to what the models are saying. Those are projections. I hope theyre wrong. I hope were going to be under those projections. How come you always have two? Why cant you have one? Every time, I have three questions. I have two questions. Can you give me one instead because there are a couple of other people? Go ahead. The general election will happen on November 3rd. In Wisconsin, what happened is I, through social media, put out a very strong endorsement of a Republican conservative judge whos an excellent, brilliant judge. Hes a justice. And I hear what happened is his poll numbers went through the roof and because of that, I think they delayed the election. I dont know. Why didnt he do it before? Hes doing the right before the election. Excuse me. Why didnt he do this two weeks ago? All of a sudden, excuse me. All of a sudden, an election which is taking place very soon, gets delayed now. I just endorsed him today and it was a very strong endorsement. His polls, hes gone very high up and all of a sudden the governor comes out, the Democrat governor, by the way, comes out and says, oh, were going to move this election. So I dont know. I hope youre right. I hope youre right. No. I think a lot of people cheat with mail in voting. I think people should vote with ID, voter ID. I think voter ID is very important and the reason they dont want voter ID is because they intend to cheat. When you get something, when you buy something, you look at your cards and credit cards and different cards. You have your picture and many of them, not all of them, but on many of them, you should have a picture on your for voting. It should be called voter ID. They should have that and it shouldnt be mail in, excuse me. It shouldnt be mail in voting.  It should be you go to a booth and you proudly display yourself. You dont send it in the mail where people pick up. All sorts of bad things can happen by the time they sign that, if they sign that, if they sign that, by the time it gets in and its tabulated. No, it shouldnt be mailed in. You should vote at the booth and you should have voter ID. Because when you have voter ID, thats the real deal. Thank you very much. Well see you tomorrow."
"     madam Speaker the president's cabinet  madam Speaker the President of the United States    members of Congress the President of the United States  thank you very much thank you thank you very much madam speaker mr. vice president members of Congress the first lady of the United States and my fellow-citizens three years ago we launched the great American comeback tonight I stand before you to share the incredible results jobs our booming incomes are soaring poverty is plummeting crime is falling confidence is surging and our country is thriving and highly respected again America's enemies are on the run America's fortunes are on the rise in America's future is blazing bright the years of economic decay are over the days of our country being used taken advantage of and even scorned by other nations are long behind us Ganju are the broken promises jobless recoveries tired platitudes and constant excuses for the depletion of American wealth power and prestige in just three short years we have shattered the mentality of American decline and we have rejected the downsizing of Americans destiny we have totally rejected the downsizing we're moving forward at a pace that was unimaginable just a short time ago and we are never ever going back I am thrilled to report to you tonight that our economy is the best it has ever been our military is completely rebuilt with its power being unmatched anywhere in the world and it's not even close our borders are secure our families are flourishing our values are renewed our pride is restored and for all of these reasons I say to the people of our great country and to the members of Congress the state of our union is stronger than ever before the vision I will lay out this evening demonstrates how we are building the world's most prosperous and inclusive society one where every citizen can join in America's unparalleled success and where every community can take part in America's extraordinary rise from the instant I took office I moved rapidly to revive the US economy slashing a record number of job-killing regulations enacting historic and record-setting tax cuts and fighting for fair and reciprocal trade agreements our agenda is relentlessly pro-worker pro-family pro-growth and most of all pro-american thank you we are advancing with unbridled optimism and lifting our citizens of every race color religion and Creed very very high since my election we have created 7 million new jobs 5 million more than government experts projected during the previous administration the unemployment rate is the lowest in over half a century and very incredibly the average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any Administration in the history of our country if we hadn't reversed the failed economic policies of the previous administration the world would not now be witnessing this great economic success the unemployment rate for african-americans Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans has reached the lowest levels in history african-american youth unemployment has reached an all-time low african-american poverty has declined to the lowest rate ever recorded the unemployment rate for women reached the lowest level in almost 70 years and last year women filled 72 percent of all new jobs added the veterans unemployment rate dropped to a record low the unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached an all-time low workers without a high school diploma have achieved the lowest unemployment rate recorded in US history a record number of young Americans are now employed under the last administration more than 10 million people were added to the Food Stamp rolls under my administration seven million Americans have come off food stamps and 10 million people have been lifted off of welfare in eight years under the last administration over 300,000 working age people dropped out of the workforce in just three years of my administration 3.5 million people working age people have joined the workforce since my election the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47 percent three times faster than the increase for the top one percent after decades of flat and falling incomes wages are rising fast and wonderfully they are rising fastest for low-income workers who have seen a 16 percent pay increase since my election this is a blue-collar boom real median household income is now at the highest level ever recorded since my election US stock markets have soared 70% adding more than 12 trillion dollars to our nation's wealth transcending anything anyone believed was possible this is a record it is something that every country in the world is looking up to they admire consumer confidence has just reached amazing new highs all of those millions of people with 401ks and pensions are doing far better than they have ever done before with increases of 60 70 80 90 and 100% and even more jobs and investments are pouring in to nine thousand previously neglected neighborhoods thanks to Opportunity Zones a plan spearheaded by senator Tim Scott as part of our great Republican tax cuts in other words wealthy people and companies are pouring money into poor neighborhoods or areas that haven't seen investment in many decades creating jobs energy and excitement this is the first time that these deserving communities have seen anything like this it's all working Opportunity Zones are helping Americans like Army veteran tony Rankin's from Cincinnati Ohio after struggling with drug addiction Tony lost his job his house and his family he was homeless but then Tony found a construction company that invests in Opportunity Zones he is now a top tradesman drug free reunited with his family and he is here tonight Tony keep up the great work Tony thank you Tony our roaring economy has for the first time ever given many former prisoners the ability to get a great job and a fresh start the second chance at life is made possible because we passed landmark criminal justice reform into law everybody said that criminal justice reform couldn't be done but I got it done and the people in this room got it done  thanks to our bold regulatory reduction campaign the United States has become the number-one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world by far with the tremendous progress we have made over the past three years America is now energy independent and energy jobs like so many other elements of our country are at a record high we are doing numbers that no one would have thought possible just three years ago likewise we are restoring our nation's manufacturing might even though predictions were as you all know that this could never ever be done after losing 60,000 factories under the previous two administrations America has now gained 12,000 new factories under my administration with thousands upon thousands of plants and factories being planned or being built companies are not leaving they are coming back to the USA the fact is that everybody wants to be where the action is in the United States of America is indeed the place where the action is one of the biggest promises I made to the American people was to replace the disastrous NAFTA trade deal in fact unfair trade is perhaps the single biggest reason that I decided to run for president following NAFTA's adoption our nation lost one in four manufacturing jobs many politicians came and went pledging to change or replace NAFTA only to do so and then absolutely nothing happened but unlike so many who came before me I keep my promises we did our job six days ago i replaced nafta and signed the brand new US mexico canada agreement into law the u.s. MCA will create nearly 100,000 new high-paying american auto jobs and massively boost exports for our farmers ranchers and factory workers it will also bring trade with mexico and canada to a much higher level but also to be a much greater degree of fairness and reciprocity we will have that fairness and reciprocity and I say that finally because it's been many many years that we were treated fairly on trade this is the first major trade deal in many years to earn the strong backing of America's labor unions I also promised our citizens that I would impose tariffs to confront China's massive theft of America's jobs our strategy has worked days ago we signed the groundbreaking new agreement with China that will defend our workers protect our intellectual property bring billions and billions of dollars into our treasury and open vast new markets for products made and grown right here in the USA for decades China has taken advantage of the United States now we have changed that but at the same time we have perhaps the best relationship we've ever had with China including with President Xi they respect what we've done because quite frankly they could never really believe that they were able to get away with what they were doing year after year decade after decade without someone in our country stepping up and saying that's enough now we want to rebuild our country and that's exactly what we're doing we are rebuilding our country as we restore American leadership throughout the world we are once again standing up for freedom in our hemisphere that's why my administration reversed the failing policies of the previous administration on Cuba we are supporting the hopes of Cubans Nicaraguans and Venezuelans to restore democracy the United States is leading a 59 Nation diplomatic coalition against the socialist dictator of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro Maduro is an illegitimate ruler a tyrant who brutalizes his people but medoras grip and tyranny will be smashed and broken here this evening it's a very brave man who carries with him the hopes dreams and aspirations of all Venezuelans joining us in the gallery is the true and legitimate president of Venezuela juan guido mr. president please take this message back to you Thank You mr. president great honor thank you very much please take this message back heck that all Americans are united with the Venezuelan people in their righteous struggle for freedom thank you very much mister thank you very much socialism destroys nations but always remember freedom unifies the soul to safeguard American liberty we have invested a record-breaking 2.2 trillion dollars in the United States military  we have purchased the finest planes missiles rocket ships in every other form of military equipment and it's all made right here in the USA we are also getting our allies finally to help pay their fair share I have raised contributions from other NATO members by more than 400 billion dollars and the number of allies meeting their minimum obligations has more than doubled and just weeks ago for the first time since President Truman established the air force more than 70 years earlier we created a brand new branch of the United States Armed Forces it's called the space force very important in the gallery tonight we have a young gentleman and what he wants so badly 13 years old in lawn Faye he's an eighth grader from Arizona Ian please stand up ian has always dreamed of going to space he was the first of his class and among the youngest at an Aviation Academy he aspires to go to the Air Force Academy and then he has his eye on the space force as Ian says most people look up at space I want to look down on the world but sitting behind Ian tonight is his greatest hero of them all Charles Magee was born in Cleveland Ohio one century ago Charles is one of the last surviving Tuskegee Airmen the first black fighter pilots and he also happens to be Ian's great-grandfather  credible story after more than 130 combat missions in World War two he came back home to a country still struggling for civil rights and went on to serve America in Korea and Vietnam on December 7th Charles celebrated his 100th birthday a few weeks ago a signed a bill promoting Charles McGee to Brigadier General and earlier today I pinned the stars on his shoulders in the Oval Office general McGee our nation salutes you thank you sir from the pilgrims to the founders from the soldiers at Valley Forge to the marchers at Selma and from President Lincoln to the Reverend Martin Luther King Americans have always rejected limits on our children's future members of Congress we must never forget that the only victories that matter in Washington are victories that deliver for the American people the people are the heart of our country their dreams are the soul of our country and their love is what powers and sustains their country we must always remember that our job is to put America first the next step forward in building an inclusive society is making sure that every young American gets a great education and the opportunity to achieve the American dream yet for too long countless American children have been trapped in failing government schools to rescue these students 18 states have created school choice in the form of opportunity scholarships the programs are so popular that tens of thousands of students remain on a waiting list one of those students is Jenaya davis a fourth grader from philadelphia Jenaya geneious mom Stephanie is a single parent she would do anything to give her daughter a better future but last year that future was put further out of reach when Pennsylvania's governor vetoed legislation to expand school choice to 50,000 children Jenna and Stephanie are in the gallery Stephanie thank you so much for being here with your beautiful daughter thank you very much but Jenai I have some good news for you because I am pleased to inform you that your long wait is over I can proudly announce tonight that an opportunity scholarship has become available it's going to you and you will soon be heading to the school of your choice now I call on Congress to give 1 million American children the same opportunity janilla has just received passed the education freedom scholarships and opportunities act because no parent should be forced to send their child to a failing government school every young person should have a safe and secure environment in which to learn and to grow for this reason our magnificent first lady has launched the b-best initiative to advance a safe healthy supportive and drug-free life for the next generation online in school and in our communities Thank You Melania for your extraordinary love and profound care for America's children thank you very much my administration is determined to give our citizens the opportunities they need regardless of age or background through our pledge to American workers over 400 companies will also provide new jobs and education opportunities to almost 15 million Americans my budget also contains an exciting vision for our nation's high schools tonight I ask Congress to support our students and backed my plan to offer vocational and technical education in every single high school in America to expand equal opportunity I am also proud that we achieved record and permanent funding for our nation's historically black colleges and universities a good life for American families also requires the most affordable innovative and high quality health care system on earth before I took office health insurance premiums had more than doubled in just five years I move quickly to provide affordable alternatives our new plans are up to 60% less expensive and better I've also made an ironclad pledge to American families we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions and we will always protect your Medicare and we will always protect your Social Security always the American patient should never be blindsided by medical bills that is why I signed an executive order requiring price transparency many experts believe that transparency which will go into full effect at the beginning of next year will be even bigger than health care reform it will save families massive amounts of money for substantially better care but as we work to improve Americans health care there are those who want to take away your health care take away your doctor and abolish private insurance entirely 132 lawmakers in this room have endorsed legislation to impose a socialist takeover of our health care system wiping out the private health insurance plans of 180 million very happy Americans to those watching at home tonight I want you to know we will never let socialism destroy American health care over 130 legislators in this chamber have endorsed legislation that would bankrupt our nation by providing free taxpayer-funded health care to millions of illegal aliens forcing taxpayers to subsidize free care for anyone in the world who unlawfully crosses our borders these proposals would raid the Medicare benefits of our seniors and that our seniors depend on while acting as a powerful lure for illegal immigration that is what is happening in California and other states their systems are totally out of control costing taxpayers vast and unaffordable amounts of money if forcing American taxpayers to provide unlimited free health care to illegal aliens sounds fair to you then stand with the radical left but if you believe that we should defend American patients and American seniors then stand with me and pass legislation to prohibit free government health care for illegal aliens this will be a tremendous boon to our already very strongly guarded southern border where as we speak a long tall and very powerful wall is being built we have now completed over 100 miles and have over 500 miles fully completed in a very short period of time early next year we will have substantially more than 500 miles completed my administration has also taken on the big pharmaceutical companies we have approved a record number of affordable generic drugs and medicines are being approved by the FDA at a faster clip than ever before and I was pleased to announce last year that for the first time in 51 years the costs of prescription drugs actually went down and working together Congress can reduce drug prices substantially from current levels I've been speaking to Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa and others in Congress in order to get something on drug pricing done and done quickly and properly I'm calling for bipartisan legislation that achieves the goal of dramatically lowering prescription drug prices get a bill on my desk and I will sign it into law immediately with unyielding commitment we are curbing the opioid epidemic drug overdose deaths declined for the first time in nearly 30 years among the state's hardest hit Ohio is down 22% Pennsylvania is down 18% Wisconsin is down 10% and we will not quit until we have beaten the opioid epidemic once and for all protecting Americans health also means fighting infectious diseases we are coordinating with the Chinese government and working closely together on the corona virus outbreak in China my administration will take all necessary steps to safeguard our citizens from this threat we have launched ambitious new initiatives to substantially improve care for Americans with kidney disease Alzheimer's and those struggling with mental health and because Congress were so good as to fund my request new cures for childhood cancer and we will eradicate the AIDS epidemic in America by the end of this decade almost every American family knows the pain when a loved one is diagnosed with a serious illness here tonight is a special man beloved by millions of Americans who just received a stage four advanced cancer diagnosis this is not good news but what is good news is that he is the greatest fighter and winner that you will ever meet rush limbaugh thank you for your decades of tireless devotion to our country and rush in recognition of all that you have done for our nation the millions of people a day that you speak to and that you inspire and all of the incredible work that you have done for charity I am proud to announce tonight that you will be receiving our country's highest civilian honor the Presidential Medal of Freedom I will now ask the First Lady of the United States to present you with the honor please  ruch and catherine congratulations Thank You Catherine as we pray for all who are sick we know that America is constantly achieving new medical breakthroughs in 2017 doctors at Saint Luke's Hospital in Kansas City delivered one of the earliest premature babies ever to survive born at just 21 weeks in six days and weighing less than a pound ellie schneider was a born fighter through the skill of her doctors and the prayers of her parents little ellie kept on winning the battle of life today Ellie is a strong healthy two-year-old girl sitting with her amazing mother Robin in the gallery Ellie and Robin we are glad to have you with us tonight le reminds us that every child is a miracle of life and thanks to modern medical wonders 50% of very premature babies delivered at the hospital where le was born now survived it's an incredible thing thank you very much our goal should be to ensure that every baby has the best chance to thrive and grow just like le that is why I'm asking Congress to provide an additional 50 million dollars to fund neonatal research for America's youngest patients that is why I'm also calling upon members of Congress here tonight to pass legislation finally banning the late term abortion of babies whether we are Republican Democrat or independent surely we must all agree that every human life is a sacred gift from God as we support America's moms and dads I was recently proud to sign the law providing new parents in the federal workforce paid family leave serving as a model for the rest of the country now I call on Congress to pass the bipartisan advancing support for working families Act extending family leave to mothers and fathers all across our nation 40 million American families have an average 2200 dollars extra thanks to our child tax credit I've also overseen historic funding increases for high quality childcare enabling 17 states to help more children many of which have reduced or eliminated their wait lists altogether and I sent Congress a plan with a vision to further expand access to high quality childcare and urge you to act immediately to protect the environment days ago I announced that the United States will join the 1 trillion trees initiative an ambitious effort to bring together government and private sector to plant new trees in America and all around the world we must also rebuild America's infrastructure I asked you to pass senator john burroughs highway bill to invest in new roads bridges and tunnels all across our land I'm also committed to ensuring that every citizen can have access to high-speed Internet including and especially in rural America they better tomorrow for all Americans also requires us to keep America safe that means supporting the men and women of law enforcement at every level including our nation's heroic ice officers last year our brave vice officers arrested more than 120,000 criminal aliens charged with nearly 10,000 burglaries 5,000 sexual assaults 45,000 violent assaults and 2,000 murders tragically there are many cities in America where radical politicians have chosen to provide sanctuary for these criminal illegal aliens in sanctuary cities local officials order police to release dangerous criminal aliens to prey upon the public instead of handing them over to ice to be safely removed just 29 days ago a criminal alien freed by the sanctuary city of New York was charged with the brutal rape and murder of a 92 year old woman the killer had been previously arrested for assault but under New York sanctuary policies he was set free if the city had honored ices detainer request his victim would still be alive today the state of California passed an outrageous law declaring their whole state to be a sting January for criminal illegal immigrants a very terrible sanctuary with catastrophic results here is just one tragic example in December 2018 California police detained an illegal alien with five prior arrests including convictions for robbery and assault but as required by California sanctuary law local authorities released him days later the criminal alien went on a gruesome spree of deadly violence he viciously shot one man going about his daily work he approached a woman sitting in her car and shot her in the arm and in the chest he walked into a convenience store and wildly fired his weapon he hijacked a truck and smashed into vehicles critically injuring innocent victims one of the victims is a terrible terrible situation died fifty one-year-old American named rocky Jones rocky was at a gas station when this vile criminal fired eight bullets at him from close range murdering him in cold blood rocky left behind a devoted family including his brothers who loved him more than anything else in the world one of his grieving brothers is here with us tonight Jodie would you please stand Jodie thank you Jodee our hearts weep for your loss and we will not rest until you have justice senator Tom Tillis has introduced legislation to allow Americans like Jodi to sue sanctuary cities and states when a loved one is hurt or killed as a result of these deadly practices I asked Congress to pass the justice for victims of sanctuary cities act immediately the United States of America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans not criminal aliens in the last three years Isis arrested over 5,000 wicked human traffickers and I have side nine pieces of legislation to stamp out the Menace of human trafficking domestically and all around the globe my administration has undertaken an unprecedented effort to secure the southern border of the United States before I came into office if you showed up illegally on our southern border and were arrested you were simply released and allowed into our country never to be seen again my administration has ended catch and release if you come illegally you will now be promptly removed from our country very importantly we entered into historic cooperation agreements with the governments of Mexico Honduras El Salvador and Guatemala as a result of our unprecedented efforts illegal crossings are down 75% since May dropping eight straight months in a row and as the wall rapidly goes up drug seizures rise and the border crossings are going down and going down very rapidly last year I traveled to the border in Texas and met chief patrol agent Raul Ortiz for months agent Ortiz and his team have seized more than 200,000 pounds of poisonous narcotics arrested more than 3,000 human smugglers and rescued more than 2,000 migrants days ago agent Ortiz was promoted to deputy chief of Border Patrol and he joins us tonight chief Ortiz please stand a grateful nation thanks you and all of the heroes of border patrol and ice thank you very much to build on these historic gains we are working on legislation to replace our outdated and randomized immigration system with one based on merit welcoming those who follow the rules contribute to our economy support themselves financially and uphold our values with every action my administration is restoring the rule of law and reasserting the culture of American freedom working with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Thank You Mitch and his colleagues in the Senate we have confirmed a record number of 187 new federal judges to uphold our Constitution as written this includes two brilliant new Supreme Court justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh thank you and we have many in the pipeline my administration is also defending religious liberty and that includes the constitutional right to pray in public schools in America we don't punish prayer we don't tear down crosses we don't ban symbols to faiths we don't muzzle preachers and pastors in America we celebrate faith we cherish religion we lift our voices in prayer and we raise our sights to the glory of God just as we believed in the First Amendment we also believe in another constitutional right that is under siege all across our country so long as I am president I will always protect your Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms in reaffirming our heritage as a free nation we must remember that America has always been a frontier nation now we must embrace the next frontier America's manifest destiny and the Stars I am asking Congress to fully fund the Artemis program to ensure that the next man and the first woman on the moon will be American astronauts using this as a launching pad to ensure that America is the first nation to plant its flag on Mars my administration is also strongly defending our national security and combating radical Islamic terrorism last week I announced a groundbreaking plan for peace between Israel and the Palestinians recognizing that all past attempts have failed we must be determined and creative in order to stabilize the region and give millions of young people the chance to realize a better future three years ago the barbarians of Isis held over 20,000 square miles of territory in Iraq and Syria today the ISIS territorial Caliphate has been 100% destroyed and the founder and leader of Isis the bloodthirsty killer known as al Baghdadi is dead we are joined this evening by Carl and Marcia Muller after graduating from college their beautiful daughter Cala became a humanitarian aid worker she once wrote some people find God in church some people find God in nature some people find God in love I find God and suffering I've known for some time what my life's work is using my hands as tools to relieve suffering in 2013 while caring for suffering civilians in Syria Kayla was kidnapped tortured and enslaved by Isis and kept as a prisoner of al Baghdadi himself after more than 500 horrifying days of captivity al Baghdady murdered young beautiful Kayla she was just 26 years old on the night that US Special Forces operations ended al Baghdadi's miserable life the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff general mark Milley received a call in the Situation Room he was told that the brave men of the elite Special Forces team that so perfectly carried out the operation had given their mission a name Task Force 8:14 it was a reference to a special day August 14th Kayla's birthday Karl and Marcia America's warriors never forgot Kayla and neither will we every day America's men and women in uniform demonstrate the infinite depth of love that dwells in the human heart one of these American heroes twas Army Staff Sergeant Christopher hake on his second deployment to Iraq in 2008 sergeant hake wrote a letter to his one-year-old son gage I will be with you again he wrote to gage I will teach you to ride your first bike build your first sand box watch you play sports and see you have kids also I love you son take care of your mother I am always with you daddy on Easter Sunday of 2008 Chris was out on patrol in Baghdad when his Bradley Fighting Vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb that night he made the ultimate sacrifice for our country sergeant Hague now rests an eternal glory in Arlington and his wife Kelly is in the gallery tonight joined by their son who is now a 13 year old and doing very very well - Kelly engage Chris will live in our hearts forever he's looking down on you now thank you thank you very much thank you both very much the terror is responsible for killing sergeant hake was Kassim Soleimani who provided the deadly roadside bomb that took Chrissy's life Sal Imani was the Iranian regime's most ruthless butcher a monster who murder or wounded thousands of American servicemembers in Iraq as the world's top terrorists allamani orchestrated the deaths of countless men women and children he directed the December dassault and went on to assault US forces in Iraq was actively planning new attacks when we hit him very hard and that's why last month at my direction the US military executed a flawless precision strike that killed Salamone and terminated his evil reign of terror forever our message to the terrorists is clear you will never escape American justice if you attack our citizens you forfeit your life in recent months we have seen proud Iranian 'he's raised their voices against their oppressive rulers the Iranian regime must abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons stop spreading terror death and destruction and start working for the good of its own people because of our powerful sanctions the Iranian economy is doing very very poorly we can help them make a very good and short time recovery it can all go very quickly but perhaps they are too proud or too foolish to ask for that help we are here let's see which road they choose it is totally up to them as we defend American lives we are working to end America's wars in the Middle East in Afghanistan the determination and valor of our war fighters has allowed us to make tremendous progress in peace talks are now underway I am NOT looking to kill hundreds of thousands of people in Afghanistan many of them totally innocent it is also not our function to serve other nations as law-enforcement agencies these are war fighters that we have the best in the world and they either want to fight to win or not fight at all we are working to finally end America's longest war and bring our troops back home war places a heavy burden on our nation's extraordinary military families especially spouses like amy Williams from Fort Bragg North Carolina and her two children six-year-old Ileana and three-year-old Roe and Amy works full-time and volunteers countless hours helping other military families for the past seven months she has done it all while her husband sergeant first last Townsend Williams is in Afghanistan on his fourth deployment in the Middle East Amy's kids haven't seen their father's face in many months Amy your family sacrifice makes it possible for all of our families to live in safety and a peace and we want to thank you thank you Amy but Amy there is one more thing tonight we have a very special surprise I am thrilled to inform you that your husband is back from deployment he is here with us tonight and we couldn't keep him waiting any longer  welcome home sergeant Williams thank you very much as the world bears witness tonight America is a land of heroes there's a place where greatness is born where destinies are forged and where legends come to life this is the home of Thomas Edison and Teddy Roosevelt of many great generals including Washington Pershing Patton and MacArthur this is the home of Abraham Lincoln Frederick Douglas Amelia Earhart Harriet Tubman the Wright brothers Neil Armstrong and so many more this is the country where children learn names like Wyatt Earp Davy Crockett and Annie Oakley this is the place where the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth and where Texas Patriots made their last stand at the Alamo the beautiful beautiful Alamo the American nation was carved out of the vast frontier by the toughest strongest fiercest and most determined men and women ever to walk on the face of the earth our ancestors braved the unknown tamed the wilderness settled the Wild West lifted millions from poverty disease and hunger vanquished tyranny and fascism assured the world to new heights of science and medicine laid down the railroads dug out the canals raised up the skyscrapers and ladies and gentlemen our ancestors built the most exceptional Republic ever to exist in all of human history and we are making it greater than ever before this is their glorious and magnificent inheritance we are Americans we are pioneers we are the Pathfinders we settled the New World we built the modern world and we change history forever by embracing the eternal truth that everyone is made equal by the hand of Almighty God America is the place where anything can happen America is the place where anyone can rise and here on this land on this soil on this continent the most incredible dreams come true this nation is our canvas and this country is our masterpiece we look at tomorrow and see unlimited frontiers just waiting to be explored our brightest discoveries are not yet known our most thrilling stories are not yet told our grandest journeys are not yet made the American age the American epic the American adventure has only just begun our spirit is still young the Sun is still rising God's grace is still shining and my fellow Americans the best is yet to come thank you god bless you and God bless america thank you very much                 "
" thank you thank you  all I can say is that the fake news just doesn't get it do they they just don't get it hello Charleston and I'm thrilled to be back in the great state of South Carolina with thousands of hardworking American patrons who believed in faith family God and country thank you it's a phenomenal crowd only topped by the number of people outside that didn't get if anybody would like to give up where you're standing or your seat please raise your hand now let's begin right thank you all very much oh this is great no they don't get it you know down the road they have a rally for to the people that are going to be running tomorrow they're trying to get to a hundred but they're not gonna make it so I think they're gonna set up a round table you know that's what they do they said so people want to go to a rally they end up sitting at a round table talking about the definition of impeachment crazy crazy it's a crazy deal no the to fake news media they've been trying to figure this out for years they still don't get it though they don't get it look at all of those cameras look at all of those guys that's a lot of cameras that's a lot of cameras Lindsay and Tim that's a lot of kid they heard you guys were here they heard Tim was here and that Lindsay was here and then and they said we're not going to attend that rally but you know when we heard those two guys plus our great congressman okay here great congressman but this is an incredible time for our nation we're thrilled to be in the midst of what we call the great American comeback in this one jobs a booming income Sasori factories are returning poverty is plummeting confidence is surging and we have completely rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military our country is stronger than ever before we are stronger we are better but while we're building a great future the radical left Democrats in Washington are trying to burn it all down they have spent the last three years and I could even go further than that three years since the election but we go before the election working to erase your ballots and overthrow our democracy but with your help we have exposed the far left corruption and defeated their sinister schemes and let's see what happens in the coming months let's watch very dishonest people now the Democrats are politicizing the coronavirus you know that  they are politicizing it we did one of the great jobs you say how's president Trump doing they go oh not good they have no clue they don't have any clue they can't even count their votes in Iowa they can't even they can't count their votes one of my people came up to me and said mr. president they tried to beat you on Russia Russia Russia that didn't work out too well they couldn't do it they tried the impeachment hoax that was on a perfect conversation they tried anything they tried it over and over they've been doing it since she got in it's all turning they lost it's all turning think of it think of it and this is their new hoax but you know we did something that's been pretty amazing we're 15 people in this massive country and because of the fact that we went early we went early we could have had a lot more than that we're doing great our country is doing so great we are so unified the Republican Party has never ever been unified like it is now there has never been a movement in the history of our country like we have now never been a movie so a statistic that we want to talk about go ahead say USA it's okay us  so a number that nobody heard of that I heard of recently and I was shocked to hear 35,000 people or an average die each year from the flu did anyone know that 35,000 that's a lot of people it could go to a hundred thousand it could be 27,000 they say usually a minimum of 27 goes up to a hundred thousand people a year die and so far we have lost nobody to coronavirus in the United States no bother and it doesn't mean we won't and we are totally prepared it doesn't mean we won't but think of it you hear thirty five and forty thousand people and we've lost nobody and you wonder the press is in hysteria mode CNN fake news and the camera just went off  the camera just went off turn it back on hey by the way hold it look look at this and honestly all events are like this it's about us it's all about us I wish they'd take the camera show the arena please show them if they never they never do  they never show the arena you can hear it because when you hear it that's not 200 people that set a hundred people that's thousands and thousands of people including people they always show my face see that face they show my face I wanted to show the arena not my face right how many have you been to how many rallies have you good practically everyone can you believe it I'm sure your husband's are thrilled right they're thrilled where are you going tonight I'm going to another Trump rally number 114 what do your husband say about that this group of big she said we don't care thank you thank you Democrats will only say horrible things even though they know we're doing a great job we do it a great job with what we have to work with it you've gotta for the Democrats want us to fail so badly even if their actions and you take a look hurt the people of this country they'll hurt the people themselves their wealth their everything they're willing to hurt our country in order to say bad even if they know it's not so we made an unbelievable deal with Mexico with Canada with China with South Korea with Japan and if you put a microphone that these people back there like the Academy Awards used to be done anymore best best movie of the year it's made in South Korea what's that all about festival I'm waiting to see the best movie of the year and it's made he sent his garbage only in South Carolina can you say Oh you're gonna get us in trouble now I'm just repeating what he said for the fake snooze I'm just now but seriously you know the Academy Awards has gone way way down in ratings you know why because they started attacking us and we don't believe in it anymore that's now but they had the best movie of the year made in South Korea they make enough stuff for us right and they're good they're our friends take advantage of us that's okay not so much anymore we are mek differently we are really you take a look magnificently organized with the best professionals in the world we're prepared for the absolute worst you have to be prepared for the worst but hopefully it will all amount to very little that's why I tell you when we have the flu at 35,000 people and this one is we have to take it very very seriously that's what we're doing we are preparing for the worst my administration has taken the most aggressive action in modern history to prevent the spread of this illness in the United States we are ready we are ready  On January 31st I ordered the suspension of foreign nationals who have recently been in China from entering the United States an action which the Democrats loudly criticized and protested and now everybody's complimenting me saying thank you very much you were a hundred percent correct could have been a whole different story but I say so let's get this right a virus starts in China bleeds its way into various countries all around the world doesn't spread widely at all in the United States because of the early actions that myself and my administration took against a lot of other wishes and the Democrats single point talking point and you see it is that it's Donald Trump's fault right miss Donald now just things that happen but you know what this does show you things happen whoever thought of this two weeks ago who would have thought this could be going on for weeks ago you wouldn't but things happen in life and you have to be prepared and you have to be flexible and you have to be able to go out and get it and my guys that we have the best professionals in the world the best in the world and we are so ready at the same time that I initiated the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years we had a quarantine some people they weren't happy they weren't happy about it I want to tell you there are a lot of people that not so happy but after two weeks they got happy you know who got happy the people around them got happy that's who got I also created a white house virus task force it's a big thing the virus task force I requested 2.5 billion dollars to ensure we have the resources we need the Democrats said that's terrible he's doing the wrong thing he needs eight and a half billion not two and a half I've never had that before he has for two and a half they want to give me eight to have so I said I'll take it does that make me a bit I'll take it I'll take them I never had that beautiful I never had it we won two and a half million that's plenty we demand you take eight and a half he doesn't know what he's doing we want a to half these people are crazy we must understand that border security is also health security  and you've all seen the wall is going up like magic it's going up like magic you think that was an easy one that was not an easy one it's going up great and it's we're up now 132 miles and this is the exact wall that border security wanted everything this is everything they wanted 132 miles already we'll have 500 miles built by very early next year sometimes one of the reasons the numbers are so good we will do everything in our power to keep the infection and those carrying the infection from entering our country we have no choice whether it's the virus that we're talking about or many other public health threats the Democrat policy of open borders is a direct threat to the health and well-being of all Americans now you see it with the coronavirus you see it you see it with the corona boy you know you see that when you have this virus or any other virus or any other problem coming in it's not the only thing that comes in through the border and we're setting records now at the border we're setting records and now just using this so important right so important I'm doing well in the polls despite the worst fake news and worst presidential harassment in the history of the United we've got phenomenal numbers now it's the worst presidential harassment in history we had a great event yesterday a an event that was so beautiful young african-american leaders one of the things I asked him and I've been thinking about this for a long time and great people great people some of them are here tonight do you like the name african-american or black and they said black all at the same time no true I tell you because you say african-american are black and they said almost like immediately black but we had an incredible group of people and what happened is NBC it was such a love fest it was selling crab went on for 45 minutes it was a love fest it was incredible NBC turned out there they are right there they turned down Comcast which owns NBC actually NBC I think which is we call it MS DNC right MS DNC but NBC I think is worse than CNN I actually do and Comcast a company that spends millions and millions of dollars on their image I'll do everything possible to destroy their image because they are they are terrible they're a terrible group of people and they paid me a fortune four years for the apprentice they paid me a fortune and when I left the show is doing great when I left the show 14 seasons think of that he got a big movie star won't tell you his name nobody would know actually nobody will know his name because he was on for such a short period of time but the show went down the tubes very quickly after the head chopped but the country in five years from now of course you'll want to upset him five years or nine years or 13 years or 18 years  10 more years now now or they go crazy when you say it when you say when you say to them five more years so it's fine but you then say maybe nine maybe 13 maybe 17 maybe 21 who knows maybe let's do this let's term limit ourselves at 25 years no more than 25 no more okay they'll pass something in the Senate Tim pass it in the Senate with Lindsey a 25 year term limit please now we're looking to do a great job we need that extra five to get everything solidified you know it's like you take a tree and you plant it it needs some time to grab on right and that's all we need we've got incredible things that we've done we have things we still can do but we have done actually much much more than we even promised we do if you think while the extreme left has been wasting America's time with these vile hoaxes we've been killing terrorists creating jobs raising wages and acting frayed Trevor Fairtrade is securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race religion color and Creed we added another 225,000 jobs last month alone and that makes seven million jobs since our election seven million the unemployment rate in the great state of South Carolina you ever hear that plan now sleepy Joe would say the unemployment rate in the great state of Ohio no no you're in South Carolina Joe Joe you're in south to come up and you ever see the guy the note no no it's South Carolina it's not Ohio okay then he goes alright Iowa did you say I wouldn't no no I did that like seven times if I did that once it would be the end of the road right be the end of it they'd say Trump is lost it they like to say that anyway I guess huh these people are bad people sleepy Joe well he's running tomorrow no but could you imagine if I said just a small fraction of the mistakes he makes which are unbeliever speech I actually said the other night I was watching him when he said about half the population wiped out with guns I said I said that's a horrible thing that's the end of his evening that's the end of his political career and that after the debate they're revealing him they said Joe Biden had a great night last night I don't get it Kim the unemployment rate here in South Carolina has fallen to 2.3 percent the lowest rate in your States the lowest rate in all of America the lowest rate in all of America I said to a friend of mine a Democrat how's the race going tomorrow who's gonna win and he says mr. president now it's very interesting you know he said something he's this guy's a real political Pro - in all fairness even though he's a Democrat but I said who's gonna win he said honestly sir it doesn't matter you are so far ahead in South Carolina that it's meaningless and in North Carolina - in North Carolina we've destroyed the ISIS territorial Caliphate we killed the founder and leader of Isis al Baghdadi is dead he's dead he's dead and we recently took out the world's top terrorists Kazaam so limini ending his evil reign of terror forever  but as we keep on winning Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds they've gone crazy I mean nervous Nancy crying Chuck Schumer crying Chuck a bunch of losers the good citizens of South Carolina have had a front row seat to the extremism of the Democrat candidates whether it's his character that nobody ever heard of him I never heard I thought I knew all the wealthy people this guy Tom said mr. impeachment how did that work out Tom hey he spent millions and millions of dollars in Iowa right Millions he got less than 1% he got like 1/3 of 1% I I wrote a little note did you see it it said Tom it's not so easy doing what I did is it not so easy that's all you have to do is ask many Mike he's in there for a fortune oh yeah he'll he wish he never started he wished he'd never many Mike he wish he never started he said well Trump can do it I'm gonna do it too unfortunately it's not working out too well was that the worst debate performance in history I turned on cuz that you know they had a big audience everybody wanted to see whether or not he was good at what was supposed to be doing up here he turned out to be a total catastrophe that 35 million people can you believe that's a big audience very big and what a killer but this guy steyr he spends all this money he's not that wealthy he spends all of this money and you shouldn't waste your vote on him tomorrow have to be honest the people by the way the Republicans allowed to vote anyway either them are you ready are you ready let's do it together I assume this is okay from a campaign finance standpoint I assume Lindsay Tim our great congressmen are we allowed to do so am I allowed to request first we have to figure out who would be the weakest candidate against president  and then if it's legal I always say if it's permissible by law because they have so many little booby traps but they only like getting the Republicans Democrats skirt right but we'll see what happens about that the Democrats but let me ask you this Lindsay Tim you're pros these are two of the greatest guys I know so let me ask you this so I don't know what the record attendance is in this arena but I was told that we broke it by a lot and you get the people outside are we allowed to tell them who we would like them to vote for cuz you're allowed to skip all right so wait a minute let's do a poll we do this for the fake news back there ready who would be the best candidate for us not for them we're ready ready so let's go through them just quickly we won't include steyr cuz he's a loser he's out we wanted to who would be the best with this is a real pump this isn't one of those fake polls taken by in all fairness I Love You Fox taken by Fox the worst pollster this guy this pulsar hates Trump's guts I was losing the last election by a fortune they said he did great with women what everything was wrong and they never replaced this guy but but watch this you ready so first we'll go let's say sleepy Joe right so right that will go crazy birdy then will go mini Mike I don't think mini Mike I think he's out of it should we include mini mica or not mini mike is gone mini Mike his gun I think he's gone he doesn't have a chance so let's not talk and he's not in your election anyway so let's forget so many Mike I hear mini Mike by the way has left he's basically given up that's what I hear he gave up he gave up now I hope what I just said keeps him in you know he's the kind of a guy he he'll stay in because I don't want to be wrong Mike it's time to go home go home Mike and enjoy your life go home and spend some money on something so let's just go we'll go because okay do you agree we'll go for the two look Pocahontas we could forget about her  Pocahontas I came out with that name far too early because those Bernie Amber's they got you know little M's you got soda horrible two people and they said you know she's not done but she's just so damn mean we can't vote for her she's a mean one she is mean so Pocahontas should we leave her in around how about Klobuchar not gonna happen so really we're down to two candidates right sleepy Joe Biden and crazy Bernie so this is appalled I guarantee this as much as they hate me they hate me they'll gonna put this all over the place we have a pall of like 30,000 people inside and out they're doing it outside too we have a poll are you ready who do I so in other words who's the weaker of the two I'm not interested in who those better no no I'm not interested wait so ready in other words who do I want to run against meaning meaning very simple we put it into nice simple language who the hell is easier to be right so who is easier for us not me for us to be ready crazy Bernie or sleepy Joan I don't know I think maybe crazy Bernie has it a little bit but once more just quick ready Kray he said it doesn't matter you're beautiful I hope so I hope so so who is easier to be crazy birdie or sleepy Joe they think bernie is easier to be they think Bernie's into the pit so whether it's Bernie Sanders plan to eliminate private health care Elizabeth Warren's plan I told you that I had more Indian blood in me than her even though I have none I have done zero I have none I have none I said I have more Indian blood in me than she has and she choked she said I'm gonna show up in ownership she hired this company and they went out and did a blood test 1024 3 so that means I probably won somewhere down the line a million years ago I'm telling you that was horrible she choked we don't want a person to win the chokes we don't want to choke artists right one thing you will say about me I'm not a choker with all these people for years they're after me for you can have chokers we can't have chokers as your president so Elizabeth Warren's plan to eliminate America's borders and that's what you or Minnie Mike's plan to eliminate your Second Amendment and take away your guns up many Mike wants to take away you go the insanity of the Democrat Party is wide millions of registered Democrat voters are joining our movement they are joining our great new Republican Party this November we are going to take back the house we are going to hold the Senate and we are going to keep the White House I wonder what they say when they go down the road and they see these groups of 200 people seriously I wonder what they say they never talk about they'll say Joe Biden had a fabulous crowd today fabulous so fabulous that there's like five people and they'll leave and they'll say President Trump had a smattering of   s'matter they use the word smattering a lot this is not let's let them hear it this is not a smash this is a big this is not his style turn the camera that's not a smell  that is not a smattering I hate it they say Donald Trump you know in India I hate to say this to you but so they actually have a hundred and twenty nine thousand seat stadium did you say it the place was packed and they did better than most they gave me credit for a hundred thousand that was not bad it's a hundred and twenty nine the stadium halls a hundred and if they had a field that's about three times its Cricket it's the biggest stadium and they'd 129 I was with the Prime Minister of India Modi great guy loved by the people of India and we had an amazing thing and I went in and here's the problem this is a big crowd and normally I like talking about my crowds because I get the crowds like nobody but I just got back from a hundred and forty or fifty or sixty thousand people and now I'm coming here what is this place hold fifteen it's hard to be enthused you understand that I may never be excited again about a crowd after going to India but they have think of this they have 1.5 billion people we have 350 so we're doing pretty well I'll tell you what but I love this crowd and I love that crowd to tell you they have a great love for they have a great love they have a great leader and they have a great love for the people of this country were that was really a worthwhile trip with us tonight are both of your incredible US senators two incredible friends two warriors Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator Tim Scott come up  and by the way Tim's incredible mother is right here in the front row you know as they're doing that they got this beginners good almost do a poll in the two of them but we're not doing this but Lindsey is a true fighter for South Carolina loves the estate and as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee he said you know that right he's the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee so important so important senator Graham has been leading the charge to help us confirm a record number of judges to uphold the Constitution Israel and Lindsey was amazing you remember for justice Brett Kavanaugh remember how badly great job Lindsay great job there Thank You senators Scott is a leading superstar he's a superstar but he is a leader in lowering health care costs like nobody has done it you know people don't know but in the last year prescription drug prices came down for the first time in 51 years and that was with no Democrat help if we had their help we could lower it by 50% but we'll get their help one of these days they're gonna get smart senator scott provides world-class care for our veterans what he's done for our veteran veterans is incredible and bringing investment to distressed communities across our country through Opportunity Zones including 135 right here in South Carolina and that's what it is Tim Scott came to my office with an idea he said opportunities and I said to him what the hell is that what is it right Tim and he went through a whole big thing and I said this baby could work and we tried it it is an incredible success and what he's done for this country isn't viable it's incredible Lindsay won't start with Lindsay say a few words please welcome to South Carolina miss Brendan you know when you're gonna win you've been a damn good rosin thank you for 200 conservative judges thank you for justice Cavanaugh and justice Korsak thank you for rebuilding the military and killing the terrorists thank you for the strongest economy of my lifetime and thank you more than anything else for putting up with the neverending you have to go through all right USA USA USA USA USA if if South Carolina I said if South Carolina is Trump country let me hear you speak  if you have if you have benefited from the Trump economy let me hear you scream  okay what what one last thing one last thing one last thing if you want four more years of president  well that was quite a display wasn't it now there's a lot of love in this a lot of people said to me friends of mine they're very successful they say how do you speak in front of 25,000 people and 10,000 people and all of this you know why there's such love in the room it's easy no it's true there is such I explained they don't understand it because they're not for doing that but I say there is such unbelievable love in the room that it's easy to do it's sort of easy to do we're all so thrilled to be joined by many more great leaders from across the state and as some of you may be know I like this guy for a long time governor Henry McMaster come up and come up representatives Joe Wilson Jeff Duncan William Timmons Ralph Norman Tom Rice and the chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party through McKissack  and as I introduced somebody and I'll just say stay there cuz he was brave but he got hit hard he's a very special man retired Marine Corps Major General and most of you know he received the Congressional Medal of Honor James E Livingston and James just relax where's Joe he got hit hard thank you James Congressional Medal of Honor winner thank you James they are great brave people you know we have the Congressional Medal of Honor and we have the Presidential Medal of Freedom and they're both the highest awards one civilian one is military and I always say getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom is much less painful because when I read them off I'll read like with James or with so many of the Congressional Medal of Honor as many are not living to be honest with you and I'll read stories where one of them recently going up a hill hit 19 times by gunfire grabbing four people bringing him down getting onto a helicopter falling out of the helicopter hitting a tree on the way down hitting a tree they went back and saved him but he died later I mean those are tough deals those are tough deal and we have one right here whose living we have one right here who's living but they are tough so thank you very much for being here and maybe I could ask our governor our great governor of this incredible state to say a few words please Henry  who is the greatest president in the whole world whom we love more than anybody in the world and what is the name of the president who loves you and whom illegal send back to the White House for four more glorious years and what is the greatest country on the face of the earth thank you very much and where's Alan is your son here your great son terney general Alan thank you very much take good care of him okay thank you Thank You Alan and thanks the Republicans all over America we are now working on things that nobody ever thought possible since my election over 121 thousand new jobs have been created right here in South Carolina we've lifted 10 million people off welfare including 7 million off of food stamps and that's a good thing got a bad thing they're working and they have great jobs and they love getting up in the morning and they're making much more money and it costs our country nothing we make money they pay taxes it's a whole different deal median household income has reached the highest level in the history of our country the unemployment rate nationwide has hit the lowest rate in over 50 years the average unemployment rate from my administration is the lowest for any US president in recorded history about that one that's a good the unemployment rate among African Americans Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans has reached record lows black youth unemployment has reached an all-time low black poverty levels are the lowest ever recorded in the history of our country for decades Democrat politicians betrayed african-americans they force their children into failing schools they ship their jobs to foreign countries they push their unfair sentencing policies you know about that Alice you know Alice and they favored illegal aliens over their own constituents you know that that's been happening for a long my administration is reversing these failed policies and delivering record games for African Americans we are going to compete for every single vote in 2020 and we expect to win a historic share of the black vote come election day we are supporting working families by fighting paid we got something that nobody thought could happen paid family leave reducing the cost of child care and giving 40 million American families an average of 2200 dollars more in their pockets thanks to the Republican child tax credit Republican not Democrat we are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that decimated manufacturing all across your state and all across our country for years politicians sold you out to global special interests enriching other countries at your expense that ended that ended but I am not the president of the globe I don't want to be the president of the world I am the president of the United States of America last month we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand-new US Mexico Canada agreement into law the u.s. MCA is a tremendous giant beautiful victory for South Carolina farmers ranchers manufacturers all across the state nothing like it what you had to go through with NAFTA everybody was leaving it was a disgrace that was ever signed you know it better than anybody you had those empty hulks all over the all over the country all over this state all around the world we are demanding trade that is fair and my all-time favorite word reciprocal reciprocal got it before after years of building up other countries we are finally rebuilding our country we are finally putting America first on Noah's you have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than the issue of immigration every Democrat running for president supports free federal welfare for illegal aliens funded by you the American tax they want to treat illegal aliens people that come into our country illegally better than they want to treat our military and our veterans not only does illegal immigration drain our treasury but it threatens innocent lives I recently invited to the White House the granddaughter of a 92 year old woman who was raped beaten brutalized and murdered by an illegal alien who had previously been set free in New York City here in Charleston County an illegal alien was recently charged with sexually assaulting a young girl in the fourth grade in Berkeley County officers captured a previously deported ms-13 gang member who shot a man to death before dousing the body in gasoline and setting him on fire and he should have never been in our country he shouldn't have loud he shouldn't have been allowed  it's been built and by the way just in case you haven't heard it is being built and that you know and you know they're gonna go nuts they're gonna go nuts they thought they got me you know they said okay have you heard him recently okay he's building the wall and you think it's easy getting that kind of money to build a wall when I have a whole party and a deep state and some never Trump is there a dying breed though the good thing they're on respirator they're on Rose there are mouths to mouth resuscitation you can do it I'm not doing it there are mouth-to-mouth resuscitation the never Trump errs but you think it's easy it's not but that's been built but you know what they say now okay he's building the wall but Mexico's not paying for it yes they are I actually they are they are they are paying for and some of the fake news knows that but their reviews are reported but that's okay you'll see you'll see what's going on and I want to thank Mexico because by the way right now they have 27,000 soldiers on our border protecting our border we have Mexico protected and they only do that for Trump they don't do that for sleepy Joe they don't do that for crazy Bernie and they don't do it for mini Mike that's for sure they're only doing that for Trump right only 27,000 soldiers protecting our border in this region of the country alone last year I saw they've been treated so badly right they are great they're brave they're tough any men two tough guys in here but anybody want to be a nice officer it's tough stuff right they go into those nests they call them nests that's where these guys are together and they knocked the hell I mean if they have to I have to be very careful I don't want to get them in trouble because the press wants us to be very politically correct so so let me change it around they go into a nest of ms-13 and they say oh hello gentlemen how are you and on occasion they have a fight they never lose those fights we need people like that hello gentlemen how are you how many people did you kill last year how many people did you kill last year with a knife because they like knives because it's more painful this is the kind of people that we were letting into our country ice has taken them out of our country by the thousands by the thousand last year ice officers arrested 12 thousand criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery rape and many for a thing called murderer on Wednesday we won the big case in federal court did you see that  we won the case unanimously unanimously federal appeals court where we don't have to give money to sanctuary cities and states if they don't work with us fighting finally finally why should we yet the Democrat candidates oppose all detention of illegal aliens they want unfettered catch-and-release we have ended that program it was not easy we have to go through courts everything as a court everything is a suit we do anything we turn to the right they sue as we turn to the left they sue us we win so but we're winning you know that we have 218 judges now it's like good and let me just preface that by saying I know they give fair opinions it bears no relationship to who appoints them but I never win with an Obama appointed judge ever I don't win now we have great judges going on to the courts great judges they're fair judges they're judges that truly love our Constitution  and their judges that if we feel it's right they don't want to invite the world to trespass across our borders very simple the Democrat field also supports deadly sanctuary cities that release violent criminal aliens you know that you've been reading you all you have to do is pick up a paper every day they release these horrible criminals to terrorize their communities we don't do that anymore we won't let it happen and now we don't have to give sanctuary cities and states the money that they're gonna want it's a whole game change and they don't even want to report it I don't know I didn't see much they keep talking about the virus are the viruses Trump doing a good job oh I don't think so I don't think so Chuckie Schumer no I don't think he's sort of good job this guy doesn't know he's alive Oh what bad people Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans not for criminal alien thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border we have reduced illegal border crossings by a staggering 75 percent since last spring and we have ended catch and release permanently you know what catching releases we catch him we grab them we say could we please have your address address I don't know what the hell is that address they don't have an address could we have a number Java phone could we call your mother or your father and say in four years you have to come to court so what they do is they catch them they get some information that the guy has no idea where he lives and you know it's one of those things in many cases and then release we release them into our country we don't do that anymore and if you knew what it took we catch them and we take some information and we release them in and we say please report back in four years from now for your trial and about two percent come back and they're the ones that are the dumbest people I've ever seen two percent nobody comes back it's crazy but we're getting it changed and it would be so easy they called loopholes little pulse that word alone they called loopholes it would be so easy if we had some Democrat support we don't have any Democrat support they want open borders they don't care about crime Border Patrol has seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics ever in the history of our country this last year we have deported record numbers of gang members we are building the wall faster than ever and we will soon be building more than one mile a day Washington Democrats have never been more extreme 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie Sanders health care takeover they want to take away you health care while the Washington Democrats are trying to destroy your health care and to destroy your Social Security that's what's going to happen my administration is protecting your Social Security your Medicare and is fighting to give you great health care and we are defending your right to keep the doctor and to keep your plan of choice you remember when President Obama would say you can keep your doctor you can keep your plan 28 times he said you can keep your doctor and you can keep your plan while he lied we should impeach him we should impeach him for that he lied 28 times you'll keep your doctor keep your plan it's wonderful Gregg went through the roof we're doing a great job we killed the individual mandate which is the most unbelievable horrible and it's not really Obamacare anymore but we're running the Hulk of it and we're trying to kill it entirely and then we will put it back you'll have great health care and pre-existing conditions will be totally protected pre-existing conditions will be totally protected we're making healthcare better and much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the five years before I took office we are now offering plans already that are up to 60% less expensive than the old Obamacare think of that and better and better we are stopping surprised medical billing a disgrace and I signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices which they don't have to do but now they do those same prices fall very very fast we have approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs which are just as good as the name-brand drugs but at a tiny fraction of the cost they're just as good I always like a name-brand I mean there's something that there's no difference probably sometimes they're better we've totally transformed veteran's health care getting long-sword VA choice and VA accountability passed after 50 years and hopefully nobody in this great arena needs it but we have passed something that they said couldn't happen the spectacular right to try you know what that is if you're terminally ill you go all over the world if you have no money you can't you go home and you die you terminally ill they go all over the world if they have money they go to Asia they go to Europe they wanted they're searching we have the greatest doctors in the world the greatest labs and the world greatest technicians in the world and we have pipelines of drugs coming out for different problems and now you sign a piece of paper we're not gonna hold anybody liable you get to use that drug and the results have been unbelievable I'm believing hopefully you don't need but now we have right to try they've been trying for 51 years to get that approved 51 years and we got it approved I guess I'm good at getting things approved aren't I those people that I brought up here were the reason to every one of them they were incredible thank you thank you Senators Congressmen they were the reasons we are combating the opioid epidemic drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly thirty two years and we have launched new initiatives combating kidney disease which is a big deal you know kidney disease is so tough that people die literally because it's so much work they died from overwork it's it's just crazy in theory they could keep them going for a long time but the work and the dialysis and all of the things they have to do and we've done things that make it so much easier and it's just such an honor to be involved and also Alzheimer's disease we're really making strides it's really a great thing we're pursuing new advances in neonatal research to care for America's youngest patients and breaking all records in so doing virtually every Democrat candidate has declared their unlimited support for extreme late term abortion ripping baby straight from the mother's womb right up until the very moment of birth that is why I've asked Congress to prohibit late term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift of God the Democrat Party is the party of high taxes high crime open borders late term abortion socialism blatant corruption and the total obliteration of your Second Amendment the Republican Party is the party of the American worker the American family the American Dream and of course the late great Abraham Lincoln  Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background every community and every walk of life we are the party of boundless optimism excitement energy and enthusiasm we are a big tent we are a big party we are the party of big ideas for the future this is where it is this is where is this is not the old Republican Party this is a very inclusive party this is a great party Republicans are proudly fighting for nationwide school choice including right here in South Carolina we want to give school choice to every child in America who needs it from kindergarten to twelfth grade because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school and I passed criminal justice reform to give former prisoners a second chance at life that's a big deal this could not have been done by anyone but the Republican Party you know they came to me a group of people and they wanted criminal justice reform and I wasn't sure about the issue but we had a lot of great Republicans very much in favor of it including people that happen to be right here today and they were very much and I started studying the issue worked hard on the issue and criminal justice reform you saw Alice Johnson come out of prison 22 years she had another 20 years left think of it for a phone call or a phone call a great woman but we have many people coming out that shouldn't be there for anywhere near those terms not for those terms but they came to see me a group a group of people came Van Jones he came up oh thank you sir if they needed four senators they needed help I called Lindsey I called everybody I called Tim who was so great on everything I called everybody they needed four senators and maybe five and they needed help with some of the ones that weren't moving in the right direction and I gave it to him and I got it and it was not easy and we got criminal justice reform and then I signed it and then this Van Jones has a program that gets no ratings absolutely at all and they say Van Jones wants to thank everybody for criminal justice reform so I called our great first lady over and said darling please take a look it's gonna be so nice because honestly look they couldn't have done even close without being I got all these people together got him done god it was impossible previous presidents couldn't even think about it they couldn't even think about doing it and they tried although I don't think they tried too hard they could have never done it so he gets up and he starts by saying I want to thank the Reverend Al Sharpton I knew what he was very heavy he looked better when he was heavy hits Joe he's one of the few people he really looked better what he was in he looked much better when he was heavy I gotta tell him I have to explain cuz I know him very well he would admit that he has a lot of respect for your president but he can't admit it on television but he called that he said I want to thank the Reverend Al Sharpton and then name after name after name of people that I never heard of my wife said are they gonna think about you right are they gonna think about you I said darling of course I said he's saving me till the end because I was by far it's true this is true Tim Lindsay this is true I said he's saving me till the end it's gonna be such an honor to be recognized because I don't get enough publicity I need a little bit more he got to the end and he didn't say it and she looked at me she sort of smiled I think she loved it in a certain way you know but she sort of smiled she said it's too bad I said yes then he said I've one more thing to say we must get out this year and fight and vote against this President of the United States can you believe it's a two-story Van Jones I mean these are just terrible that they could so I was a little embarrassed in front of our great first lady but I'll I'll live through it somehow I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem  we recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights 52 years 52 years the Golan Heights have been fighting and fighting for I did it and I did the true capital Jerusalem right how many presidents promised that every president for many many decades promised we're going to do that they never did it I did it we did a lot we've invested more than two trillion dollars in the United States military including more than 150 million dollars this year in Joint Base Charleston Fort Jackson and Parris Island  and we created these six branch of the American armed forces the space force we have another branch 72 years not for 72 years the Air Force have they done a new branch we did the space force you know when I first said if they thought everybody thought I was joking I said I'm not joking they thought it was like from the comic strips or the future movies I said no it's all about space in a number of years people are gonna say I can't believe we didn't do this sooner you know we need a little vision we need a little foresight and you know what I mentioned space force and arenas like this it gets one of the biggest hands because that's where it's at that's where it's going unfortunately or fortunately we needed for defense we needed for offer six friends 72 years four years we watched as your politicians apologize for America now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of South Carolina at stake in our present battle is the actual survival of our nation I really believe that it's the survival you see these maniacs that we're dealing with they want to give away everything we will end up being Venezuela large-scale version if you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure then we must devote everything we have towards victory in November of 2020 November 3rd to be exactly only this way can we save the America we love and drain the swamp I never thought it was this deep man I talked about a swamp you never told me it was this bad fellas that swamp is bad he got dirty cops at the top of the FBI you got a lot of dirty people but you also have phenomenal people in the FBI and other places but we're draining that swamp I never know is going to be this dirty and we're getting a lot of help from a lot of great people and with your help we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare-to-work dependence to independence and from poverty to prosperity this is what's happening think of it from poverty to prosperity look at some of the stories that you have over there look at some of the incredible stories look at Kim Scott look at that incredible story oh really it's a good Lindsay will say it and I give about 99% of the credit to Tim Scott's mother I do I guarantee you Tim there was no games right there was no games in your household it was let's go to work right great mother thank you very much thank you together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair safe sane and lawful system finally of immigration we will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase made in the USA we will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine finding new cures for childhood cancer infectious diseases like we're working on right now and ending the AIDS epidemic nobody thought this was possible in less now than nine years that it should have been started before we will end the AIDS epidemic who would have thought we could have done that we will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant our flag on Mars you have to land on and then you go tomorrow we will defend privacy free speech religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms  and above all we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America we support protect and defend the Constitution of the United States we stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement we believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life we believe that faith and family not government and bureaucracy are the true American Way we believe that children should be taught to love our country honor our history and to always respect our great American flag and we live by the words of our national model In God We Trust from Greenville to Columbia and from Myrtle Beach to Hilton Head - right here in Charleston this state is home to some of the toughest men and strongest women ever to walk on the face of the earth it's true we stand on the shoulders of American patriots who have crossed the oceans blazed the trails settle the continent tame the wilderness dug out the Panama Canal laid down the railroads revolutionized industry liberated millions from poverty hunger and disease one two world wars defeated fascism and communism and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world and we are making it greater every single day  proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country we are returning power to you the American people with your help your devotion in your drive we are going to keep on working we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning winning winning so you have the best year ever on record right southeast best year you've ever had right you have a great governing of two great senators great Congress but the greatest year you've ever had but some people in South Carolina are getting a little tired I'm surprised to hear this have winning I'm very supportive and some actually called they're too great senators into a big meeting a town hall and they said Senator Scott Senator Lindsey Graham we're tired of winning in South Carolina can't do it anymore it's too much it's too much we've had years where we weren't winning and it was okay we couldn't get jobs we took it easy but we we just want you to go and see your friend the president and we want you to represent us that we want you to say mr. president South Carolina is tired of winning we don't want to win anymore we are tired sick tired of winning and they going to come in today sir I hate to tell you but the people of South Carolina don't want to win anymore and I'll say mr. senators let me tell you something South Carolina does want to win they want to win more than anybody and we're not going to change a thing because we're winning like never before and you know what we're going to keep it that way sorry senator just go back to South Carolina senator go back to South Carolina because we are one movement one people one family and one glorious nation under God America is thriving like never before and ladies and gentlemen of South Carolina the best is yet to come best is yet to come the best is yet to come because together we will make America wealthy again we will make America strong again we will make America proud again we will make America safe again and we will make America great again Thank You South Carolina thank you "
and hello again from fox news in washington today from the white house we're on the president's patio just outside the oval office president trump you've agreed to answer all manner of questions no subject off-limits thank you and welcome back to fox news sunday thank you very much let's start with the surge of the coronavirus across the country in recent months you still talk about it as quote burning embers but i want to put up a chart that shows where we are with the illness over the last four months as you can see we hit a peak here in april 36 000 cases it's cases a day cases then it went down and now since june it has gone up more than doubled one day this week 75 000 new cases more than double chris that's because we have great testing because we have the best testing in the world if we didn't test you wouldn't be able to show that chart if we tested half as much those numbers would be down but but this is burning embers sir this is a foreign but i don't say i say flames we'll put out the flames and we'll put out in some cases just burning embers we also have burning embers we have embers and we do have flames florida became more flame-like but it's uh it's going to be under control and you know it's not just this country it's many countries we don't talk about it in the news they don't talk about mexico and brazil and still parts of europe which actually got hit sooner than us so it's a little ahead of us in that sense but you take a look why don't they talk about mexico which is not helping us and all i can say is thank god i build most of the wall because if i didn't have the wall up we would have a much bigger problem with mexico but sir we have the seventh highest mortality rate in the world our mortality rate is higher than brazil it's higher than russia and the european union has us on a travel ban yeah i think what we'll do well we have them in a travel ban too chris i closed them off if you remember i was the one that did the european union very early but when you talk about mortality rates i think it's the opposite i think we have one of the lowest mortality rates we had 900 deaths in a single day we will take this week ready do you please get me the mortality right yeah kaylee's right here i heard we have one of the lowest maybe the lowest mortality rate anywhere in the world you have the numbers please because i heard we had the best mortality right number number one low mortality right i hope you show the scenario because it shows what fake news is all about you said we had the worst mortality rate in the world and we have the best all right it's a little complicated but bear with us we went with numbers from johns hopkins university which charted the mortality rate for 20 countries hit by the virus the u.s ranked seventh better than the united kingdom but worse than brazil and russia the white house went with this chart from the european cdc which shows italy and spain doing worse but countries like brazil and south korea doing better other countries doing better like russia aren't included in the white house charge california locking down again florida deadliest day of the entire pandemic uh hospitals at capacity a number of places around the country shortages of testing shortages of personal protective equipment for nurses and doctors a lot of people say this is because we don't have a national plan you talk about states we don't have a national plan do you take responsibility for that look i take responsibility always for everything because it's ultimately my job too i have to get everybody in line some governors have done well some governors have done poorly they're supposed to have supplies they didn't have i supplied everybody now we have somewhat of a surge in certain areas and other areas we're doing great but we have a surge in certain areas but you don't hear people complaining about ventilators we've got all the ventilators we can use we're supplying them to other countries we go out into parking lots and everything everybody gets a test we find if we did half the testing with all of that being said i'm glad we did it this is the right way to do it i'm glad we did what we're doing but we have more tests by far than any country in the world but sir testing is up 37 well that's very good i understand cases are up 194 it isn't just the testing has gone up it's that the virus has spread the positivity rate has increased there are many of those cases many of those cases are young people that would heal in a day they have the sniffles and we put it down as a test many of them don't forget i guess it's like 99.7 percent people are going to get better and in many cases they're going to get better very quickly we go out and we look and then on the news look if you go back to the news all of your even your wonderful competitors you'll see cases are up well cases are up many of those cases shouldn't even be cases cases are up because we have the best testing in the world and we have the most tested no country has ever done what we've done in terms of testing we are the envy of the world they call and they say the most incredible job anybody's done is our job on testing because we're going to very shortly be up to 50 million tests you look at other countries they don't even do tests they do test if somebody walks into the hospital they're sick they're really sick they test them then or they'll test them in a doctor's office but they don't go around have massive areas of testing and we do and i'm glad we do but it really skews the numbers i'm going to do you a favor because i'm sure a lot of people listening right now are going to say trump he tries to play it down he tries to make it not seem as serious as it is 75 000 cases a day show me the death chart well i don't have the doubt the death chart is a thousand cases a day excuse me it's all too much it shouldn't be one case it came from china they should have never let it escape they should have never let it out but it is what it is take a look at europe take a look at the numbers in europe and by the way they're having surgeries are 6 000 in the whole european union they don't test they don't test like it's impossible that they don't have the viruses badly it's possible that they don't test that's what's possible we find cases and many of those cases heal automatically we're finding in a way we're creating trouble certainly we're creating trouble for the fake news to come along and say oh we have more cases look we did something that nobody's ever done not only the ventilators where we're supplying them all over the world we did a testing program the likes of which nobody's ever done before the head of the cdc dr redfield said this on tuesday i do think the fall and the winter of 2020 and 2021 are going to be probably one of the most difficult times that we've experienced in american public health do you agree with dr redfield i don't know and i don't think he knows i don't think anybody knows with this this is a very tricky deal everybody thought the summer it would go away and we'd come back in the fall well in the summer it came they used to say the heat the heat was good for it and it really knocks it out remember and then it might come back in the fall so they got that one wrong they they got a lot wrong they got a lot wrong the world health got a tremendous amount wrong they basically did whatever china wanted them to and will save now almost 500 million dollars a year which is nice but the world health got a lot wrong but this is one of the sharpest criticisms of you i agree people say that you talk about the world as you'd like to see it rather than follow the science no well let me let me just ask the question sir why on earth would your administration be involved in a campaign at this point to discredit dr fauci who is the nation's top infectious disease expert because we're not if one man from my administration doesn't like him because he made a few mistakes look dr fauci said don't wear a mask dr fauci told me not to ban china it would be a big mistake i did it over and above his recommendation dr fauci then said you saved tens of thousands of lives more than that he said you saved tens of thousands of lives dr fauci has made some mistakes but i have a very good i spoke to him yesterday at length i have a very good relationship with dr fatcher but sir this week this weekend your white house put out a series of statements so-called mistakes that dr fauci has had made one of your closest aides one of your right-hand men daniel's daniel scavina put out this have you seen this dr dr fawcett who shows him as a leaker and an alarmist oh i don't know that he's a little why he's a little bit of an armist that's okay a little bit i'm going to learn a little bit of an alarm system let me just say dr fauci at the beginning and again i have a great relationship with him i spoke to him at length yesterday dr fauci at the beginning said this will pass don't worry about it this will pass he was wrong dr fauci said don't ban china don't ban china i did he then admitted that i was right you made mistakes too i guess everybody makes i was gonna say you said at one point it's one person coming in from china and we have it under control it's going to be just fine when you have 15 people and the 15 within a couple of days is going to be down to close to zero that's a pretty good job we've done i think we're going to be very good with the coronavirus i think that at some point uh that's going to sort of just disappear i hope i'll be right eventually i will be right eventually you know i said it's going to disappear i'll say it again but it's going to disappear and i'll be right i don't think so right i don't think so you know why it doesn't describe it because i've been right probably more than anybody else then there are masks from the first day that the cdc said that people should wear mass on april 3rd you said you weren't going to you wore a mask for the first time in public at walter reed this weekend question the cdc says if everybody wore a mask for four to six weeks we could get this under control do you regret not wearing a mask in public from the start and would you consider will you consider a national mandate that people need to wear masks no i want people to have a certain freedom and i don't believe in that no and i don't agree with the statement that if everybody wear a mask everything disappears hey dr fauci said don't wear a mask our surgeon general terrific guy said don't wear a mask everybody was saying don't wear a mask all of a sudden everybody's got to wear a mask and as you know masks cause problems too with that being said i'm a believer in masks i think masks are good but i leave it up to the governors many of the governors are changing they're more masked into they like the concept of masks but some of them don't agree i do say this schools have to open young people have to go to school and there's problems when you don't go to school too and there's going to be a funding problem because we're not going to fund when they don't open their schools we're not going to fund them we're not going to give them money if they're not going to school if they don't open two points on that first of all what the federal government gives is only is eight percent ten percent and you know what uh that's a lot of money and you're going to take them you know where the money goes it goes overwhelmingly to disadvantaged kids and children with disabilities let this i wouldn't just put send more money so that schools be safer let the schools open did you ever see the statistics on young people below the age of 18 the state of new jersey had thousands of deaths of all of these thousands one person below the age of 18 in the entire state one person and that was a person that had i believe he said diabetes one person below the age of 18 died in the state of new jersey during all of this you know they had a hard time and they're doing very well now so that's it the stimulus bill is running out the end of this month the republicans say they want liability limits which the democrats don't like you say that you want a payroll tax cut which even some republicans are cool to well a lot of republicans like it will you only sign a bill that has those two provisions well we're going to see but we do need protections because businesses are going to get sued just because somebody walked in you don't know where this virus comes from they'll sit down at a restaurant they'll sue the restaurant the guy's out of business so we do need some kind of a you know immunity you do need it just like you need immunity for the police okay whether they like it or not you need immunity for the police but they do need a form of immunity you don't know if they caught it and nobody's ever going to be able to prove it one way or the other you can't put these you know the people out look the democrats don't want to do that because they're total they're totally captured by the lobby of lawyers the lawyers lobby is probably the most powerful in the country what about the payroll tax cut uh i want to see it i want to see if it's win the bill uh i'll have to see but yeah i would consider not signing it if we don't have a payroll tax cut yes hot enough that you're here mr president it's hot it's about uh well sort of almost record-breaking you know we wanted to do it inside this was your choice but i wanted you to sweat a little bit well we both are there has been a spike in violent crime in america in recent weeks we've seen deaths up in new york deaths up in chicago shootings how do you explain it and what are you going to do about it i explain it very simply by saying that they're democrat-run cities they're liberally run they're stupidly run we have forced them in seattle to end the chop because you know we were going in that following day you probably have heard it we were getting ready to go in we were all set and when they heard that we were going they set their police force liberal democrats have been running cities in this country for decades poorly why is it so bad right now uh they've run them poorly it was always bad but now it's gotten totally out of control and it's really because they want to defund the police and biden wants to fun sir he does not look he signed a charter with bernie sanders i will get that one just like i was right on the mortality rate did you read the charter that he agreed there's nothing about the funding oh really it says abolish it says let's go all right let me give me the charter please all right chris you've got to start studying for this he says defund the police he says defund the police they talk about abolishing the police they talk about illegal aliens i look forward to seeing that meanwhile the george floyd murder has reignited the issue of racism in policing in this country i want to give you a couple of statistics nationwide blacks are twice as likely fewer in absolute numbers but in terms of per capita blacks are twice as likely to be shot and killed by police as whites are in minneapolis over the last five years police used force against blacks at a rate seven times that against whites can you understand why blacks would be angry at that of course i do of course they do many whites are killed also you have to say that i mean many many whites are killed i hate the sound but this is going on for decades this is going on for a long time long before i got here you know if you look at what's going on in portland those are anarchists and we've taken a very tough stand if we didn't take a stand in portland you know we've arrested many of these leaders if we didn't take that stand right now you would have a problem like you they were going to lose portland so let's see what this says here prosecution sanctuary cities incentivize illegal alien expand asylum abolish immigration detention no that's not what we'll find okay this thing is many pages long end prosecution of illegal border crosses support deathly and these are the worst things i'm not disagreeing with you on any of those i'm disagreeing about defund police the white house never sent us evidence the bernie biden platform calls for defunding or abolishing police because there is none it calls for increased funding for police departments that meet certain standards biden has called for redirecting some police funding for related programs like mental health counseling this week you said that black lives matter and the confederate flag are both matters issues of freedom of speech but in the case of the confederate flag there are a lot of people who say these were traitors who split from this country fought this country in large part to preserve slavery is the confederate flag offensive it depends on who you're talking about when you're talking about when people proudly have their confederate flags they're not talking about racism they love their flag it represents the south they like the south people right now like the south i say it's freedom of of many things but it's freedom of speech so you're not offended by it well i'm not offended either by black lives matter that's freedom of speech and you know the whole thing with canceled culture we can't cancel our whole history we can't forget that the north and the south fought we have to remember that otherwise we'll end up fighting again you can't you can't just cancel all this but let me ask you this when it gets to be more than just cancel well maybe this is cancelled culture the national defense authorization act the ndaa you have threatened to veto it because in the bill and this is supported by republicans as well as democrats it would rename army bases named for confederate generals now this is a bill that funds military operations it gives soldiers a pay raise you're going to veto that because they'll get their pay raise hey look don't tell me this i got soldiers the biggest pay raises in the history of our understood of our military i got soldiers brand new equipment brand new jets brand new rockets brand new 2.5 trillion i did more for the military than any president that's ever had this because i think that fort bragg fought robert and lee all of these forts that have been named that way for a long time decades and decades the military says they're for that excuse me i don't care what the military says i do i'm supposed to make the decision fort bragg is a big deal we won two world wars nobody even knows general bragg we won two world wars go to that community where fort bragg is in a great state i love that state go to go to the community say how do you like the idea of renaming fort bragg and then what are we going to name it you're going to name it after the reverend al sharpton what are you going to name it chris tell me what you're going to name it so there's a whole thing here we won two world wars two world wars beautiful world wars that were vicious and horrible and we want them out of fort bragg we want to out of all of these forts that now they want to throw those names away and no i'm against that and you know what most other people are and i even i don't believe in polls because i see the fakest polls i've ever seen but that poll is a 64 thing which actually surprised me we won world wars out of these out of these military bases no i'm not going to go changing them i'm not going to say you'll be each of them i might yeah i might at mount rushmore on july 3rd you said that we face a far left fascism in this country and then you said this our children are taught in school to hate their own country and to believe that the men and women who built it were not heroes but that were villains you said our children are taught in school to hate our country where do you see that i just look at i look at school i watch i read look at the stuff now they want to change if 1492 columbus discovered america you know we grew up you grew up we all did that's what we learned now they want to make it the 1619 project where did that come from what does it represent i don't even know so slavery that's what they're saying but they don't even know they just want to make a change cancel culture i hate the term actually but i use it better they cancel people hate i think so yeah i think so look at the professors look at what's going on in the colleges if a conservative goes on a college and look we have as many as them excuse me i think to the best of my knowledge we're sitting at the white house and the oval office is right behind me we have as many as them but who's them the liberal radical left and i'm not talking all i think liberal i i could tell you i like a lot of liberal people like like a lot of liberal governors and senators but but chris we have a radical left destructive ideology and it's being taught in our schools and don't act like you're surprised to hear this there are books written about it and we can't let that go on we can't let them change the true meaning of what we're all about and that's what they're trying to do and i don't want it to happen not on my watch it's not going to happen on my watch mr president you'll be happy to know that fox news has a new poll out today and you're going to be the very first person to hear about it in the national horse race joe biden leads you by eight points 49 to 41 that's i think three four points slimmer than it was a month ago and on the issues people trust biden more to handle the coronavirus by 17 points on race relations by 21 points and even on the economy they trust biden moore by one point i understand we still have more than a hundred days to this election but at this point you're losing first of all i'm not losing because those are fake polls they were fake in 2016 and now they're even more fake the polls were much worse in 2016. they interview 22 percent republican well how do you do 22 republican you see what's going on uh i have other polls that put me leading and we have polls where i'm leading i have a poll where we're leading in every swing state and i don't believe that you're first of all the fox polls whoever does your fox polls they're among the worst they got it all wrong in 2016. they've been wrong on every poll i've ever seen i must tell you no i'm just telling you and and let me let me ask you this so in the economy so i've always lead on the economy by a lot i know which is why i would like to put two sentences together they wheel them out he goes up he repeats he they ask him questions he reads a teleprompter and then he goes back into his basement you tell me the american people want to have that in an age where we're in trouble with other nations that are looking to do numbers on us so let me ask you a direct question no i'm going to ask you a direct question about joe biden is joe biden senile i don't want to say that i say he's not competent to be president to be president you have to be sharp and tough and so many other things he doesn't even come out of his basement they think oh this is a great campaign so he goes in i'll then make a speech it'll be a great speech and some young guys start writing vice president biden said this this this he didn't say it joe doesn't know he's alive okay he doesn't know he's alive do the american people want that number one number two i built the greatest economy ever built anywhere in the world not only in this country anywhere in the world until we got hit with the china virus we got hit with a virus shouldn't have happened and we had to close up we saved millions of lives now we've opened it up got to go back to school we're open we've got to do things we had the best job numbers we've ever had last month we should have good ones coming up in two weeks look i built the greatest economy in history i'm now doing it again you see the numbers the numbers are through the roof the democrats are purposely keeping their schools close keeping their states close i call to michigan i want to have a big rally in michigan do you know we're not allowed to have a rally in michigan do you know we're not allowed to have a rally in minnesota do you know we're not allowed to have a rally in nevada we're not allowed to have rallies well and these democrat run statements some people would say that that's a health risk some people would say it's fine i mean but i guarantee you there's some issues after time everything was gone 100 they still wouldn't allow it they're not allowing me to do it so they're not that they're not allowing me to have rallies but i got to tell you if i may sir respectfully in the fox poll they ask people who is more competent who's got whose mind is sounder biden beats you in that well i tell you what uh let's take a test let's take a test right now let's go down joe and i will take a test let him take the same test that i took incidentally i took the test too when i heard that you passed it yeah how did you do it well it's not the hardest task no but it has a picture and it says that and it's an element no no no you see that's all misrepresentation that's what it was on the web it's all misrepresentation because yes the first few questions are easy but i'll bet you couldn't even answer the last five questions i'll bet you couldn't they get very hard the last five well one of them was count back from 100 by seven and let me tell you you couldn't answer you couldn't answer all right what's the question many of the questions i'd get you the test i'd like to give it but i guarantee you that joe biden could not answer those questions okay and i answered all 35 questions correctly you you talk about how you're winning campaign's going well why did you replace brad parscale isn't that because he's a great digital guy uh we all like him a lot but i have somebody that i that was involved you know they're all they were all on the 2016 campaign and we have cory and we have all the people and actually steve bannon's been much better not being involved he says the greatest president ever i mean he's saying things that i said let's keep steve out there he's doing a good job but they're all being they're all involved if joe biden got in first of all he won't call the shots the people the radical left people that surround him will call religion will be gone okay life you could forget about that the whole question of life supreme when you say life you mean abortion absolutely a hundred percent that whole question which is a very you know it's always been a 50 50 thing it's actually trending a little bit more toward once religion is going to be gone what does that mean look at what they're doing to the churches they won't let the churches even open if they want to stand in a field six feet apart we've had churches that wanted to stand in fields six feet apart there has never been an administration that's done so much as i have from tax cuts to regulation cuts to rebuilding the military to getting choice for the vets nobody's done the things i've done nobody in three and a half years no other president has been able to do what i've done you're running in large part on the economy you've built it once now we have the coronavirus you're going to build it again and in fact you had great jobs numbers in may you had solid jobs numbers in june but i want you to look at some projections the nonpartisan congressional budget office says the unemployment rate at the end of the year will be ten and a half percent jp morgan says in the fourth quarter gdp will contract by 6.2 percent with states now rolling back some of the reopening and and well there are a lot of republicans there are a lot of republican states like texas but here's they'll be open very soon just ask my question there's no reason for california to do to be doing what they're doing all right except for november 3rd with the states shutting back the reopening in a lot of cases new lockdowns won't the economy still be a problem for you on elections i don't think so i think the economy is expanding and growing beautifully now the democrats want to keep it closed as long as possible because they think that's good for election but i think the economy is doing very well now we're coming back and we're coming back at a level that nobody would have thought possible and we and by the way take a look at another i mean a gauge whether you like it or not the stock market the stock market nasdaq hit its all-time high two weeks ago and it's beaten at 14 different times okay the stock market dow etc is a thousand points away from its all-time high meaning very close we're going to have a stock market perhaps on november 3rd that's the highest in history i want to talk to you about obamacare since the pandemic hit millions of people have lost their jobs and thereby lost their health insurance and almost a half a million have signed up for obamacare your administration just announced that you're signing on to a lawsuit to overturn obamacare and replace it why does it make sense to overturn obamacare which people now are relying on democrats are going to say the man who's wanted to kill obamacare is going to take away the protection for pre-existing conditions first of all we got rid of the individual mandate pre-existing conditions will always be taken care of by me and republicans 100 but you've been in the office three and a half years you don't have people we haven't had uh excuse me you heard me yesterday we're signing a health care plan within two weeks a full and complete health care plan that the supreme court decision on daca gave me the right to do so we're gonna solve we're gonna sign an immigration plan a health care plan and various other plans and nobody will have done what i'm doing in the next four weeks the supreme court gave the president of the united states powers that nobody thought the president had by approving by doing what they did their decision on daca and daca is going to be taken care of also but we're getting rid of it because we're going to replace it with something much better but we got rid of already which was most of obamacare the individual mandate and that i've already won on and we won also on the supreme court but the decision by the supreme court on daca allows me to do things on immigration on health care on other things that we've never done before and you're going to find it to be a very exciting two weeks your niece mary trump has written a book about you and your family and one of her main points is that she says your dad fred trump senior damaged the whole family and here's what she says about what you learned from your father he learned to become the killer you mentioned the man who needs to succeed at all costs who will do anything um to get attention financial rewards and to win do you see any truth in that my father liked to win my father was a very good man he was a strong man it's disgraceful that she said that she was not exactly a family favorite we didn't have a lot of respect or like for her i would have never said that except she writes a book that's so stupid and so vicious and it's a lie my father was a great wonderful man let me just ask you this question this is not a person that i spent very much time with very little time and now i'm glad you've developed a pretty thick skin over the years from decades of attacks in new york tabloids now from the press here and your political opponents here in washington but even for donald trump does it hurt you at all to be attacked in such personal terms by a member of your own family uh it hurts me more about attacking my father not being kind to my mother i have a mother who was like a saint she was incredible she was an incredible woman and she was nasty even to my mother she's a very scarred person she was not much of a family person but look let me just tell you my father was i think he was the most solid person i've ever met and he was a very good person he was a very very good person he was strong but he was good for her to say the kind of things a psychopath that he was a psychopath anybody that knew fred trump would call him a psychopath and you know what if he was i would tell you and i would say you know chris i was with my father and it was impossible my father was he was tough he was tough on me he was tough on all of the kids but tough in a in a solid sense in a really good sense for her to say i think the word she used was psychopath what a disgrace she ought to be ashamed of herself that book is a lie some people were surprised when you agreed to this interview to sit down with me what are you going to ask especially because of some of the mean tweets that you've said about me mike wallace wanna be nasty and obnoxious i will tell you after that one my son peter who you've met called and he said nasty no obnoxious maybe but here's the question one of your beef seems to be that i put democrats on the show and i ask them questions and and i guess the question i have is don't you understand it's my job to put democrats on as well as republicans and to ask them probing questions just like i asked republicans i'm not a big fan of fox i'll be honest with you they've changed a lot since roger ailes and i watch people like swalwell who i don't even know he goes on the show he got less than one percent all of a sudden he's on being interviewed for endless yeah but i i interviewed an answer wait i interviewed nancy i answered i uh interviewed using one tweet after i interviewed nancy pelosi and in the interview i asked her specifically about the fact in february you were in chinatown pitching tourism while the virus was spreading if the president underplayed the threat in the early days speaker pelosi didn't you as well isn't that legitimate to talk to the speaker of the house look i know you very well i respect you a lot i respect your father a lot i thought he's one of the most talented journalists there are and you likewise are a very talented person i do think this i think you are very uh uh i think you are toward the democrat side which is okay i mean it's not true if watch the james comey interview i did in december 17 significant errors in the fisa process and you say that it was handled in a thoughtful and appropriate way yeah he's right i was wrong but you make it sound like you're a a bystander an eyewitness you were the director of the fbi well a lot of this was going on sir sure i'm responsible for that's why i'm telling you i was wrong i was overconfident as director in our procedures you couldn't do as tough an interview with comey i i'd like to think i treat everybody the same it just seems to me that you are very prone to be nice to the democrats and maybe i'm wrong about that chris but it's an honor to be with you it's fine i love it i love it that it's close to 100 degrees your choice again yeah i know that so i'm not saying you're going to lose i am not saying that we saw how you turned it around last time i don't think i'm going to lose at all but if you did how crushing would it be first of all let me just tell you something i know everyone wants to know that because they'd love to see me lose fine i'm not i have not seen that i've been written off do you know how many times i've been i'm not doing it this time don't don't do it because but how crushing would it be and you know why i won't lose because the country in the end they're not going to have a man who who's shot he's shot he's mentally shot let him come out of his basement go around i'll make four or five speeches a day i'll be interviewed by you i'll be interviewed by the worst killers that hate my my guts they hate my guts there's nothing they can ask me that i won't give them a proper answer to some people will like it some people won't like i agree with that but look you answered let biden sit through an interview like this he'll be on the ground crying for mommy he'll say mommy mommy please take me home well we've asked him for an interview sir he can't do an interview he's incompetent there's a number you don't mention it's called the enthusiasm number the enthusiasm for trump is through the roof i haven't mentioned it even higher than last time the enthusiasm for biden is non-existent everyone knows each other but the enthusiasm against you okay that's his only shot right that's his only shot i agree and those people know i'm doing a good job but there's something in my personality that they don't like because look nobody's done what i've done biden wants to come in and ruin our country triple your taxes he wants to do things he wants to add regulations that i've all cut and we still have regulation a lot of regulation but i've cut it down to a level that nobody's nobody ever thought possible he will destroy this country but it won't be him it will be the radical left the same type ideology that took over venezuela one of the richest countries in the world they now have no water they have no food and they have no medicine that's going to happen two final questions a few wins in general not talking about november are you a good loser i'm not a good loser i don't like to lose it i don't lose too often i don't like something but are you gracious you don't know until you see it depends i think mail-in voting is is going to rig the election i really do uh are you suggesting that you might not accept the results of the election i have to say look hillary clinton asked me the same thing no i asked you the same thing in the debate there is a tradition in this country in fact one of the prize of this country is the peaceful transition of power and that no matter how hard fought a campaign is that at the end of the campaign that the loser concedes to the winner not saying that you're necessarily going to be the loser or the winner but that the loser concedes to the winner and that the country comes together in part for the good of the country are you saying you're not prepared now what i'm saying is that i will tell you at the time i'll keep you in suspense well chris and you know what she's the one that never accepted her great she never accepted her loss and she looks like can you give can you give a direct answer you will accept the election look you i have to see no i'm not going to just say yes i'm not going to say you know and i didn't last time either whether it's in 2021 or 2025 how will you regard your years as president of the united states i think i was very unfairly treated uh from before i even won i was under investigation by a bunch of thieves crooks it was an illegal investigation but what about the russia what about the good parts there no i want to know this i have done more than any president in history in the first three and a half years and i've done it suffering through investigations where people have been general flynn where people have been so unfairly treated the russia hoax it was all a hoax the mueller scam it was all a scam it was all false i made a bad decision on one bad decision jeff sessions and now i feel good because he lost overwhelmingly in the great state of alabama here's the bottom line i've been very unfairly treated and i don't say that as paranoid i've been very everybody says it it's going to be interesting to see what happens but there's tremendous evidence right now as to how unfairly treated i was president obama and biden spied on my campaign it's never happened in history if it were the other way around the people would be in jail for 50 years right now that would be comey that would be brennan that would be all of this the two lovers strzok and paige they would be in jail now for many many years they would be in jail it would have started two years ago and they'd be there for 50 years the fact is they illegally spied on my campaign let's see what happens despite that i did more than any president in history in the first three and a half years mr president thank you thanks for talking with us thank you thank you very much
so hello everybody thank you very much let me begin by sending america's deepest sympathies to the people of lebanon where reports indicate that many many people were killed hundreds more were very badly wounded in a large explosion in beirut our prayers go out to all the victims and their families the united states stands ready to assist lebanon a very good relationship with the people of lebanon and we will be there to help it looks like a terrible attack i also want to provide the latest on tropical storm isis approximately 600 000 are without power along the east coast and utility companies are working around the clock to restore service as quickly as possible i spoke to governor cooper i spoke to governor desantis and i spoke to all of the people at fema and they're working very hard coastal areas and the storms path can expect to see the storm surge and rip currents while inland areas could see flooding and very very high winds fema is responding to states that have requested the assistance we have a list of those states we can give them to you in a little while and my administration is monitoring the situation very closely we have uh the military on guard but we have uh fema is there in all cases corps of engineer is ready if needed the army corps of engineers very talented people i urge everyone in the storm's path to remain alert and to follow the guidance of your state and local authorities i now want to update you on the path forward having to do with the china virus before i do that i want to give you some numbers which are rather spectacular that just came out the manufacturing index of the institute for supply management that's ism most of you know it by ism increased for the third month in a row rising nearly two points in july to 54.2 that was fantastic the highest reading since march of 2019 this is remarkable considering the survey was conducted throughout july and showed significant improvement despite the southwest in particular virus hot spots the ism measures and it's a very strong measure of new orders rose five points in july to 61.5 and its highest uh reading that would be since september of 2018 that's big number since the april low new orders are up over 34 points which is the largest increase in the history of the ism dating back all the way to 1948 so 34 points that's the largest since 1948. similarly the ism's measure of production is up 35 points from its april low to a reading of 62.1 which is the largest three-month gain in over 70 years at some some number these were somewhat surprising but i've been saying we're doing well and those numbers are really spectacular automobile sales likewise are a key factor in the resurgence of manufacturing since the march low of 8.8 million units with sales and all of the numbers that are going up stunningly it's 65 percent increase since then to 14.5 million units which is a a massive number the great strength and great news is really for states like in particular michigan and ohio south carolina pennsylvania very good florida a little bit these are great numbers record-setting numbers the strength in new car sales is also evident in the used-car market where soaring demand literally soaring demand is putting upward pressure on the used-car prices this is a leading indicator of the motor vehicle industry the need to restock depleted shelves will further galvanize the factory sector and we think very substantially based on the numbers we're very very happy with these numbers and i think most people are anywhere from surprise to shocked by these numbers in a very positive way economy-wide inventories crashed at a near 320 billion dollar annualized rate last quarter crash in that case means a good thing not a bad thing that's the largest drop ever on record ever homebuilder sentiment likewise is soaring as our home sale sentiment is now higher than last year in new homes recently made a 13-year high so we have a 13 year high in new home new home construction new business applications are very strong that just came out the widely followed atlanta fed gdp and that's something that they have just come out with now forecasts the new data point and incorporates it into quarterly estimates it looks like it's showing 20 annualized growth in the current quarter so 20 in the current quarter will take that all day long let's see if that's right that's a projection so we'll see if that's right the atlanta fed very respected the virus back to that we are continuing to monitor and monitor particular hot spots across the south southwest and the west and we're seeing indications that our strong mitigation efforts are working very well actually especially to protect those who are most at risk which has really been our primary focus for ever since we've gotten to understand this horrible horrible plague that's been unleashed in our country by china as of yesterday cases are declining in 70 of the jurisdictions compared to 36 percent last monday that's a big big number 11 out of 13 states with the positive rate above 10 have seen a decline in daily cases since mid-july in other states the data suggests that the need for continuing vigilance always as strong even though the numbers are getting very good states that have a test positivity rate between five and ten percent and in the states with the lowest positivity rates we also see slight increases in daily cases and a couple of them we must ensure that these states did not become new flare-ups so we're watching them very very closely fortunately thanks to substantial improvements in treatment and the knowledge we have gained about the disease itself the recent rise in cases has not been accompanied by a significant increase in deaths fatalities nationwide are that roughly half the level of the april peak so the death the number of deaths or fatalities are at half the level one is too much one death because this should have never happened to us it should have been stopped it very easily by china in wuhan thanks to our major advances in treatment we've seen vast improvements in recovery rates across all age groups compared to april mortality progressive strategy focused on protecting americans at highest risk as we race toward the development of a vaccine we must continue to take extraordinary precautions to shield the elderly and we're doing that we're doing that at a level that we've never even dreamt possible both with testing and with common sense and those with underlining conditions especially the elderly with the underlining whether it's heart or diabetes they seem to be the two most predominant conditions that cause tremendous problems while allowing those at lowest risk to carefully return to work and to school where embers flare up we must engage immediately and that's what we're doing this is the science-based approach and that's good with us working very hard on that an extended lockdown would fail to target resources at the highest risk populations while inflicting massive economic pain long-lasting damage on society and public health as a whole so there won't be lockdowns but we watch specific areas we're very careful and we're putting out embers we're putting out flames when you look at what's happening with miami and it's going the numbers are going down but florida is going down very significantly texas and california are going down rather significantly on telemedicine as we discussed the last time as and as i said numerous times during this day it's an incredible thing that's happening a central part of our effort to protect the elderly is to greatly expand access to telehealth so seniors can be treated from the safety of their homes and that's what's happening the number of medicare beneficiaries using telehealth increased from roughly 14 000 a week to nearly 1.7 million so from 14 000 to 1.7 million per week in total 10 million medicare beneficiaries of excess telehealth services since the pandemic began that's a tremendous thing that's happened with telehealth as we shelter those at high risk we are also pouring every resource at our disposal into the development of therapies and vaccines two vaccine candidates are currently in the final stage of clinical trials with several more vaccine candidates entering phase three in the coming weeks and you've read and seen what's happened today today's news was very exciting through operation warp speed we're also mass producing all of the most promising vaccine candidates and we're determined to have a vaccine very quickly we think we're going to have something very soon we have great companies these are the among the greatest companies in the world but right now they don't like me so much because i'm forcing them to drop drug prices prescription drug prices very massively some of these companies are involved in that some of them aren't we're having a tremendous you'll see a tremendous drop in price we're using favorite nations we're using the rebates we're using everything so long i've heard about how well middlemen are they call them the middlemen and uh they are very wealthy nobody even knows who they are but they're very wealthy people and we're doing the rebates we're doing purchases from other countries like canada which buys drugs for much less money than the united states is allowed to under a very bad system i don't call it archaic i call it bad because it's meant really for drug companies to get higher prices but under under the system of matching that we have if germany has a pill for 10 cents and ours is two dollars we're allowed to say we want favorite nations and we want the pill for the same the same as the lowest country in the world if they sell to one country lower than anybody else that's the price we're going to get drug companies aren't too happy about that big pharma we've also dramatically accelerated the availability of plasma therapies steroid treatments antivirals and other therapies to treat the illness today the nih we're very exciting announced that they're beginning the trial of two new antibody treatments which will take place in 40 cities across the country we're going to move move very quickly results look very good already incredible results more than 230 clinical trials for potential treatments are underway and we've secured five hundred thousand courses of treatment for rem deservier of remdessevier we're really doing a job with it and it's helping a lot of people that's why you see the fatalities and mortality numbers looking very good relatively speaking that is but that's for american hospitals through the month of september so we have room desevere at a very high level for hospitals through the month of september that's big news the united states also is far and away the most robust testing capacity in the world testing has been incredible what we've been able to do nobody's even close since march 12th we've increased daily testing by 32 000 how's that 32 000 somebody would say that must be a typo it's not a typo 32 000 we now conducted over 61 million tests nationwide averaging over 820 000 tests per day and nearly 5 million tests per week and now that we're understanding the virus we're understanding very much what we're doing with respect to who it affects who it's destroying and who gets away with it like young people very young people we'll be having some interesting statements having to do with testing and focus testing i call it focus testing by comparison mexico so we're doing numbers that are incredible but by comparison mexico as you know the president was here is a great guy but their their numbers are much different they do about 1 million tests france has done 2.9 million tests canada is around the 4 million mark australia is around the 4 million mark the united states is testing more people in a single week than in many cases uh large segments or large well-known countries all put together it's been an amazing achievement the testing and the quality of the testing also and now we're doing testing where you can have results in five minutes seven minutes and 15 minutes as opposed to waiting to come back from labs for it to come back from labs over the last several weeks hhs has opened surging testing sites in baton rouge new orleans phoenix miami jacksonville florida mcallen texas bakersfield california and this week we're opening new surge sites in houston texas atlanta to date more than 130 000 tests have been conducted at these sites last week the fda also authorized the first two tests that display an estimated quantity of antibodies present in the individual's blood which is a big deal allowing us to learn more about the immune response fema and hhs has worked with the private sector to deliver more than we have new numbers more than 200 million n95 masks 855 million surgical masks 36 million goggles and face shields 364 million gowns and coveralls and 21 billion gloves billion can you believe that billion gloves and we distribute that to the governors different states and uh they're when we get on the phone with them they're very happy that i can tell you no no complaints from any of them they're very very happy what they say to you separately maybe will change for political reasons but they are very happy with the job we've done in our national stockpile we've tripled the number of n95 masks on hand to more than 40 million triple the number of gowns to 15 million and quadruple the number of ventilators to nearly 70 000. these numbers are growing every day and we're now making thousands of ventilators many thousands of ventilators a month and we're getting them to other countries who are desperately in need of ventilators they're very hard to produce and very complicated machines so we're we're fully stocked here and we've made sure that every state is fully stocked but we're getting them to a lot of countries that need help we'll continue to work with the governors and local authorities to help them ensure significant hospital capacity protective equipment supplies and medicine i'm more confident than ever that we will get a vaccine very soon and we will defeat the virus and i want to thank you all for being here we'll take a few questions uh yeah please i wanted to ask you about kodak you had a big announcement the other day about getting kodak into the pharmaceutical business but the sec is now investigating what happened can you say a word or two whether you think that there might have been some kind of a problem uh in terms of how those arrangements were made is there any grounds for concern from your perspective no i don't know i wasn't involved in the deal the concept of the deal is good but i'll let you know we'll we'll do a little study on that we'll find out if there's if there is any problem we'll let you know about it very quickly but i wasn't involved in it it's a big deal it's a way of bringing back a great area to an addition to pharmaceuticals kodak has been a great name but obviously pretty much in a different business and so we'll see what that's all about but we'll we'll let you know very quickly yeah please um i just want to follow up before i ask a coronavirus question on lebanon you called this an attack uh are you confident that this was an attack and not an accident well it would seem like it based on the explosion i met with some of our great generals and they just seemed to feel that it was this was not a some kind of a manufacturing explosion type of event this was a seems to be according to them they would know better than i would but they seem to think it was a attack it was a bomb of some kind yes interesting um and on coronavirus you've talked a lot about when you talk about the mortality rate the deaths as a proportion of cases which i understand that is significant when you look at how deadly the virus is or how good a country does that keeping people alive who get infected but when you're talking about the scope of this virus when you look at the percentage of the population that's died there's only three countries that have more deaths than the us so how do you explain that that why the percentage of the population has died is so much higher in the us well i think actually the numbers are lower than others i'll get back to you on that but we proportionately are lower than almost all countries we're at the bottom of the list and we're uh relative to cases also we're at the bottom of the list which is a good thing being at the bottom of the list but i can get back to you we have about four or five different lists on that and we're generally speaking at the very bottom of the list so i'll get back to you when i look at the johns hopkins uh you know chronovirus resource center on their website it says the most affected countries when you look at deaths for a hundred thousand people the populations of how many people the population have died you have the uk peru chile and then the us um you know canada has eight thousand nine thousand deaths obviously they're smaller than us but that's only six percent of the population uh you know that there's six percent of our total cases so why aren't the deaths so much higher than the last of our numbers were based on the new york had a very tough time as you know new york new jersey that area and when you take them out uh just as an example take a look at florida relative to new york that's not to say anything wrong with new york it's just a very tough place people are close together it's crowded it's it's not easy but when you take that out our numbers are among the lowest and even with it in i will get back to you but we have among the lowest numbers they've done a fantastic job on it yeah yes mr president i would like to ask a question about the election but one thing on unemployment first are you considering taking executive action to extend or rather reinstate the unemployment benefits that expired last week if congress can't get a deal by the end of the week and as a general point what rate then would you want in there a percentage or flat rate we are looking at it we're also looking at various other things that i'm allowed to do under the system and such as the payroll tax suspension and so we're allowed to do things we're talking with the democrats they seem to be much more interested in solving the problems of some of the democrat-run states and cities that have suffered greatly through bad management i mean really bad management so that seems to be where they they're looking for a trillion dollars to help out with cities that are run by democrats in some cases radical left democrats that have not done a good job i appreciate today the wall street journal said very good things that we did a great job in portland by having our people go in homeland security chad wolfe and folks we went into portland and we've done a great job and they had that in an editorial that we that we really won that situation but we want the whole we we did save the courthouse the courthouse was going to be burned down or knocked down it was in tremendous danger we went in we took care of it uh and we appreciated what the wall street journal said as far as the various uh things that i may or may not sign uh i i may not have to sign i mean progress is being made as you know very well in the hill we'll see what happens but i have the right including the payroll tax suspension uh we may do some things we want to take care of the eviction problem people are being evicted very unfairly it's not their fault it's china's fault it's not their fault and people are being evicted and we can do that with an executive order so if we don't get and we want to do it relatively quickly i mean even from the standpoint of covid uh people get evicted and then they go into shelters and there are thousands of people in the shelters and this is not a time you never want to be in a shelter but this is not a time to be in a shelter with a covet they catch it they get it and it's no good so i may have to do something on evictions too because the democrats amazingly don't want to do it we offer them short-term deals and we offer them lots of alternatives but so far the only thing they really want to do is bail out states that have been poorly managed by democrats okay and if i put on the election sir can i present trump on the uh the sale of tick-tock you're basically arguing that the us government is going to collect a cut from a type of a transaction including two companies in which it doesn't hold a stake in that's unprecedented that's never happened in u.s history before and the administration has offered very little explanation about how that's going to work can you back your statement out and provide specifics about how you say that's impressive did you actually use that term i said it's unprecedented well it's almost the same thing not quite i like it i like impressive i like it impressive not quite close uh so tic tac tic toc is very successful it does tremendous business in the united states people are riveted by it i mean i have many friends when they saw that announcement they're calling i think their kids love it they don't because they don't get to see their kids anymore but they are it's it's an amazing thing whatever it may be and i told microsoft and frankly others if they want to do it if they make a deal for tick-tock whether it's the 30 percent in the united states or the whole company i say it's okay but if you do that we're really making it possible because we're letting you operate here so the united states treasury would have to benefit also not just the not just the sellers and i said inform very simple i mean we have we have all the cards because without us you can't come into the united states it's like if you're a landlord you have a tenant the tenant's business needs a rent it needs a lease and so what i said to them is whatever the price is a very big proportion of that price would have to go to the treasury of the united states and they understood that and actually they agreed with me i mean i think they agreed with me very much yeah please anybody thank you thank you so that deal may or may not happen we've given them until september 15th or so and we'll see if we can have it and if there can be great security meaning the obvious security microsoft would be a company that would be good in that respect or approved in that respect at many levels including working with the department of defense and you know they're very high level approvals so it would be good but there are other companies also yes well thank you sir have you or the anyone in the administration reached out to other companies aside from microsoft to see if they're interested we've had other companies call us microsoft called me directly and we've had other companies call i don't know where they are it sounds like microsoft is along the way of doing something uh i don't blame them it'd be you know it's a great company it's really a great company but we cannot take the security risks of any of those companies including huawei which as you know we put a halt to but we can't take the security risk i think our attitude on china has changed greatly since the china virus hit us i think it changed greatly it hit the world and it shouldn't have they should have been able to stop it so uh we feel differently i just don't know when you lose when you lose so many thousands of people and you know ultimately it'll be millions of people around the world uh it's a terrible thing that happened to the united states and europe and the entire world really a terrible thing yes please president i have two quick questions going on to fire someone on policing on the virus you said recently that there can be too much testing can you explain what the downside would be from testing too many americans to the virus and why you haven't provided a date by which all americans might have the same kind of testing that we have here at the white house well we do more testing than anybody in the world as i explained and i don't mean just a little bit if you look at india they're at about 11 million and we're at 61 million and there comes a point when you just you you want to focus your testing in a different way and we'll be announcing some what we've done is incredible with the testing not only the testing not only the number of tests but also very importantly the quality of the test and the machinery itself to do the testing nobody thought it would be possible to get a 5 minute and a 15 minute result that's a very accurate result and we do with abbott abbott laboratories has done a great job many of these companies have done an incredible job so we're looking at that very strongly and we're looking at uh doing something that if we do if we do it look right now what the testing is doing is helpful but we're spending massive amounts of money and we want to have it we want to have a channel very accurately we want to be able to help the most people we can but we are testing at a level that no country in the world and i've spoken to the leaders of the world and they'll ask me about it no country in the world thought it would be it's even believable that we're able to test so much 61 million versus you know most countries don't even test you know when they test when somebody's feeling badly if somebody's feeling badly they're symptomatic that's when they test and that's a big difference with us we go around and looking because if we find we find spots we find hot spots one problem is uh from the standpoint of uh the media we end up with far more cases than we would normally show so it's you know as i called it the other day and a statement i said it's called media gold you know for the media it's gold but the truth is it's uh we've done an incredible job in testing nobody in the world has done the job other leaders have told me the same thing they can't believe we're able to do it and and we will continue but we want to really be able to test very specifically the people that are in most danger most in need thank you mr president i wanted to ask you um first about what you tweeted out earlier today in regards to florida and your comfortableness as it relates to male and ballots for florida why does that apply to florida and it doesn't apply to male invaliding across the country so florida's got a great republican governor and it had a great republican governor it's got ron desantis rick scott two great governors and over a long period of time they've been able to get the absentee ballots done extremely professionally florida is different from other states i mean in nevada where you have a governor he said let's just send out millions of ballots and the post office cannot be prepared i haven't spoken to the post office about it but i don't know how they could possibly be prepared florida has been working on this for years and they have a very good system of mail-in and that would be absentee or even beyond absentee so in the case of florida there aren't too many people that would qualify they're so well run florida's a very well-run state low taxes low everything they've done a great job really a great job and the two governors between the both of them they've really got a great system of absentee ballots and even the even in the case of mail-in ballots the postal services are built up there you know it takes a long time when you look at the carolyn maloney election i think they and i'll give you the story i think you have to do that election over that election is no good you have to take a look in new york they have thousands of ballots they don't know what happened to them is there fraud is there it's a disaster that's only for a relatively small number of ballots but i think they have to do the election in new york over the times wrote a big story about it yesterday front page story it's a disaster it's a mess and they have to do that i think they have to do that election over nobody can know what the election result is so in the case of florida they've done a great job they've had tremendous success with it but they've been doing this over many years and they've made it really terrific so for florida you can mail in your ballots you don't have to go in maybe a couple of other states they've worked out a system but this took years to do this doesn't take weeks or months in the case of nevada they're going to be voting in a matter of weeks and you can't do that i can't imagine the post office could do it all of a sudden they're supposed to be dealing in millions of ballots but florida's done a great job and we have total confidence that if you mail in your ballot in florida it's going to matter thank you all very much thank you thank you what about in other states did you encourage voters in other states to request
are looking at this 2020 showdown presumptive democratic presidential nominee joe biden has chosen california senator kamala harris as his running mate headed into november the two appearing for the first time yesterday and immediately aimed at the president over his handling of the economy and the coronavirus pandemic joining me right now is the president of the united states donald j trump right now mr president thank you so much for calling in this morning good thank you very much good morning it's great to it's great to have you here to get a reaction to what we're seeing on the other side what is your reaction to kamala harris as joe biden's running mate well she's radical left now she tries to pretend she's not but she's the most liberal person in the u.s senate acknowledged to be she's done things that are terrible in terms of the police in terms of the second amendment in terms of everything else and she uh is a big taxer as joe is a big taxer they want to tax four trillion dollars it's going to be the biggest tax increase in history by far it will triple up records and they're big taxers it's uh just something that won't work we'll have you will see a depression likes of which you have never seen you have to go back to 1929 i guess it doesn't get too much worse than that and you'll just see that and frankly you know we've had a tremendous uh a tremendous market you and i have talked about that the stock market think of it we're almost back to where we were and we're still in the pandemic which will be going away as i say it'll be going away they scream how can you say that i said because it's going to be going away but you know we're in the middle of a pandemic and yet we're going to be hitting records i guess nasdaq already has many times like 14 times and the dow is you take a look at the numbers i see for the first time today it's actually it's actually down a few points i'm shocked almost shocked to see that but we've been going up i think we're up 9 000 points 54 since march so somebody made a lot of money and i hope those 401k people didn't do anything when it got down when it dipped because they'll be very unhappy right now but if they stayed with trump they're they're very rich so i mean this market is trading higher i guess on the anticipation that the economy is going to come back in second half or in 2021 as well as of course these rock bottom interest rates do you have confidence that we are going to see a double-digit growth number in the second half what does 2021 look like in your view from an economic standpoint mr president so i think it depends on who wins i think if he wins you're going to end up with a a disaster to be honest i see his plans the new green deal is something that the likes of which nobody can even comprehend it's it's like drawn by children it's joined by children it's so ridiculous okay you go over point over point and they're actually serious about it i used to think they were playing games it was politics i don't even think it's good politics it's so ridiculous but they're talking about no fossil fuels which means basically no energy you'd have to close down half of the businesses of the country you have to rebuild cities because uh too much light gets through the windows so let's make the windows nice and small let's rip down the empire state building and replace it with a with no windows i mean the whole thing is so preposterous it's so crazy and i guess you're talking about a hundred trillion dollars right to do it assuming you did it you know which will never happen by the way but but i will tell you as well no airplanes let's not get more than one car i'm sure the car business would love that let everyone get a car and live by it the cows you know i don't know if they actually put the cows in you know they were getting hit very hard by the animal rights groups but they don't want to have cows they don't want to have any form of animals these people are crazy okay and this is uh this is what we're getting and it's amazing the way uh sleepy joe buys into it he buys into it like oh great you know he doesn't know what he's doing and now you have a sort of a mad woman i i call her because she was so angry and so such hatred with justice kavanaugh i mean i've never seen anything like it she was the angriest of the group and they were all angry they're all radical left angry people and they're angry because i beat them they still haven't forgotten you know these are seriously ill people but if you look at if you look at you know her record is a terrible record and i'll tell you a good poll because the real paul you know we're doing very well on the polls and and you know they they love the suppression polls this is almost like a replay of four years ago and they said i was going to lose every swing state the day before he will lose every swing state it will be a very short evening right except i won every swing state every single one of them and and most of them pretty easily i mean you take a look at some of these swing states i want them easy and i got 306 remember they said the night before the election there is no way he gets to 270. yeah i didn't i got to 306. in the uh electoral college so you know i mean it's crazy these people it's partly because you focused you focused on jobs and you made campaign promises to people about bringing the economy back which is exactly what happened after the tax legislation the deregulation and your policies around energy but mr president yesterday both biden and harris took shots at you saying look 40 million people are out of work he drove this economy in the into the ground what do you want to say to them knowing that before the coronavirus we were talking about the best economy uh any of us had seen or certainly in a generation but today's numbers do not reflect that and they've got that to throw on you which is well they really don't though because nobody's buying it look we got hit by the china plague and we're not going to forget it we got hit by the china plague i built the greatest economy in history greatest job numbers greatest stock market numbers greatest economic numbers nobody's ever seen it i was i was cruising to election they weren't even going to be a factor george washington would have had a hard time winning you know that it was we were cruising you had to see the numbers and it wasn't even going to be a factor and the market was going to go through the roof because he is an overhang you know having joe biden is a big overhang even on the numbers that you put up every day that are so good there's an overhang because if he got in the numbers would go down thousands of points if he ever won the election so it's an overhang because certainly there's a chance that could happen and that's holding back that's a headwind that's holding back the market as believe it or not as good as the market's been it's up 50 since march as i guess 9 000 i think it's yeah like 9 000 points you never saw anything like it just i'm talking about the new ones going up faster you're right i'll be doing it marie i'll be doing it twice i will have rebuilt it twice but nobody blames me even even the radical left crazies out there this is the first time i've heard this attack nobody's blaming me for the fact that the the you know the the uh call it whatever you want the china virus there's you know there's 20 names for it you have your pick of names right i call it generally the china virus came out of china should have never been allowed to happen but the fact is this plague came in and i closed it up saved millions of lives now we're reopening and i don't know if you saw yesterday but i put up charts that were incredible the the you talk about a v that's like a super v and we're coming back and coming back strong and my biggest headwind is biden because everyone knows that if biden gets in this market's going to crash he's going to build regulations and his taxes he's going to tax people 4 trillion dollars 4 trillion that will destroy this economy the likes of which nobody's ever seen before four trillion dollars in taxes so uh i don't think you know the old days go ahead yep he is true in the old days when you were going to build mr president when you were a politician you talked about tax cuts you didn't talk about tax increases i've never heard of a politician that got elected we are going to increase your taxes this guy's going around and i'm not saying you know i'm not trying to i've never seen it before he got on television two days ago he says no we're going with tax on chris and i'm looking around i'm going maybe we're from a different school he is going to give not tax increases massive tax increases to pay for uh aoc's plan aoc was a poor student at i mean i won't say where she went to school it doesn't matter this is not even a smart person other than she's got a good line of stuff i mean she goes out and she she yaps these guys and they're all afraid of her because if you notice all of these progressives are beating the regular democrats you know you look at elliot engel poor elliott engel he's still going what happened what happened has anybody seen what happened what are the results he lost elliot he got wiped out that's right these people are scaring and yeah and schumer's gonna get beaten by her she's gonna run against schumer and he knows that and he's gonna get beaten by her unless he can talk her out of doing it he has no chance so you think he'll get beaten this november oh chuck schumer will be in my opinion aoc will run against chuck schumer for the senate yeah i mean i think and i think she'll win yes okay tell me about that because that's another thing that they were complaining about you yesterday saying well he's not there negotiating we want to get something done done the democrats have put on the table this three trillion dollar plan what specifically are they pushing for that is causing this breakdown in any deals nancy pelosi said that the democrats uh want to and the white house are still miles apart on on stimulus well they're right and it's their fault they want three and a half billion dollars for something that'll turn out to be fraudulent that's election money basically they want three and a half trillion billion dollars for the mail-in votes okay universal mail and ballots three and a half trips they want 25 billion billion for the post office now they need that money in order to have the post office work so it can take all of these millions and millions of ballots now in the meantime they aren't getting there by the way those are just two items but if they don't get those two items that means you can't have universal mail-in voting because they're not equipped to have it and you see how bad it's been with this carolyn maloney scam she scammed her way into an election she probably lost but they said mail-in ballots it's all mixed up patterson new jersey same thing yesterday virginia 500 000 applications for ballots got sent to everybody nobody even knows he got sent to dogs got sent to dead people nobody has no idea what happened they said oh we made a mistake i'm sorry 500 000 ballots sent in virginia how do you feel about virginia going in there and you have 500 000 phony ballot applications and this is all over there they want no no no that's the only one holding up money for the american people they want mail-in votings and and they want money for the post office this is one of the sticking points that's holding back stimulus for americans during this coronavirus running money for the post office for mail and voting that's one of them that's right how would you like to have maria how would you like to have three and a half billion dollars billion per million voting billion so if you didn't have it you wouldn't you know how much money that is nobody has any idea you know people there are three and a half billion they want 25 billion dollars for the post office because the post office is going to have to go to town to get these great ridiculous ballots in you know there's nothing wrong with getting out and voting you get out and vote they voted during world war one and world war ii and they should have voter id because the democrats scammed the system but two of the items are the post office and the three and a half billion dollars for mail-in voting now if we don't make a deal that means they don't get the money that means they can't have universal mail in voting they just can't have it so you know sort of a crazy thing how many states will be doing those are two of the items but there are many more legislature but how many states are going to be doing mail-in voting mr president a.g barr told me that this opens the floodgates of fraud how many states are you expecting mail-in voting to take place in well you have california where they're sending out tens of millions of ballots they have no idea where they're going or maybe they do maybe they'll go to everybody but republicans but they have california they have many states where you're going to have now i will say it we're challenging in court we're challenging in court so it's being challenged by at many different levels we have many lawsuits out there this will be the greatest fraud in history this will be the most fraudulent this will be almost as fraudulent as obama spying on my campaign but not quite this would be the greatest fraud in history well i'm going to get to that uh and then there's the issue around federal ids you don't even need an id in some places to actually vote you need an id for everything but they don't want people to have identification to show that you are who you say you are when you go to vote it's called voter id it's the greatest thing there is everybody knows it some states like indiana some very well-run states have it but many don't and the democrats are fighting it tooth and nail because they cheat there's only one reason to fight it they cheat if you don't cheat you want to have voter id but many people vote if you look at california we found over a million votes in los angeles over a million judicial watch did they were fantastic job they did tom fitton in that group they did a fantastic job that found over a million votes where people were over a hundred years old and they were voting they had people i think 124 years old that's ridiculous it's a terrible it's a terrible thing that's happened and the democrats don't want to fix it miss mr president let me ask you about these tariffs because you've said that tariffs will remain in place for european union products despite efforts by airbus to move into compliance with the world trade organization what is this about the europeans are giving and subsidizing airbus you are keeping the amount of products subjects to counter measures unchanged seven and a half billion dollars of goods coming from europe well we won that in a lawsuit because they cheated the european union is almost as bad as china you know everybody doesn't like it when i say that they say they're our allies well they take advantage of us tremendously on nato you know they don't pay their dues germany is delinquent for billions and billions and billions of dollars and we're supposed to protect them and they they pay a lot of money to russia for oil and gas the pipeline they pay money to russia billions and billions of dollars and then we're supposed to protect them from russia and on top of everything else they're very delinquent they're paying one percent they're supposed to pay two and the real number should be four or five so uh we get it from every different corner now you know i caught it i'm wise to it and you have a lot of stupid people out there that say oh i'm not treating germany right i'm not being nice to france and you know they take it and by the way i'm very friendly with all the people and they know they smile at me when i look at them they said nobody's ever nobody's ever talked to us like you do you know i got nato to pay 400 billion dollars more a year my biggest fan in the world is secretary general stoltenberg of nato he says i can't believe because we were going down every year for 20 years it was going down down down what they were paying for protection and i came in and it looks like a rocket ship up but still germany's not paying anywhere near what they're supposed to i use the word delinquent they're delinquent they don't pay yeah you you have also you have also changed the conversation on china sir i want to talk to you about that we've got trade talks slated to take place later this week beijing officials are saying that they plan to bring up your ban on american businesses conducting transactions with wechat and tick tock the journal is reporting this morning major corporations like apple disney walmart expressing concerns over wechat in particular mr president are you planning to narrow the ban tell us the threat around wechat and tick tock well we lose for many years 400 500 300 200 billion dollars a year billion with china dealing with china first of all before we even get into security it's been a rip-off the likes of which the world has never seen and i charge massive terrorists and they pay us hundreds they paid us you know just tens of billions of dollars in terrorists as you know they targeted our farmers that i gave them i gave our farmers all of the money that they got targeted for was which was 28 billion dollars over a three-year period so i gave the money to the farmers that's why the farmers love trump you know because i took care of them as opposed to other administrations that forget about the farmers but i took good care of them but i took it out of china now we're getting right now under the trade deal people don't know they said like schumer had no idea he was saying we don't get tariffs anymore he he didn't like tariffs don't want to charge him all of a sudden he thought it was great because so much money comes into us but then he when i made the deal i left the tariffs on which nobody still understands how did i make the deal and still leave the tariffs on and they're buying a lot of corn you know etc etc but with all of that my mindset has changed on china since they allowed the uh the plague to come in and have such a devastating effect on the world us and the world which is terrible but no i view china differently than i did it's before plague and after plague uh right now i view china differently than i did before plague so we just spoke with jimmy ly he's been on the front lines of the hong kong protest he spoke out about what he wants the u.s to to know about the communist party and he also took real issue with xi jinping being dictator for life here's jimmy ly with me just 20 minutes ago sir listen to this it's difficult for them to change you know especially when cjp is the is the president you know xi jinping is totally the motek term kind of hardcore communist he wants to bring china back to the mall time you know all the control right that he's he's is increasing is exactly the way that mao was controlling the country so mr president he's talking about xi jinping as being the problem because he's dictator for life wanting to take china back to the mao dynasty would you like to see xi jinping step down mr president look they're running their country and we're running our country and we have other countries that treat us very badly they treat us like children because we had uh foolish leadership i'm being nice when i use the word foolish but we've had very foolish leadership at the top at the presidential level and all of these countries from china to vietnam to all the asian countries and others many others have taken advantage of us we straightened it out with mexico and with canada we have the new usmca we were in the process of straightening it out with china and then the play came but even before that i had a complete deal with china and four days before it was going to be signed they broke it you know they broke the deal i had so i had to deal with them hong kong is a very complex problem because we've given tremendous amounts of money in the form of incentives to make hong kong free to make hong kong work and to our detriment so i have taken all that back all of those incentives that they had for the hong kong market in order to keep a certain amount of freedom over there knowing they have china looming over the top of them but all of those incentives billions and billions and billions of dollars i gave that we gave to hong kong i've taken back now because it's hong kong is if you use a business term it's owned by china so why should i give this to china hong kong can never succeed without those incentives and hong kong can never succeed having china as opposed to the thousands of geniuses that ran it having china run it so what does it mean for the united states in a very practical sense it means that our markets are going to make a lot more money they're going to use the new york stock exchange they're going to use nasdaq they're going to use our markets uh and the the hong kong markets will go to hell nobody's going to do business very few people are going to do business in hong kong anymore so we've taken it back and we are going to make billions and billions of dollars more because we've taken away all of these very expensive incentives we gave that to them and i fully understood it and i i still understand i was okay with it but once china got aggressive and took it over i took everything back everything's back now and it will fail but look how aggressive they are in america look at how aggressive they are in america able to get insiders at corporations whether it's harvard and the head of the chemistry department cleveland clinic houston consulate getting insiders in corporations to steal intellectual property and send it back to the ccp what happens if microsoft acquires tick tock how many tick tock employees will be working for microsoft and able to send data back to the ccp will you allow microsoft to acquire tick tock so first of all the first thing you know we have got those people and they're being prosecuted under this administration they're being prosecuted number one number two tick tock i broke the deal i said you can't do business in the united states i also said to huawei you can't do business in the united states and i told our so-called allies that are all over the world all of which you know for the most part take advantage of us we have good allies we have some very good allies but some are you know they take advantage of us because for so many years they were allowed to just absolutely rip us off but i've told them i said if you go with huawei that's okay but we're not going to be communicating having to do with intelligence because the intelligence goes right into beijing okay and we don't want that and you know we know that and we have better scientists than they do we have better engineers than they do we know exactly what happened so we explained that to europe and others and for the most part they're not buying huawei and if they do we'll have to cut off intelligence because the intelligence we can't have that go into beijing so we have there's been nobody tougher to china or to russia or to anybody else than i have despite a media that's bought out by china uh much more so than russia do you ever notice they always say russia russia russia they don't mention china china china because most of these people like you look at the nba they're bought off by china and china has you know the big pot of gold so they they say oh let's go let's use russia instead of china but china is a big problem and i've made it a much smaller problem the fact is that with hong kong we're saving a massive amounts of billions of dollars and it's not going to work it can't work it's all based on the dollar i've made the dollar stronger i made the dollar stronger to a point that there is almost no secondary currency the dollar is stronger now than it's ever been and it will be even stronger in my second term and i don't mean just from a price standpoint i'm talking about the pedigree of the dollar unless a biden gets in with his stupid taxes he wants to tax he'll tax his country into a depression like in 1929 if you do what he wants to do his plan and i've been pretty good you have to say maria at predicting things i've been pretty good including saying i was going to win the election and i'm going to win it a second time by the way because you know one of the reasons i'm going to win a second time is people have made a fortune with me and they don't want their 401ks going down by 75 80 or more and that's what's going to happen regulations and taxes he's going to regulate everything put everything back times too i cut more regulations than any president we're going to continue cutting back you talked about capital gains tax cuts you've talked about payroll tax cut you've talked about more deregulation what are the plans for the second term agenda mr president well i've done the payroll tax cut temper you know this is a temporary payroll tax cut but this is a very substantial positive jolt to the economy i'm going to do a capital gains tax cut to 15 in second term we're going to get it down to 15 set 21. we get that down to 15 percent and i'll get that done easily we're going to take the house i believe we're going to take back the house because nancy pelosi is stone cold crazy and i think we're going to take the house and that's upon uh you know i don't make a statement like that uh very easily uh but we're gonna take otherwise i'll look very bad but we're gonna take back the house we're gonna hold the presidency and we're fighting very hard in the senate i'll be honest as the senate is uh uh is uh tough we have a couple of people that aren't as supportive of trump as they should be and those people are going to lose their elections if they don't support trump they lose their elections it's a very simple element look at hagerty in tennessee he was a trump guy and he he just became or he will become very shortly the senator he won the primaries the other day you look at all of the things that have happened but the ones that don't support and i'm just talking take a look the ones that don't support and you have a few people that want to be cute and i think they're going to lose their elections and that's a problem for the senate do you believe school choice will be an issue this upcoming election given the fact that we are in this shutdown and this yeah this is a big issue for minorities in particular well the uh the unions own biden he doesn't even know it joe doesn't even know he's alive but the unions own biden they own the radical left they own pelosi and schumer and they they will do anything for the unions including destroy the future of our children and by the way the union workers i love them they're going to have to work in schools there's nothing more valuable than good teachers teachers are the whole the whole basis for everything i mean we need those teachers that's a very important thing richard trumka was on the show last week mr president and i told him that the income uh the income gap was narrowing before the coronavirus i remember reporting on this because wages were going up so much and he said absolutely not it's not true can you talk to us about what was taking place in terms of the income gap and wages before this coronavirus because i was communicating this just the other day to richard trumka and he said it's not true look uh he totally controls nancy pelosi in fact what we did the usmca he had to sign off on it for her she wouldn't do it unless he signed off and he's a good guy but he's a union guy you know he's good but he's a union guy he does what he can do but if you look at really what was happening before we were actually coming this country was coming together before china sent over the plague this country was coming together because of success somebody said what's going to bring how can the country heal i said one word success and it was happening you know that it was happening we were getting closer people were calling me that i'm talking about democrats that were calling me and talking in a way that was very different from what it had been because we had the best employment numbers we had the best employment numbers we've ever had we had the best numbers we've ever had we had the best stock market numbers we've ever had which now looks like they're going to be supplanted by what we have now if you can even believe that but we had the best success we've ever had and this country was coming together and then the plague hit us from china a gift from china and now we're rebuilding it and it's going up like a v like a rocket and you look at those numbers on automobiles all of this you've gotten so much done economic policy foreign policy naming judges and in the face of all of this resistance first you had the resistance from inside your own government you had the fbi working with the hillary clinton campaign she paid for the dossier they used it to help entrap your campaign then you had the media piling on then you had an impeachment trial with no crimes the uh articles of impeachment were abusive power and obstruction of congress then you had china throw the curve ball at you with the virus democrat mayors and governors refusing to stop crime and vandalism this is all your first term what was most surprising to you as you look toward this new election what was most difficult and most surprising for you in this last three and a half years mr president and by the way when they say abuse of power on impeachment there was a pho it was a phony fake impeachment it was a disgrace on a phone call there was an absolutely perfect phone call right i'm the only one to get impeached on a perfect phone call i like a perfect phone call and i get impeached because of the level of hatred but when they say abusive power the abuse of power is that i get everything done i'm going to have over 300 judges by the end of the first term nobody's ever seen that before i'm going to have two supreme court judges justices and we'll have literally over 300 judges including court of appeals we've done things that nobody's ever done the tax cuts the regulation cuts uh anwar look at anwar they couldn't get anwar done ronald reagan couldn't get it done bush's nobody could get it done and  and i hope they're not going to be politically correct and i hope they do what because the fact is this was president obama knew everything uh vice president biden as dumb as he may be he knew everything and everybody else knew everything maria and you know it and comey and brennan and clapper they all were terrible and they lied to congress and they put flynn they want to put flynn in jail and he didn't lie because the fbi said he didn't lie and we just found that out you know it was only muller that said he lied and they said he didn't lie and they're putting they're trying to destroy that man's life and other people that got in trouble that did nothing by comparison and not in many cases nothing or nothing in comparison they spied on my campaign which is treason they spied both before and after i won think of that using the intelligence apparatus of the united states to take down a president a legally elected president a duly elected president of the united states it's the single biggest political crime in the history of our country and i hope they're doing a job i hope they're not going to be politically correct and say well you know we want to go just get let's get the lower guys that forged the documents going into fisa let's just get a couple of the lower guys i hope they're not going to be bill barr can go down as the greatest attorney general in the history of our country or he can go down as just an average guy it depends on what's going to happen do you want to see a special counsel put in place to ensure that the american people find out what took place here we know that there was an fbi agent who actually changed documents changed evidence we know that there was lying to the court lying to the congress leaking to the media what if if you do not win in november we're not going to hear another word about this so should aj barr probably spend they'll probably cancel it definitely they'll probably cancel it out almost definitely and it's a shame it's a shame but we caught him look we caught him carter page they just used him to spy on the campaign others they used to spy in the campaign it's a disgrace and it could either be unbelievable they don't need a special counsel first of all they have a special counsel working and they have durham working so they don't need another special counsel we've had enough special counsels and frankly everybody knows if you didn't have one bit of evidence from what you already know from reading the newspapers they're all guilty as hell the insurance policy where in case she loses we've got an insurance policy we're going to go and take them out you know that that's what that meant uh with that was with strzok and paige the two lovers the two great lovers that got caught i hope everybody do you think the mueller report was the mueller investigation just a cover-up for what they had done because the mueller investigation we're getting all of the documents now where we're getting this declassification of documents and so we know oh yes they lied to the senate oh yes they lied to the fisa court all of this stuff was available when mueller was doing the investigation so how come he didn't unearth any of this was that just an opportunity to just have all of the documents frozen as a cover-up for what they did to you because they were only interested anything having to do with trump even though they knew all of this stuff strzok and page their text message were all deleted by mueller mueller went in himself and he lied to congress because he said he didn't apply for a job to head the fbi and he did and we have absolute proof of that he came in looking to run the fbi early on the following day he was given the job as the special prosecutor i call it prosecutor because it's not a council they say special counsel it's really a prosecutor so he was given the justice i want to be more accurate and with all of that that they did think of it they spent 48 million dollars plus you don't even know what they spent looked at everything they looked at my taxes i'm sure they looked at everything with all of that no collusion i have a friend who's a very sophisticated man one of the most successful people you know very well he said you have to be the most honest person in the world to escape the greatest witch hunt ever perpetrated in the history of our country to go over every document every phone call everything you've ever done and they say no collusion i did nothing wrong they said i never knew you were that honest he said you must be the most honest man in the world and so then they take it down and they send it to new york well listen we couldn't find anything let's send it into new york into the democrat lions den so they play games there for years it's a disgrace what's going on in this country we've got to stop it we've got to stop it and we're getting close but mr president we know that the f the fbi lied to the senate in february of 2008 christopher wray was running the fbi mr president is christopher wray hiding all of this stuff and protecting the fbi should he step down so christopher ray was put there we have an election coming up i wish he was more forthcoming he certainly hasn't been there are documents that they want to get and that we have said we want to get we're going to find out if he's going to give those documents but certainly he's been very very protective he was put there for good reason he was chosen by a certain person and i said go ahead put whoever you want i'm so honest that i said you could put anybody you want let's see how ray turns out he's going to either turn out one way or the other but i'll tell you bill barr all right and durham have a chance to be bill barr is a chance to be the greatest of all time but if he wants to be politically correct he'll be just another guy because he knows all the answers he knows what they have and it goes right to obama and it goes right to biden they had the meetings that was one meeting they had many meetings that's right we have it all on a timeline right here and mr president i know that we're going to be wrapping up soon but i just want to get your take on these debates there's this movement now in the media trying to get joe biden to not debate you and then you announced yesterday initiatives to help get kids back to school if you could just touch on these two topics before we wrap up here sir first off are you planning these are are we going to have a debate you invited well i want a debate i would say the only problem with the debates is we should have one debate move it forward to have an extra one i don't care three debates is fine or make it four but we should have one before the ballots start going out these phony ballots you know they go out and we should have a debate before the ballots we have a debate a month after the ballots start going out so people are voting without seeing the debate so i think they should move one debate forward or have an extra one put it but i want to do the debates and they are trying to get out of the debates there's no question about that united people that are very good at this stuff so am i i will and i will tell you they wanna they would love to get out of the debates unfortunately yes yeah well i mean look you've you have debated uh pretty aggressively in the past you've also announced yesterday initiatives to help get kids back in the classroom tell me about that this includes 125 million reusable masks go ahead i want to get the schools open they should be open the children if you look statistically it's incredible how strong they are their immune systems they're incredible we have to get our schools open we have to get our country open and a lot of the reason it's not happening is because blue state governors if you take a look at some of the democrat governors they don't want their state open because they think that hurts me on november 3rd and i think people are wise to it our country is going to be stronger than it's ever been next year we're gonna have one of the best years maybe as good as last year it's incredible what's happening when you look at the numbers on cars on on everything retail sales you look at the employment numbers we set a record we're going up despite the democrats this is like i built the wall despite the democrats now nobody wants to talk about it anymore but despite the democrats they don't talk about the wall anymore do you notice they used to talk about it now they don't because it's going to be completed very soon but despite the democrats we have a v going like nobody thought even possible they're impossible they're very difficult people i sometimes think they don't love the country but they're doing the wrong thing but in the meantime i do love your show and i think you're fantastic mr president thank you so much for the time this morning thanks for your leadership sir we'll be watching thank you sir thanks maria
eggs of minnesota to the hills of tennessee across the plains of texas from sea to shining sea from detroit down to houston and new york to l.a where there's pride in every american heart and it's time we stand and save thank you very much this is really great we love this state we won this state i don't know if you know what's going on outside but that's right lou that's as many people as you could possibly have all the way back how did you get in that's my question i know you're special friends of a group of people that have done a really good job and i want to thank you very much for being here but pennsylvania's been very important to me i went to school in pennsylvania as you know college and i love it please sit down and by the time i finish i'm gonna have a nice sunburn right here this is good where's my sunblock but i want to thank everybody in 75 days we're going to win this state we're going to win four more years they've had us under siege and we beat them and we beat them and we keep beating them but i'll tell you you've never seen anything no president should have to go through what we've gone through no president should never happen and i watched president obama last night and i watched him talking about everything and i had to put it out i said yeah but he spied in our campaign and he got caught you know that's about as bad a thing as you can imagine if that happened to another campaign on the other side it have had 25 people in jail for many years already many many years it's a disgrace but in three years and what we've done in just a short period of time there's been no administration that's accomplished what we've accomplished and that's despite pandemics and despite all of the opposition and all of the witch hunts the phony witch hunts no administration has done what we've done we've secured our borders brought back our manufacturing jobs we built our military wiped out the isis caliphate 100 killed our terrorist enemies achieved american energy independence and guess what we're just getting started that's a just a small part of it that's a that's a small part of it at stake in this election is the survi and you know this you know it and i mean it and i've never met it more at stake in this election is the survival of our nation it's true because we're dealing with crazy people on the other side they've gone totally stone cold crazy you know you look at hillary she was a lot smarter than joe but i'll tell you there was a certain sense of sanity four years ago these people have gone insane and their radical left and you look at some of the things happening in these democrat-run cities which we could solve in two minutes all they have to do is call us right our great ex-congressman all they have to do is and thank you for being here but all they have to do is call us we'll be in there in two minutes and we'll take care of the problem joe biden is a puppet of the radical left movement that seeks to destroy the american way of life they don't understand and probably when it happened they'd say what did we ever do joe biden has pledged to hike your taxes by four trillion dollars in the largest tax hike in history and they're going to waste the money on the green new deals the green new deal you know what you get out of that nothing nothing except debt and death they want to eviscerate the second amendment they want to take away your guns they want to take away your guns well you remember that just that one point alone and they want to take away your guns so who's going to vote for that i mean we want our second amendment i've held it strong and you think it was easy i've held it totally strong give free health care to illegal aliens you don't get free health care expand deadly sanctuary cities force taxpayers to subsidize late term abortion shut down the energy fields of pennsylvania they want to shut them down no fossil fuel no fossil fuel texas isn't too happy either go to texas i just left texas a little while ago two weeks i said they don't want energy they don't want guns and they don't want religion guy stands up says not going to win texas but you have the same thing because you do be you're a big fracking state you want to see your taxes go up stop fracking doesn't hurt you at all fracking they want to throw up windmills that are going to ruin your houses i mean you know put up a big windmill you walk out your door you see this big monster churning but even that they don't want to do i don't think they want to do anything i think they want to close your businesses but just remember second amendment they're going to take it away as sure as you're sitting or standing they're going to take it away from you the second amendment don't let it happen close down charter schools eliminate school choice so important to abolish the suburbs they want to put low-income housing in the suburbs so the american dream and by the way we have a lot of minority groups that live in the suburbs african-american asian-american hispanic-american all did phenomenally last year with jobs best jobs we've ever had in the history of our country best economy we've ever had  but they're a big part of the suburbs and they want to put low-income housing on the suburbs at a level that they've never done it before and it's been a very look this has been going on for 20 years i terminated the regulation that did that they said well we can change i said no let's terminate it people have to aspire to go there they want to aspire to live in the suburbs they want to abolish cash bail releasing 400 000 criminals onto our streets think of no no more cash bill look at what happened in new york cuomo ended cash bail cuomo that wasn't even de blasio that it was cuomo the governor he ended it in new york and now the crime rate has gone through the roof the speaker at biden's convention proudly declared we're talking about abolishing the police we're talking about abolishing ice and we're talking about abolishing prisons and that's the only thing they're not abolishing are taxes because your taxes are going to go up at a level that you've never even heard of before if you want a vision of your life under biden presidency think of the smoldering ruins in minneapolis the violent anarchy of portland the blood-stained sidewalks of chicago and imagine the mayhem coming to your town and every single town in america you're not going to have law and order do you notice and i shouldn't say it because i'll put it in his speech if he can read it which i doubt but they'll put it in there tonight i shouldn't say it because he's going to speak later should have a good audience people are going to find out what the hell's going on i see he hasn't answered a question since they just said i just see it on the newscast since july 17th hasn't taken a question from the fake news back there no think of it i take about 100 questions a day these people you know it's one thing i've learned the uh the people heading these other countries whether it's president xi of china putin of russia erdogan turkey any of them kim jong-un north korea remember we're going to be in war with north korea remember it's going to be a war right congressman there's going to be a war if trump said we're going to have a war no that it would have been a war if yet hillary clinton would have been a war if obama were allowed to stay any longer he thought there was going to be a well where's the war i don't see the war maybe things happen you don't know but there's been no war nobody killed you would have lost 25 30 million people they don't say that they say 100 000 people no no seoul is 32 million people and it's right next to the cannon fire and uh we have a good relationship with him i have a good relationship with him you know when i say that isn't that terrible they say no it's not terrible it's great it's great i have a relationship president obama said when i sat down that first meeting right in the white house he said it was the biggest problem we had in north korea and uh he would have had a big problem would have been a hell of a war tell you right now you'd probably be in that war right now so when i say that we got along and we've met everyone says oh that's so terrible no it's a good thing it's a good thing not a bad thing it's a good thing does it mean bad things don't happen but it's a good thing there's only one thing standing between your family and the radical left-wing mob and that's your vote this november this is a very important i feel like i'm a wall you know we built the wall on the southern border we're gonna have 300 miles by two weeks from now even less 300 miles  and by the end of the year we'll be up to almost 500 miles and then we're going to go on a little bit further some areas that are loose a little bit loose we found out i'm going to put a little bit more about 536 miles going up at a record clip that's doing phenomenally well if you want mobs and criminals you got to vote democrat look because that's what it's about it's they don't talk about law and order now i'm bringing it up now but if they haven't i haven't seen anybody get up i got just the other day endorsed by all the sheriffs of florida all the law enforcement i got endorsed i got endorsed by pennsylvania i got endorsed by texas by ohio i mean i think everybody i don't know how can you endorse somebody else how can how could law enforcement endorse somebody else we gave all of our all of our ex-army equipment you know we have tremendous surplus equipment and it was sitting in warehouses all over the united states hundreds of millions of dollars i distributed it to the police whereas biden and obama they didn't want to do that because they said no no no it makes the police look too strong i want the police to look strong you've got to look strong and a lot of it was protective equipment if you want jobs and you want a lot of police and you want a lack of crime you know if you take away new york and chicago and some of these terrible cities that you see about you know with a crime the crime is so bad i left new york four years ago and i could see because he's a terrible mayor i could see there were things that were happening that were bad he's no rudy giuliani i can tell you that but i could see things were happening but the last six months seven months it just exploded it's incredible crime up 368 percent 368 it's crazy it's crazy but if you want law and order and i can say sometimes they'll say sir say it gently people want to hear gently they want say it gently don't say law and order say if you'd like law and order and safety no i can't do that if you want law and order you gotta have law and order you can't have what's happening in portland did you see the kid get whacked the other day just whacked like he was a piece of garbage i mean who could take it we don't want that and pretty soon we're going to have to send in our people because you know we're supposed to wait till requests i don't know if they're embarrassed or what but these democrat cities they're out of control they have none look at seattle where she said no we want a summer of love i mean this woman is crazy and they would have never taken back seattle except they knew we were going in the next day that's the only reason they even did it so tonight we have slo judo will speak at the democrat convention and i'm sure that he'll just knock him dead and he'll remind us that he was born in scranton but you know he left like 70 years ago right he left a long time ago he wanted one you know i view it differently he'd say he was born here but he left that he was like eight nine or ten so he left 68 years ago he left a long time ago so i view it differently he wasn't born here he abandoned scranton okay his family had something to do with that you know his parents but he loves grant i mean he keeps talking about i was born in screen i lived in scandinavia for a few years and then he left for another state you know the state but the scranton stuff that's why i figured i'd come here and explain to you one thing but i think you people know it better than i do he left he abandoned pennsylvania he abandoned swent he was here for a short period of time and he didn't even know it and today it's amazing it goes around in a circle he still doesn't know it okay but he spent the last half century in washington selling out our country and ripping off our jobs and letting other countries steal our jobs mexico china all of them just stealing our jobs he's been there for 47 years and now he's going to come in and make a change i don't think so his son walked out with 1.5 billion dollars to manage that's millions of dollars a year and the sun didn't even have a job before that and i asked the wall street people tell me is that possible smartest people top people on wall street they say can't happen it can't happen the smartest people the people that do get money from every country from everybody they say can't happen he walked out of there in 10 minutes with 1.5 billion dollars he explained that one right and then if they want to look at him nobody looks at him nobody looks at ukraine he gets 83 000 a month and a three million dollar upfront payment because of his great expertise and energy but he had none and he even admitted no i don't know anything about energy but he goes on to an energy company gets millions of dollars 83 it's actually double that because it was him and some guy that knew less than he did and is that okay yeah is it okay when joe biden goes and says a billion dollars you're not getting it unless you get rid of those prosecutors you talk about quid pro quo right that's your quid broke row and they did quid pro quo right and they did they got rid of the prosecutors and then he's called he says now you're getting your money okay figure this how about if that's a republican doing that what happens to that republican it's over it's a disgrace but it's changing slowly too slowly as far as i'm concerned joe biden is no friend of pennsylvania he's actually for the reasons we just said he's your worst nightmare biden supported every single globalist attack on pennsylvania workers nafta china's entry into the world trade organization which built china into a power tpp korea the horrible ridiculous paris climate accord which stripped our nation of its energy and the so-called clean power plan the only good thing about it was the name it was a horrible unfair deal horrible for you and horrible for pennsylvania they want to take your power away you know what your power is your power is the billions of dollars you make on going deep into the earth and taking out what you have to take out everything you want from fracking you you don't realize how big a fracking state does anybody know how big fracking is you're not you're not going to be allowed to frack anymore it's not going to be uh no oil no nothing no oil no gas no nothing just think of that what would happen is you well first of all many of you i guess six hundred thousand six hundred and seventy thousand lose their jobs no money no oil higher taxes your stock market would crash if they get in beyond fracking if they get in you'll have your 401ks which you're setting records by the way stock market just hit a new high and don't forget we've been going through this horrible plague from china it just hit a new high so think of that it's incredible but your 401ks how many people have 401ks here good that's a lot that's a lot how about if they went down to like 10 of what they are now because that can happen that can happen and it will happen if if we're stupid and we don't go out and vote and secure your ballot absentee ballots are good but the stuff where they take millions and millions of ballots and send them all over the place we'll grab it and we'll just put them in a big pile there everyone grab it it's a disgrace even common sense tells you that look at new york look at what happened in new jersey look at what happened in virginia look at what happened i won't go through the details you know the story they have no control whatsoever in new jersey 20 percent of the ballots were defective fraudulent 20 and that's because they did a good job okay so uh this is just a way they're trying to steal the election and everybody knows that because the only way they're gonna win is by a rigged election i really believe that i saw the crowd outside for every sign we had for trump pence every single sign i never i mean you know but and that's not that atypical in texas we had people on the highways on the roadways we're driving to some oil well where we gave a speech but between it was 20 minute drive between the plane and that oil well there were tens of thousands of people and they had the signs trump and trump pence and flags american flags you know when the other side does show up which is rarely they never have an american flag i can always tell if there's a group of people they never you'd never see an american flag the fake news would tell you that but you never see but they don't put it down they'll tell you that personally but they won't write it but you never see an american flag it's an amazing thing but if you look outside today is it a hundred to one two hundred to one and then you'll read tomorrow that biden was well represented he wasn't well there were hardly anybody there every once in a while see a bite not be waving to the people i see a bite and i'd say well i waved to her anyway who cares no but was it a hundred to one i mean it's just massive and you'll read tomorrow that he had a massive crowd also pennsylvania lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs after nafta and china's entry into the wto and that was a vote and courtesy of sleepy joe biden looked american labor into the eyes it took their dues their union endorsements and their votes the unions i mean the unions have to be more reasonable they have to be more reasonable and we love the unions we love non-union we love i've had it all you know i built every building i built in new york was with unions and unions are fine you know a lot of republicans don't want me to say that but i'll tell you unions are fine tell them to keep their dues down please but they're fine and you have unions here you have non-unions but what i talk about is the worker they treated our workers horribly we lost our jobs to foreign lands our workers got fired whether they were in the unions or not then he sold out and he passed the cadillac tax you know what that is on union healthcare plans attacked their energy jobs and sent their factories to china and now he's back begging for their votes and you know people it's like a custom democrats except with me i came in i got so many union votes i get far more i mean you look at you've seen it i've a couple of people either lost their job or came very close that were unbeatable because they led a charge for the democrats for crooked hillary last time they let a charge and the the people in the union didn't want that they didn't want hillary they wanted trump and we had union revolts we call them they revolted but these guys right here are you all union people i can tell are you union it's good right it's fine that's fine look at that you get a hand certain parts of the country they wouldn't be as happy but that's okay right and it's great but they were not happy and you know what was happening they were not happy when the bosses got endorsed by the democrats american labor will vote for trump pence in 2020 they're all saying that and this area is going to be an incredible area this used to be all democrat until i came along until i came along this was democrat this was heavily union it was democrat it was everything but they like trump and i'm gonna never let you down and they will let you down they will let you down first of all the country will be let down because the country you will see a crash like you've never seen before and as good as those stock market numbers are there's a headwind the head one is that if he won the market's gonna crash the green new deal all of the different things socialized medicine that's what they want it's socialized medicine no doctor no plan obama lied about it 28 times remember he said you can keep your doctor you can keep your plan it wasn't true 28 different times they have them for the last four years we've been reversing biden's betrayals and delivering historic wins for the people of pennsylvania your state lost over 50 000 manufacturing jobs when biden was vice president in my first three years pennsylvania gained 14 000 jobs manufacturing and going up at a level that nobody's ever seen before we'll catch all of those jobs that were lost they said manufacturing jobs will never come back remember you need a magic wand where's the magic wand well we have the magic one my first week in office i withdrew from the trans-pacific partnership it would have been totally destructive to your jobs it would have been a horror show i withdrew from the one-sided paris climate accord which would have cost us so many billions of dollars and all it would have done is made the competition even tougher all over the world i believe it was designed to hurt the united states and to get jobs away from us and companies i stood up to china's rampant cheating plunder and theft i repealed that horrible tax so many taxes how many taxes did i repeal you know i'm getting a list of them now i'll have it for you for the next meeting because i'll be back to pennsylvania that i promise and i'm standing up to the special interests and the big farmer weeks ago i signed four historic directives to dramatically reduce the cost of prescription drugs think of it you know what i did i signed i signed as you know and as you've seen i guess but other countries have sometimes 10 percent of what we pay for the same exact pill same drug same prescription drug and i signed a deal that we get that's not signed by the drug companies they hate it they're taking advertising whenever you see bad ads on me from drug companies just remember one thing that means your prices are coming down that means your prices but it was it's called favored nations favored nations we were the least favorite nation in the whole world we paid the highest price so i signed if germany as an example pays 10 cents for a pill and we pay three dollars for the exact same pill we pay 10 cents also now what means is they're going to go up we're going to come way down you could we could drop drug prices by 50 60 or 70 percent at a level that has made them very angry and rebates too i ended rebates rebates go to you nobody else would have done that they could have done that a long time ago biden could have done it he didn't know what it meant but i will tell you most people do know what but they can't do it because big pharma is the most powerful group and i guess they say number one is it number one mr cup but you didn't take any money from big pharma right good i'll bet you didn't uh i'll bet you didn't my man i ended the nafta disaster and i signed usmca into law usmc is phenomenal and it's going to keep your companies from moving to mexico and other places after years of building up other nations we're finally building up our nation and we are finally doing something that i've been talking about for years we are finally putting america first and i've done that right from the beginning we're honored to be joined today by some incredible warriors that were really fantastic to me and friends of mine but they really fight these pennsylvania people are fighters in case you haven't noticed representative scott perry scott where scott thank you scott great job scott the warriors lloyd smucker lloyd thank you thank you lord john joyce john thank you great job great job and a friend of mine and a great great man he would have been here forever if he decided to but he decided maybe it was time to do something else but uh this was a fighter like no other fighter and those three other gentlemen will attest right our friend lou barletta lou and they're shouting i'm saying this with the media they're shouting lou they're not booing you know they'll say he stood up and he got booed horribly it was a horrible embarrassing no that's what they do they're fake thanks also to our congressional candidates jim bognett jim oh look at him i've heard good things jim is it easy out there on the stump oh good good and you're gonna win jim you're gonna win and lisa sheller lisa thank you very much great job i hear you two are doing really good if you have any problems call lou he'll help you let me also thank my campaign state chairwoman bernie comfort where are you thank you very much bernie thank you bernie great job you're doing how we doing in pennsylvania okay yeah i think so i think so we don't they did a lot of manipulation also a friend of mine for a long time and a great friend of his father and his maybe his grandfather i don't even i hate to say that because it makes me sound a little bit older than i feel i feel young state gop chairman lawrence tabis what a great family i miss dan tabis you know that dan tabis what a great man he was i don't know if you know him but he started out with about two cents and he ended up being a rich man and he employed a lot of people and he was a real friend of mine he didn't like many people that was long before i ran for politics he didn't like many people but he liked trump right people would go he was a rough guy people would go up to him and say hi dan how you doing he became a very successful guy and he'd look out at me and say i don't want to talk to anybody i just want to talk to trump i like that kind of a guy right but he was a fantastic man actually he's a good man before the china virus invaded our shores we built the greatest economy in history nothing even close we added 7 million jobs nationwide including 209 000 new jobs in pennsylvania by the way in the last three months we ha we right bernie over nine million jobs an all-time record this is now during and hopefully closing moments of the pandemic you notice how they at any time there's a good country they like to compare because we've done an incredible job you look at our mortality rates you look at all the things but they like to compare us to others so they they were talking about new zealand new zealand it's over it's ultra for new zealand everything's gone they're beautiful they had a massive breakout yesterday south korea it's over it's over big breakout yesterday you know it's a tough it's a tough deal we've done a great job we're a big big country and you know maybe this is popular to say maybe it's not i don't care because based on the crowd outside it looks to me like we're going to win this thing but i think by a by the way buy a lot but your governor has you in a shutdown like few what's going on what's going how did they all get out there and they were not socially distant i can tell you we'll have to on the way back they'll still be there because they're incredible people but what is he doing he's got you in a shutdown still shut down wolf he can't do this he's going to destroy your soul you know what happens is depression anxiety problems with family members drugs heart attacks obesity i mean what is he doing it's more dangerous than the virus he's got to open this state up you know when he's going to open it up no i know what he's doing because a lot of them are doing it doing it in the great state of north carolina right they're doing it in north carolina but they're doing it in a lot of different areas but they've got to open this state up and you have to do it right this this wonderful incredible right i would call it a commonwealth do you have a mind if they call it a state no call it commonwealth whatever the hell you want to open it up and what is he doing what is he doing it's very so the commonwealth of pennsylvania we're going to get it open and i know when he's going to do it you know what it is november 4th november 4th he's going to say well we're going to open it up then your results are no better than other states by the way it's not like oh gee this is great it's uh michigan has it closed down and north carolina has a close down and this uh commonwealth has a close down it's really uh it's a very sad thing to see and the results are not good the results it's not like oh this is wonderful the results in some of these places is worse than those that are open and you know you have other states up i mean if you look at the country it's really we have states we're thriving we're thriving and there's no shutdown it's enough we shut it down because we had to we didn't know anything about what was happening we shut it down we learned a lot protect our seniors etc etc you've all heard it but we learned a lot that we opened it up and now we have a big v remember they said the v will never happen we have a big beautiful v we enacted the largest financial relief package in american history and through the paycheck protection program we saved nearly 2 million pennsylvania jobs we've also delivered nearly that's right 2 million jobs we delivered nearly 11 billion dollars in direct support to pennsylvania families and over the past three months we've gained over 9 million jobs it's uh nobody can even believe the numbers and watch the numbers will get better and better because we're opening up and frankly the democrats should do it they should do what's right for the country they know they should open wolfe knows he should open he knows that and how about his uh how about his person with his with the with her mother right with her mother where the mother was protected but the other people weren't you had a massive number of deaths in nursing homes but 95 year old mother as i read and i said well that person will be gone very quickly and that person is still there i would say that's something if somebody ever wants to run for the governor of pennsylvania that would be something good to use so they took the mother out of harm's way and then moved her back when everything was okay and nobody says anything about it and there's no firing retail spending is now at an all-time high who would have believed that auto production has gained 28 percent biden would terminate this unprecedented recovery he wants to impose a permanent lockdown combined with a socialist takeover of the u.s economy did you hear him the other day lock it down he wants to lock it down so everything that we've gained over the last number of months he wants to lock it down no we're doing good florida is going down substantially arizona done a great job in arizona texas going down california's going down it opened these states up and everybody wants to practice good hygiene all of the different things do the masks i mean it's not going to hurt do them do them if you feel it do them but these things these places have to be opened up but november 4th you'll open don't worry about it but that's a long time from now if you think about it right that's a long time from now in biden's policy manifesto written with socialist bernie sanders biden pledges to quickly outlaw american oil he's going to outlaw american oil coal american call he's going to outlaw natural gas which is really an amazing form of energy it clean by mandating net zero carbon emissions from all homes and buildings within nine years and from all power plants by 2035 so he wants to basically get rid of all fossil fuels and you know i know everything about energy i know so much about energy our new forms of alternative energy just aren't powerful enough to power these massive plants and all of the things that are creating all of these jobs and all of this wealth for your state and for the country this week in california there were rolling blackouts because the radical democrats have mandated impossible restrictions on energy production and i see again the forest fires are starting starting again in california i said you got to clean your floors you got to clean your forests they have many many years of leaves and broken trees and they're like like so flammable you touch them it goes up i've been telling them this now for three years but they don't want to listen the environment the environment but they have massive fires again in california maybe we're just going to have to make them pay for it because they don't listen to us we say you got to get rid of the leaves you got to get rid of the debris you got to get rid of the fallen trees you know when a tree falls after 13 to 14 months it becomes extremely dry you look at some of these fires they don't really catch where the trees are growing because they're wet the water's pouring up the tree and they just don't want to listen they mocked us when i said that you gotta clean your floors just an expression clean the floors and they have many many years decades of of leaves dry leaves and everything that's why they have it there are other places forest cities their forests they were developed in forests and they don't have any problem with more flammable trees than you have in california but they just don't want to do it senior citizens were forced to sit in their homes with no air conditioning in the middle of the summer and biden wants to eliminate power plants all across america you had a problem over here but think of that if they do that get used to no air conditioning they probably don't want that either under my administration we ended the war on american energy and i put the miners back to work we put them back to work the miners are back to work now i approve the keystone xl and the dakota access pipelines almost right at the beginning i just approved them right at the beginning and uh a lot of jobs and it's by the way it's cleaner it's a much cleaner form of transportation america is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world think of that one to protect our great steel workers you have a couple of steady steel workers here by the way to protect our great steel workers i placed tariffs on nations that were dumping cheap foreign steel all over the place and we have created an incredible industry out of nothing it was ready to go out within months steel imports dropped by 26 and american steel production surged by 18 million tons almost immediately biden abandoned the steel industry and saved other industries that were worthless but he didn't save the steel industry we saved the seal industry you wouldn't have a steel industry right now when joe biden was vice president the border was an open pipeline for criminals gang members and cartels flooding our schools with drugs under my administration we ended the catch and release horrible catch and release you catch the criminal you take their name you say is this right we don't have identification oh that's okay it's like voting they don't want to have voter id why there's only one reason the democrats don't want voter id you have id for almost everything you have your picture everything nice but not on a vote most important thing you can do is to vote and voter id but they don't want it there's only one reason they don't want voter id and you know what that is right that's really better you guys all in favor by the way of voter id if they if they weren't they wouldn't be congressmen in good standing for uh for very long i'll tell you that we stopped asylum fraud and we deported 20 000 gang members and 423 000 criminal aliens we got him the hell out of our country but if biden is elected all of the security will quickly vanish control of the border will be seated to violent cartels and the left-wing crazies who empower them and you know used to see these massive amounts of illegals coming up from honduras right from guatemala el salvador they'd come up and it'd be just thousands of them you don't see that anymore mexico is putting sev they have right now they have for months 27 000 of their soldiers on our southern border got to do it you got to do it mexico has been really working with us very well i have to tell you the new president of mexico now he's not so new he's been there a little while but the president of mexico has done a great job as far as i'm concerned from the standpoint of our relationship and our relationship with mexico in his joint manifesto with bernie sanders biden has called for a complete suspension of deportations closing down detention facilities ending border prosecutions think of this restoring and expanding catch and release handing out free welfare to new arrivals work permits for illegal crossers and mass amnesty for all illegal aliens can you believe this no this is a bernie said this is bernie plus you know i thought bryden would be taken right this is to show you how good a negotiator is bernie took him left he's supposed to start and they're supposed to meet a little bit left of center maybe for them for us it's right or center but bernie actually took him left along with aoc plus three right aoc plus it's another beauty she's the designer of the green new deal she knows nothing about the environment she probably never studied and asked her how many hours have you taken on the environment biden wants to open your borders in the middle of the pandemic thank goodness we have that 300 miles of wall because you would have had a problem like you never would have seen before i want strong borders and i want safe communities if we don't have borders i was saying this from day one if we don't have borders we don't have a country i imposed a travel ban on jihadist regions to keep terrorists out of our country and it worked and it got approved and the press said he failed and they were right the lower court failed your appeals court failed and i wanted the supreme court so they still say it failed because i lost it the first two courts that's how dishonest they are they say he lost because i lost in the first two courts but we won at the supreme court they forget to mention that fact joe biden has pledged to remove this ban opening the floodgates to terror and terror hot spots and increasing the number of refugees allowed into our country by 700 that's the manifesto of aoc and bernie joe biden and kamala she's another beauty also strongly support the deadly sanctuary cities that have been so bad for you and everybody else as district attorney in san francisco kamala put a drug-dealing illegal alien into a job and jobs program instead of into prison four months later the illegal alien robbed a 29 year old woman mowed her down with an suv fracturing her skull and ruining her life we believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding americans not for criminal aliens after eight long years joe biden and barack obama left america weak disrespected and endangered we are respected again we are a respected country again they said that one of the leaders called up top top leader of one of the countries he asked me to call president erdogan of turkey who i get along with very well he said sir please would you do me a favor call her to one i said why can't you do it he says you're the only one he respects you're the only person he respects i tell you this story i like telling very personal stories but they did say that you're the only one he'll listen to i said is that because of the united states they said no it's because of you so you know that's not so bad i might as well i might as well tell you the stories because they won't we've invested more than two trillion dollars to rebuild our military our military's in the best shape it's ever been and everything everything is made in the usa and we've revived the historic shipyard in a place called philadelphia with hundreds and hundreds of new jobs you know that and we've just launched space force i never talked about it the campaign trail lou right i never talked about i'm the only one probably that ever ran for office in this country that's achieved more than i said i would i never talked about space force i never talked about it but i realized how important it was that we got it the sixth branch think of that six brands that's a big deal american rockets are once again sending american astronauts into space we renewed nasa it was a field of weeds the field of weeds president obama closed it down we're now sending rockets up and a lot of those rockets are paid by rich people they like sending up rockets for whatever reason they like it i say go ahead you can use pay us a little rent and you can use that properly we withdrew from the disastrous iran nuclear deal a horror show the isis caliphate was destroyed the founder and leader of isis the animal known as al-baghdadi is dead the world's number one terrorist kasim sulaimani is dead joe biden voted for the war in iraq i kept us out of new wars everyone said oh trump is his personnel he'll be in a war's first week instead of that i got you out of wars we're down to a minimum number in iraq afghanistan will be down very shortly to 4 000 troops and that'll come back shortly too syria we took them all out other than were we kept the oil if that's okay with you we kept the oil we have some back and keeping the oil we should have kept the oil in iraq too remember i used to say keep the oil don't go in i'd say don't go into iraq but i was a civilian nobody cared i was like you so nobody cares i want to get that mosquito out of you they'll say it's cruelty to animals i don't know it's true they they have they were saying the other night the shark they were saying no sharks we have to protect them i said wait a minute wait they actually want to remove all the seals in order to save the shark they say wait don't you have it the other way around that's true i'm not a big fan of sharks either i don't know how many votes am i going to lose i have people calling me up sir we want to do we have a fund to save the shark it's called safe the shark i say no thank you i have other things i can contribute to i recognize israel's true capital opened the american embassy in jerusalem and recognized israel and its sovereignty over the golan heights nobody else they talked about it for years for years and years many many presidents talked about the capital of israel jerusalem and they never did it i did it in golan heights 52 years they've been meeting on golan heights i did it last week we reached a historic breakthrough in the middle east finalizing a groundbreaking agreement between israel and the united arab emirates people can't even believe it even the new york times gave us a great editorial they can't even believe it we pass veterans choice and veterans accountability for our great vets nobody's done for the vets what i have nobody not even close we love the vets and federal workers who failed and mistreated our veterans now can be told you're fired that's accountability we couldn't fire them we had sadists we had thieves we had some bad people they let go of 9 000 people in the va they were bad people they didn't love our vets now they have to love our vets in a second term in office we will create 10 million jobs in the next year we will hire more police we will ban sanctuary cities we will appoint prosecutors judges and justices who believe in the rule of law not the rule of that horrible mob that you get to watch on television we will provide school choice in every home we're gonna we're gonna let you have school choice that's a very important thing the democrats don't want anything to do with school choice we will lower the price of prescription drugs as i said we will build and expand our energy infrastructure to a level that is even greater than what we have right now and when i said before we're number one we're number one by a lot nobody thought would ever be number one and we are energy independent which is very nice and as we've been doing we will end our reliance on china and other countries for drugs and other things we will make our critical drugs medicines and supplies here in the united states we will give tax credits to companies to bring jobs back to america and if they don't do it we'll put tariffs on those companies and they'll have to pay us a lot of money so what are they going to do they're going to bring the jobs back in every action every moment and every decision i'm fighting for you i'm fighting for pennsylvania a lot of people got rich and got powerful at your expense now these same liberal hypocrites want to open up orders and let violent mobs rule the streets while they live in waldorf compounds and communities they wanted to fund police while hiring private security they want to let rioters burn churches while jailing you for praying in your church they want to abolish school choice while sending their children to the best private schools in the land they want to cancel you totally cancel you take your job turn your family against you for speaking your mind while they indoctrinate your children with twisted twisted world views that nobody ever thought possible you notice they're not knocking down statues and monuments anymore because when i saw what was happening i took an old law and i signed a nice new executive order and then i explained 10 years if you knocked down a statue federal statute or monument and they were all set to march and washington were going to knock down some nice statues and then they said you know what let's not march the march ended very quickly there was no more marching they said you know 10 years that's a long time it's a long time to knock over a statue that many people love and many people don't and there's a way of getting it down you do it through a legal process it'll go quickly if it's right joe biden is the candidate of these privileged liberal hypocrites who hold you and your values in disdain but you can send them all a thundering message on election day by voting for trump pence do we love our vice president do we love our vice president i'll tell you i watched kamala last night and i said i'll take mike i'll take mike by a lot he's been a great vice president actually pennsylvania is the state that gave us the declaration of independence valley forge gettysburg and generations of american patriots just like you you're patriots you love this country that's why you're here you're sitting in this boiling crazy hot sun but you're smarter than me because with you it's on the back of your head with me i'm gonna go home and my wife is going to say what happened you look like a lobster look at the sun this is great i want to look like lou nice and dark right but with lou it's a little easier i think this is the state where workers got their hands dirty mining the call and forging the steel that raised up the mightiest nation in the history of the world and we're going to be stronger than ever before remember that we are already we are going to be stronger than ever before and that's happening right now proud citizens like you helped build this country and and you know this look together we're taking back our country but i was just thinking as i said stronger they want to come in and raise your taxes they want to come in and put regulations on all of your factories and all of your jobs and all of your personal things you know little things and they laugh at it when i say it the light bulb those new expensive light bulbs i said what happened to the old ones they're better they said they were mandated out i said why nobody could explain why i said we're letting them back the light bulbs are back dishwashers they have dishwashers they don't give you any water they give you not enough water so they're lousy so what do people do they press the button again and again no water i let them have lots of water just got back from whirlpool in ohio they're thriving now because of what i did to competition from other countries i tariffed him and whirlpool now went from a company that was just about over to a company that's thriving sink faucets shower faucets i won't say the third element of the bathroom because they always just bring that up so i won't say that but you know what i'm talking about they don't allow water you go into a new hotel you turn on the water there's no water i opened it up i said they could have as much water i mean does pennsylvania have a problem with water no yeah you have a problem with water you have too much of it right you have too much water you got to get rid of it so why are we having restrictors they have restrictors on so i took it off these are little things i tell you about them a lot of people appreciate it a lot of people don't know about it but now you can go out buy a light bulb for a tiny fraction of the course that's better won't last as long but it's better it's better light makes me look much better that's a very important it's a very important thing but you can buy now faucets where water actually comes out and so instead of having it like on for many times longer and actually when i take a shower i can have water hit my hair instead of drop drop it's hard enough my hair without that so now we can actually have water pouring out of our shower heads okay so a lot of good things we've done a lot of things that nobody talks about nobody writes about but it's about quality of life and i think the people really appreciate it i really do not so easy to do not so easy to do i don't think anybody else could have done it nobody else would have thought to do things like that but nobody else would have would have done it we're returning power to you the american people from scranton to easton how's ernie doing good huh how good is ernie right yeah is he great ernie holmes he was heavyweight heavyweight champ right the chair larry larry sorry about that i know another one named ernie holmes larry holmes is he still in the area of uh how good was larry right that was probably muhammad ali's uh most dangerous fight it was i've never seen anything like it mohammed would never go down but larry holmes was a great champion and i know he loved easton he used to tell me that i want to invest my money in he said i don't know if that was a good thing or a bad thing i hope he's doing well but he was one hell of a fighter from scranton to easton to allentown we're going to fight for every job every family every neighborhood and every vote together we'll unite citizens of every race color religion and creed as one people one family one glorious nation under god that's another word they don't want you to say god you know that right did you see they were doing something last night that was extremely basic and always has had the word god and they decided to take the word god out but this is where they're coming from they're coming to get you this is where they're coming from and me we with a wall between the american dream and total insanity and the destruction of the greatest country in the history of the world we're all that stands we're all that stands and a typical republican probably wouldn't get there but i think i'm you know very republican in many ways but your typical republican would not be able to win like your area this has always been a democrat area and yet the votes for trump here are through the roof you know how successful we were four years ago incredible it's a great area these are great people they're great hard-working incredible people and we love them with your drive and devotion we will win a historic victory on november 3rd and we will make america greater than it's ever been before i just want to thank the people of scranton the the lack of home okay the lack of home for joe biden remember the next thing we're going to stop them from saying these things but you look at he's going to make a speech tonight it's going to be very interesting to see how he does and i hope he does well i'll be honest i do i hope he does well i really hope he does well but i also want him to tell the truth he's got to tell the truth about things and he's going to do a lot better if he does but hopefully not well enough right now we are leading a war that's incredible but right now we're leading in so many polls that they refuse to put out we're doing so good in this state in north carolina in florida in texas in ohio in michigan you know how many car plants are being built or expanded in michigan we're doing fantastically in michigan we're doing great in new hampshire these are real polls these aren't suppression polls these aren't polls where they do registered voters register no you want to do voters that are going to vote registered voters you want to do what's called likely voters likely in other words people that are likely to vote not registered voters many of whom have died many of whom aren't going to vote and then you want to do an even count you don't want to do many more democrats they do a poll many right many many democrats few few republicans trump is down by six and then you look and you say well that poll is true we're up by 10. so we're going to see you're going to see they did it last time they had me losing every swing set i think he had to be losing like nine states that i won but he's going to lose right you were the first one that told me lou he's going to lose seven swing states he's going to lose them all he's down by 14 washington post abc they had me down one week before the election 12 to 14 points the day of the election because we complained that it was a fake poll so they changed it the day of the election and they had us just about even remember that whole big deal we said you can't say we're done because that's called suppression then you say hey i love trump but i can't vote for him because i don't have the time because he's not going to win but if you would have gone out and voted we would have won the problem was last time for them 2016 everybody went out and voted there was no suppression there was incredible exhilaration except except on the other side that they would not you ever see those pictures of the craziness going on but the polls were fake just like their stories are fake just like the news is fake the polls are even worse and we're now actually doing work as one of the most accurate polls was rasmussen and rasmussen came out today did you see it 51 for trump 51.  i think they were one of the three most accurate polls and the ones that are telling the truth sometimes i mean they have a poll that came out recently that was very favorable they refused to release it they didn't want the people to see it what kind of stuff is this that's why you're going to do a great job right you're going to make sure this stuff doesn't happen but we're going to make sure too so we're going to win this and i think we're going to win it really big when you see those people outside and i mean you can take this crowd or multiply at times it looks like a hundred right you can multiply it times 100 but when you see this crowd and when you see the kind of enthusiasm there's nothing like it we're leading by the way even they admit we're leading by enthusiasm by numbers like they've never seen before record numbers meaning we have record enthusiasm and he has a record lack of enthusiasm and that is a big big factor so i just want to thank all of the people from this incredible place i mean it's just a a great great great place i've been here for so long and so much and i love it i love the people we're gonna have the biggest victory we're gonna have a victory that will equal or surpass what we did in 2016. thank you all very much thank you very much  cause you're in a new town there's  and i'm sure you will find many ways to have a good time  it's fun to stay at the mca it's fun to stay at the fire  enjoy
 friends delegates and distinguished guests please i stand before you tonight honored by your support proud of the extraordinary progress we have made together over the last four incredible years and brimming with confidence in the bright future we will build for america over the next four years we begin this evening our thoughts are with the wonderful people who have just come through the wrath of hurricane laura we are working closely with state and local officials in texas louisiana arkansas mississippi sparing no effort to save lives while the hurricane was fierce one of the strongest to make landfall in 150 years the casualties and damage were far less than thought possible only 24 hours ago and this is due to the great work of fema law enforcement and the individual states i will be going this weekend and congratulations thank you for that great job out there we really appreciate it we are one national family and we will always protect love and care for each other here tonight are the people who have made my journey possible and filled my life with so much joy for her incredible service to our nation and its children i want to thank our magnificent first lady i also want to thank my amazing daughter ivanka for that introduction and to all of my children ivanka please stand up thank you and to all of my children and grandchildren i love you more than words can express i know my brother robert is looking down on us right now from heaven he was a great brother and was very proud of the job we are all doing thank you we love you robert let us also take a moment to show our profound appreciation for a man who has always fought by our side and stood up for our values a man of deep faith and steadfast conviction our vice president mike pence and mike is joined by his beloved wife a teacher and military mom karen pence thank you karen my fellow americans tonight with a heart full of gratitude and boundless optimism i profoundly accept this nomination for president of the united states the republican party the party of abraham lincoln goes forward united determined and ready to welcome millions of democrats independents and anyone who believes in the greatness of america and the righteous heart of the american people in a new term as president we will again build the greatest economy in history quickly returning to full employment soaring incomes and record prosperity we will defend america against all threats and protect america against all dangers we will lead america into new frontiers of ambition and discovery and we will reach for new heights of national achievement we will rekindle new faith in our values new pride in our history and a new spirit of unity that can only be realized through love for our great country because we understand that america is not a land cloaked in darkness america is the torch that enlightens the entire world gathered here at our beautiful and majestic white house known all over the world as the people's house we cannot help but marvel at the miracle that is our great american story this has been the home of larger than life figures like teddy roosevelt and andrew jackson who rallied americans to bold visions of a bigger and brighter future within these walls lived tenacious generals like president grant and eisenhower who led our soldiers in the cause of freedom from these grounds thomas jefferson sent lewis and clark on a daring expedition to cross a wild and uncharted continent in the depths of a bloody civil war president abraham lincoln looked out these very windows upon a half-completed washington monument and ask god in his providence to save our nation two weeks after pearl harbor franklin delano roosevelt welcomed winston churchill just inside they set our people on a course to victory in the second world war in recent months our nation and the entire planet has been struck by a new and powerful invisible enemy like those brave americans before us we are meeting this challenge we are delivering life-saving therapies and will produce a vaccine before the end of the year or maybe even sooner we will defeat the virus end the pandemic and emerge stronger than ever before what united generations past was an unshakable confidence in america's destiny and an unbreakable faith in the american people they knew that our country is blessed by god and has a special purpose in this world it is that conviction that inspired the formation of our union our westward expansion the abolition of slavery the passage of civil rights the space program and the overthrow of fascism tyranny and communism this towering american spirit has prevailed over every challenge and lifted us to the summit of human endeavor and yet despite all of our greatness as a nation everything we have achieved is now in danger this is the most important election in the history of our country thank you at no time before have voters faced a clearer choice between two parties two visions two philosophies or two agendas this election will decide whether we save the american dream or whether we allow a socialist agenda to demolish our cherished destiny it will decide whether we rapidly create millions of high-paying jobs or whether we crush our industries and send millions of these jobs overseas as has foolishly been done for many decades your vote will decide whether we protect law abiding americans or whether we give free rein to violent anarchists and agitators and criminals who threaten our citizens and this election will decide whether we will defend the american way of life or whether we will allow a radical movement to completely dismantle and destroy it that won't happen at the democrat national convention joe biden and his party repeatedly assailed america as a land of racial economic and social injustice so tonight i ask you a simple question how can the democrat party ask to lead our country when it spends so much time tearing down our country in the left's backward view they do not see america as the most free just and exceptional nation on earth instead they see a wicked nation that must be punished for its sins our opponents say that redemption for you can only come from giving power to them this is a tired anthem spoken by every repressive movement throughout history but in this country we don't look to career politicians for salvation in america we don't turn to government to restore our souls we put our faith in almighty god joe biden is not a savior of america's soul he is the destroyer of america's jobs and have given the chance he will be the destroyer of american greatness for 47 years joe biden took the donations of blue-collar workers gave them hugs and even kisses  and told them he felt their pain and then he flew back to washington and voted to ship our jobs to china and many other distant lands joe biden spent his entire career outsourcing their dreams and the dreams of american workers offshoring their jobs opening their borders and sending their sons and daughters to fight in endless foreign wars wars that never ended four years ago i ran for president because i could not watch this betrayal of our country any longer i could not sit by as career politicians let other countries take advantage of us on trade borders foreign policy and national defense our nato partners as an example were very far behind in their defense payments but at my strong urging they agreed to pay 130 billion dollars more a year the first time in over 20 years that they upped their payments and this 130 billion dollars will ultimately go to 400 billion dollars a year and secretary general stoltenberg who heads nato was amazed after watching for so many years and said that president trump did what no one else was able to do thank you from the moment i left my former life behind and it was a good life i have done nothing but fight for you i did what our political establishment never expected and could never forgive breaking the cardinal rule of washington politics i kept my promise together we have ended the rule of the failed political class and they are desperate to get their power back by any means necessary you've seen that they are angry at me because instead of putting them first i very simply said america first thank you days after taking office we shocked the washington establishment and withdrew from the last administration's job-killing trans-pacific partnership i then immediately approved the keystone xl and dakota access pipelines ended the unfair and very costly paris climate accord and secured for the first time american energy independence we passed record-setting tax and regulation cuts at a rate nobody had ever seen before within three short years we built the strongest economy in the history of the world washington insiders asked me not to stand up to china they pleaded with me to let china continue stealing our jobs ripping us off and robbing our country blind but i kept my word to the american people we took the toughest boldest strongest and hardest hitting action against china in american history by far they said that it would be impossible to terminate and replace nafta but again they were wrong earlier this year i ended the nafta nightmare and signed the brand new u.s mexico canada agreement into law and right now auto companies and others are building their plants and factories in america not firing their employees and not deserting us for other countries in perhaps no area did the washington special interests try harder to stop us than on my policy of pro-american immigration but i refuse to back down and today america's borders are more secure than ever before thank you we ended catch and release stopped asylum fraud took down human traffickers who prey on women and children and we have deported twenty thousand gang members and five hundred thousand criminal aliens we have already built 300 miles of border wall and we are adding 10 new miles every single week the war will soon be complete and it is working beyond our wildest expectations we are joined this evening by members of the border patrol union representing our country's courageous border agents thank you very much for being here thank you brave brave people you see this country loves our law enforcement they do thank you they really do love and respect i learned that the tennessee valley authority laid off hundreds of american workers and forced them to train their lower paid foreign replacement i promptly removed the chairman of the board and now those talented american workers have been rehired and are back providing power to georgia alabama tennessee kentucky mississippi north carolina and virginia they have their old jobs back and some are here with us this evening please stand you went through a lot please stand thank you thank you very much you've been through a lot thank you very much last month i took on big pharma you think that's easy it's not and signed orders that will massively lower the cost of your prescription drugs and give critically ill patients access to life-saving cures we passed the decades long awaited right to try right to try we also passed va accountability and va choice our great veterans for taking care of our veterans 91 percent approval rating this month the va given by our veterans first time anything like that's ever happened by the end of my first term we will have approved more than 300 federal judges including two great new supreme court justices and to bring prosperity to our forgotten inner cities we worked hard to pass historic criminal justice reform prison reform opportunity zones and long-term funding of historically black colleges and universities and before the china virus came in produced the best unemployment numbers for african americans hispanic americans and asian americans ever recorded and i say very modestly that i have done more for the african-american community than any president since abraham lincoln our first republican president and i have done more in three years for the black community than joe biden has done in 47 years and when i'm reelected the best is yet to come oh oh thank you very much  when i took office the middle east was in total chaos isis was rampaging iran was on the rise and the war in afghanistan had no end in sight i withdrew from the terrible one-sided iran nuclear deal unlike many presidents before me i kept my promise recognized israel's true capital and moved our embassy to jerusalem but not only did we talk about it as a future site we got it built rather than spending one billion dollars on a new building as planned we took an already owned existing building in a better location real estate deal right and opened it at a cost of less than five hundred thousand dollars many things like that that government is doing right now we also recognized israeli sovereignty over the golan heights and this month we achieved the first middle east peace deal in 25 years thank you to uae thank you to israel in addition we obliterated 100 of the isis caliphate and killed its founder and leader abu bakar  al-baghdadi then in a separate operation we eliminated the world's number one terrorist by far kasim solomini unlike previous administrations i have kept america out of new wars and our troops are coming home we have spent nearly 2.5 trillion dollars on completely rebuilding our military which was very badly depleted when i took office as you know this includes three separate pay raises for our great warriors we also launched the space force the first new branch of the united states military since the air force was created almost 75 years ago we have spent the last four years reversing the damage joe biden inflicted over the last 47 years biden's record is a shameful roll call of the most catastrophic betrayals and blunders in our lifetime he has spent his entire career on the wrong side of history biden voted for the nafta disaster the single worst trade deal ever enacted he supported china's entry into the world trade organization one of the greatest economic disasters of all time after those biden calamities the united states lost one in four manufacturing jobs we laid off workers in michigan ohio new hampshire pennsylvania and many other states they didn't want to hear biden's hollow words of empathy they wanted their jobs back as vice president he supported the trans-pacific partnership which would have been a death sentence for the u.s auto industry he backed the horrendous south korea trade deal which took many jobs from our country and which i've reversed and made a great deal for our country he repeatedly supported mass amnesty for illegal immigrants he voted for the iraq war he opposed the mission to take out osama bin laden he opposed killing solomani he oversaw the rise of isis and cheered the rise of china as a positive development for america and the world some positive development that's why china supports joe biden and desperately wants him to win i can tell you that upon very good information china would own our country if joe biden got elected unlike biden i will hold them fully accountable for the tragedy that they caused all over the world they caused in recent months our nation and the world has been hit by the once in a century pandemic that china allowed to spread around the globe they could have stopped it but they allowed it to come out we are grateful to be joined tonight by several of our incredible nurses and first responders please stand and accept our profound thanks and gratitude many americans including me have sadly lost friends and cherished loved ones to this horrible disease as one nation we mourn we grieve and we hold in our hearts forever the memories of all of those lives that have been so tragically taken so unnecessary in their honor we will unite in their memory we will overcome and when the china virus hit we launched the largest national mobilization since world war ii invoking the defense production act we produce the world's largest supply of ventilators not a single american who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator which is a miracle good job heading the task force by our great vice president thank you very much mark please please stand back we shipped hundreds of millions of masked gloves and gowns to our front line healthcare workers to protect our nation's seniors we rush supplies testing kits and personal to nursing homes we gave everything you can possibly give and we're still giving it because we're taking care of our senior citizens the army corps of engineers built field hospitals and the navy deployed our great hospital ships we developed from scratch the largest and most advanced testing system anywhere in the world america has tested more than every country in europe put together and more than every nation in the western hemisphere combined think of that we have conducted 40 million more tests than the next closest nation which is india we developed a wide array of effective treatments including a powerful antibody treatment known as convalescent plasma you saw that on sunday night when we announced it that will save thousands and thousands of lives thanks to advances we have pioneered the fatality rate and you look at it and you look at the numbers it has been reduced by 80 percent since april 80 the united states has among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country anywhere in the world the european union's case fatality rate is nearly three times higher than ours but you don't hear that they don't write about that they don't want to write about that they don't want you to know those things all together the nations of europe have experienced a 30 percent greater increase in excess mortality than the united states think of that we enacted the largest package of financial relief in american history thanks to our paycheck protection program we have saved or supported more than 50 million american jobs that's one of the reasons that we're advancing so rapidly with our economy great job as a result we have seen the smallest economic contraction of any major western nation and we are recovering at a much faster rate than anybody over the past three months we have gained over nine million jobs and that's a record in the history of our country unfortunately from the beginning our opponents have shown themselves capable of nothing but a partisan ability to criticize when i took bold action to issue a travel ban on china very early indeed joe biden called it hysterical and xenophobic and then i introduced a ban on europe very early again if we had listened to joe hundreds of thousands more americans would have died instead of following the science joe biden wants to inflict a painful shutdown on the entire country his shutdown would inflict unthinkable and lasting harm on our nation's children families and citizens of all backgrounds the cost of the biden shutdown would be measured in increased drug overdoses depression alcohol addiction suicides heart attacks economic devastation job loss and much more joe biden's plan is not a solution to the virus but rather it's a surrender to the virus my administration has a very different approach to save as many lives as possible we are focusing on the science the facts and the data we are aggressively sheltering those at highest risk especially the elderly while allowing lower risk americans to safely return to work and to school and we want to see so many of those great states be open by democrats we want them to be open they have to be open they have to get back to work they have to get back to work and they have to get back to school most importantly we are marshaling america's scientific genius to produce a vaccine in record time under operation warp speed we have three different vaccines in the final stage of trials right now years ahead of what has been achieved before nobody thought it could ever be done this fast normally it would be years that we did it in a matter of a few months we're producing them in advance so that hundreds of millions of doses will be quickly available we will have a safe and effective vaccine this year and together we will crush the virus at the democrat convention you barely heard a word about their agenda but that's not because they don't have one it's because their agenda is the most extreme set of proposals ever put forward by a major party nominee joe biden may claim he is an ally of the light but when it comes to his agenda biden wants to keep us completely in the dark he doesn't have a clue he has pledged a four trillion dollar tax hike on almost all american families which will totally collapse our rapidly improving economy and once again record stock markets that we have right now will also collapse that means your 401ks that means all of the stocks that you have on the other hand just as i did in my first term i will cut taxes even further for hard-working moms and dads i will not raise taxes i will cut them and very substantially and we will also provide tax credits to bring jobs out of china back to america and we will impose tariffs on any company that leaves america to produce jobs overseas we will make sure our companies and jobs stay in our country as i've already been doing for quite some time if you've noticed joe biden's agenda is made in china my agenda is made in the usa biden is promised to abolish the production of american oil coal shale and natural gas laying waste to the economies of pennsylvania ohio texas north dakota oklahoma colorado and new mexico destroying those states absolutely destroying those states and others millions of jobs will be lost and energy prices will soar these same policies led to crippling power outages in california just last week everybody saw that tremendous power outage nobody's seen anything like it but we saw that last week in california how can joe biden claim to be an ally of the light when his own party can't even keep the lights on joe biden's campaign has even published a 110-page policy platform you can't get away from this co-authored with far left senator crazy bernie sanders the biden bernie manifesto calls for suspending all removals of illegal aliens implementing nationwide catch and release and providing illegal aliens with free taxpayer-funded lawyers everybody gets a lawyer come on over to our country everybody has a lawyer we have a lawyer for you that's what we need is more lawyers joe biden recently raised his hand on the debate stage and promised to your giveaway he was going to give it away your healthcare dollars to illegal immigrants which is going to bring massive numbers of immigrants into our country massive numbers will pour into our country in order to get all of the goodies that they want to give education health care everything he also supports deadly sanctuary cities that protect criminal aliens he promised to end national security travel bans from jihadist nations and he pledged to increase refugee admissions by 700 percent this is in the manifesto the biden plan would eliminate america's borders in the middle of a global pandemic and he's even talking about taking the wall down how about that biden also vowed to oppose school choice and close all charter schools ripping away the ladder of opportunity for black and hispanic children in a second term i will expand charter schools and provide school choice to every family in america and we will always treat our teachers with the tremendous respect that they deserve great people great great people joe biden claims he has empathy for the vulnerable yet the party he leads supports the extreme late-term abortion of defenseless babies right up until the moment of birth democrat leaders talk about moral decency but they have no problem with stopping a baby's beating heart in the ninth month of pregnancy democrat politicians refuse to protect innocent life and then they lecture us about morality and saving america's soul tonight we proudly declare that all children born and unborn have a god-given right to life during the democrat convention the words under god were removed from the pledge of allegiance not once but twice we will never do that but the fact is this is where they're coming from like it or not this is where they're coming from if the left gains power they will demolish the suburbs confiscate your guns and appoint justices who will wipe away your second amendment and other constitutional freedoms biden is a trojan horse for socialism if joe biden doesn't have the strength to stand up to wild-eyed marxists like bernie sanders and his fellow radicals and there are many there are many many we see him all the time it's incredible actually then how is he ever going to stand up for you he's not the most dangerous aspect of the biden platform is the attack on public safety the biden bernie manifesto calls for abolishing cash bail immediately releasing 400 000 criminals onto the streets and into your neighborhoods when asked if he supports cutting police funding joe biden replied yes absolutely when congresswoman ilhan omar called the minneapolis police department a cancer that is rotten to the root biden wouldn't disavow her support and reject her endorsement he proudly displayed it shortly later on his website displayed it in big letters make no mistake if you give power to joe biden the radical left will defund police departments all across america they will pass federal legislation to reduce law enforcement nationwide they will make every city look like democrat run portland oregon no one will be safe in biden's america my administration will always stand with the men and women of law enforcement every day police officers risk their lives to keep us safe and every year many sacrificed their lives in the line of duty one of these incredible americans was detective miostas familia she was part of a team of american heroes called the nypd or new york's finest was very very proud to get their endorsement just the other day great people great great people they were allowed to do their job you'd have no crime in new york rudy giuliani knows that better than anybody thank you rudy three years ago in the fourth of july weekend detective familia was on duty in her vehicle when she was ambushed just after midnight and murdered by a monster who hated her purely for wearing the badge detective familia was a single mom she recently asked for the night shift so she could spend more time with her kids two years ago i stood in front of the u.s capitol alongside those beautiful children and held their grandmother's hand as they mourned their terrible loss and we honored detective familia's extraordinary life it was extraordinary detective familia's three children are with us this evening genesis peter delilah we are so grateful to have you here tonight thank you very much for coming thank you very much thank you very much i promise you that we will treasure your mom in our memories forever we must remember that the overwhelming majority of police officers in this country and that's the overwhelming majority our noble courageous and honorable we have to give law enforcement our police back their power they are afraid to act they are afraid to lose their pension they are afraid to lose their jobs and by being afraid they are not able to do the job that they so desperately want to do for you and those who suffer most are the great people who they protect and who they want to protect at an even higher level when there is police misconduct the justice system must hold wrongdoers fully and completely accountable and it will but when we can never have a situation where things are going on as they are today we must never allow mob rule we can never allow mob rule in the strongest possible terms the republican party condemns the rioting looting arson and violence we have seen in democrat-run cities all like kenosha minneapolis portland chicago and new york and many others democrat run there is violence and danger in the streets of many democrat-run cities throughout america this problem could easily be fixed if they wanted to just call we're ready to go in we'll take care of your problem in a matter of hours just call we have to wait for the call it's too bad we have to but we have to wait for the call we must always have law and order all federal crimes are being investigated prosecuted and punished to the fullest extent of the law when the anarchists started ripping down our statues and monuments right outside i signed an order immediately 10 years in prison and it was a miracle it all stopped no more statues they said that's just too long as they looked at a statue i think we'll rip it down then they said 10 years in prison i think that's too long let's go home during their convention joe biden and his supporters remain completely silent about the rioters and criminals spreading mayhem in democrat-run cities they never even mentioned it during their entire convention never once mentioned now they're starting to mention it because their poll numbers are going down like a rocking water it's too late joe in the face of left-wing anarchy and mayhem in minneapolis chicago and other cities joe biden's campaign did not condemn it they donated to it at least 13 members of joe biden's campaign staff donated to a fund to bail out vandals arsonists anarchists looters and rioters from jail here tonight is the grieving family of retired police captain david dorn a 38-year veteran of the saint louis police department a great man and a highly respected man by all in june captain doorn was shot and killed as he tried to protect the store from rioters and looters or as the democrats would call them peaceful protesters they call them peaceful protesters we're honored to be joined tonight by his wonderful wife ann and beloved family members brian and kalyn to each of you we will never forget the heroic legacy of captain david dorn thank you very much for being here thank you thank you very much great man great man as long as i am president we will defend the absolute right of every american citizen to live in security dignity and peace if the democrat party wants to stand with anarchists agitators rioters looters and flag burners that is up to them but i as your president will not be a part of it the republican party will remain the voice of the patriotic heroes who keep america safe and salute the american flag last year over 1 000 african americans were murdered as a result of violent crime in just four democrat run cities the top 10 most dangerous cities in the country are run by democrats and have been for many decades thousands more african-americans are victims and victims of violent crime in these communities joe biden and the left ignore these american victims i never will if the radical left takes power they will apply their disastrous policies to every city town and suburb in america just imagine if the so-called peaceful demonstrators in the streets were in charge of every lever of power in the u.s government just think of that liberal politicians claim to be concerned about the strength of american institutions but who exactly is attacking them who is hiring the radical professors judges and prosecutors who is trying to abolish immigration enforcement and establish speech codes designed to muzzle dissent in every case the attacks on american institutions are being waged by radical left always remember they are coming after me because i am fighting for you that's what's happening and it's been going on from before i even got elected and remember this they spied on my campaign and they got caught let's see now what happens we must reclaim our independence from the left's repressive mandates americans are exhausted trying to keep up with the latest list of approved words and phrases and the ever more restrictive political decrees many things have a different name now and the rules are constantly changing the goal of cancel culture is to make decent americans live in fear of being fired expelled shamed humiliated and driven from society as we know it the far left wants to coerce you into saying what you know to be false and scare you out of saying what you know to be true very sad but on november 3rd you can send them a very thundering message they will never forget thank you thank you very much  joe biden is weak he takes his marching orders from liberal hypocrites who drive their cities into the ground while fleeing far from the scene of the wreckage these same liberals want to eliminate school choice while they enroll their children in the finest private schools in the land they want to open our borders while living in waldorf compounds and communities in the best neighborhoods in the world they wanted to fund the police while they have armed guards for themselves this november we must turn the page forever on this failed political class the fact is i'm here what's the name of that building but i'll say it differently the fact is we're here and they're not to me one of the most beautiful buildings anywhere in the world and it's not a building it's a home as far as i'm concerned not even a house it's a home it's a wonderful place with an incredible history but it's all because of you together we will write the next chapter of the great american story over the next four years we will make america into the manufacturing superpower of the world we will expand opportunity zones thank you tim scott bring home our medical supply chains and we will end our resilience for bad things we will go right after china we will not rely on them one bit we are taking our business out of china we are bringing it home we want our business to come home we will continue to reduce taxes and regulations at levels not seen before we will create 10 million jobs in the next 10 months and it will be higher than that we will hire more police increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement and surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities we will ban deadly sanctuary cities and ensure that federal health care is protected for american citizens not for illegal aliens we will have strong borders and i've said for years without borders we don't have a country don't have a country strike down terrorists who threaten our people and keep america out of endless and costly foreign wars we will appoint prosecutors judges justices who believe in enforcing the law not enforcing their own political agenda which is illegal we will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race religion color and creed we will uphold your religious liberty and defend your second amendment right to keep and bear arms and if we don't win your second amendment doesn't have a chance i can tell you that i have totally protected it we will protect medicare and social security we will always and very strongly protect patients with pre-existing conditions and that is a pledge from the entire republican party thank you kevin we will end surprise medical billing require price transparency and further reduce the cost of prescription drugs and health insurance premiums they're coming way down we will greatly expand energy development continuing to remain the number one in the world and keep america energy independent and for those of you that still drive a car look how low your gasoline bill is you haven't seen that in a long time we will win the race to 5g and build the world's best cyber and missile defense already under construction we will fully restore patriotic education to our schools and always protect we will always always protect free speech on college campuses and we put a very big penalty in they do anything having to do with your free speech colleges have to pay a tremendous tremendous financial penalty and again it's amazing how open they've been lately we will launch a new age of american ambition in space america will land the first woman on the moon and the united states will be the first nation to plant its beautiful flag on mars this is the unifying national agenda that will bring our country together so tonight i say to all americans this is the most important election in the history of our country there has never been such a difference between two parties or two individuals in ideology philosophy or vision than there is right now our opponents believe that america is a depraved nation we want our sons and daughters to know the truth america is the greatest and most exceptional nation in the history of the world our country wasn't built by cancer speech codes and soul-crushing conformity we are not a nation of timid spirits we are a nation of fierce proud and independent american patriots we're a nation of pilgrims pioneers adventurers explorers and trailblazers who refuse to be tied down held back or in any way reigned in americans have steel in their spines grit in their souls and fire in their hearts there is no one like us on earth i want every child in america to know that you are part of the most exciting and incredible adventure in human history no matter where your family comes from no matter your background in america anyone can rise with hard work devotion and drive you can reach any goal and achieve every ambition our american ancestors sailed across the perilous ocean to build a new life on a new continent they braved the freezing winters crossed the raging rivers scaled the rocky peaks trekked the dangerous forests and worked from dawn till dusk these pioneers didn't have money they didn't have fame but they had each other they love their families they love their country and they loved their god when opportunity beckoned they picked up their bibles packed up their belongings climbed into their covered wagons and set out west for the next adventure ranchers and miners cowboys and sheriffs farmers and settlers they pressed on past the mississippi to stake a claim in the wild frontier legends were born why erp annie oakley davey crockett and buffalo bill americans built their beautiful homesteads on the open range soon they had churches and communities then towns and with time great centers of industry and commerce that is who they were americans build their future we don't tear down our past we are the nation that won a revolution toppled tyranny and fascism and delivered millions into freedom we laid down the railroads built the great ships raised up the skyscrapers revolutionized industry and sparked a new age of scientific discovery we set the trends in art and music radio and film sport and literature and we did it all with style and confidence and flair because that is who we are whenever our way of life was threatened our heroes answered the call from yorktown to gettysburg from normandy to iwo jima american patriots raced into canon blasts bullets and bayonets to rescue american liberty they had no fear but america didn't stop there we looked into the sky and kept pressing onward we built a 6 million pound rocket and launched it thousands of miles into space we did it so the two brave patriots could stand tall and salute our wondrous american flag planted on the face of the moon for america nothing is impossible over the next four years we will prove worthy of this magnificent legacy we will reach stunning new heights and we will show that the world for america there is a dream and it is not beyond your reach together we are unstoppable together we are unbeatable because together we are the proud citizens of the united states of america and on november 3rd will make america safer we will make america stronger we will make america prouder and we will make america greater than ever before i am very very proud to be the nominee of the republican party i love you all god bless you and god bless america thank you very much 
fantastic job you've done really incredible and we'll invite the press in sometimes referred to as the fake news so you could let them come in please great job great thank you for the tour that's uh something they love seeing you yeah no it's it was a great honor if you feel more comfortable you'll say a couple of words you might want to take the masks off otherwise you can leave them on either way you want look how fast you took that off well thank you very much everybody for being here we took a really incredible tour and law enforcement has just done such a great job working with the national guard and working with a lot of people but we're here to show our support for kenosha and wisconsin the state of wisconsin has been very good to me i love the people we've done a lot for the state and we will continue to do a lot for the state we're all in this together and this was an example of what can happen when you do it right i'm pleased to be joined today by attorney general bill barr who's doing a really a fantastic job and bill thank you very much for being here secretary chad wolfe chad chad thank you ron johnson senator ron johnson who's uh outstanding i have to tell you so respected within the beautiful halls of congress and i appreciate the great job you do ron i hope the people of wisconsin appreciate how good a senator is do they have any idea do they know how good he is i think they do you're never going to get not elected run or i'll be very unhappy one of the best and also a young congressman that's been a warrior true warrior has been a fighter not only for some other very good causes but for this cause because he was the first one to call me and say we have a problem and brian i want to thank you brian style congressman and you have your first re-election i think you're going to win it big i hope you do you deserve to also my former chief of staff where's reince reince where is my reins reince priebus which shows that i definitely like this state because you are a very proud uh citizen of right here you're still here you never left did you you never would leave you've done a great job thank you very much reince kenosha has been ravaged by anti-police and anti-american riots they have been hit so hard and we were able to get involved david beth and daniel miskinus who i've been watching a lot on television now today i got to know him both very well and they have done an incredible job and you're going to say a few words in a couple of minutes and we would appreciate it also zach rodriguez supervisor kenosha county zach thank you very much jack good job you had a rough uh three days but then it got well brought into uh back in where you wanted it just where you wanted it the aaron decker supervisor for kenosha aaron thank you erin good job thank you very much don capla president of wisconsin fraternal order of police don thank you very much jerry johnson national trustee of the wisconsin fraternal order of police jerry thank you people have done a fantastic job really have to be proud of them james and sharon ward pastors where is that well it was great speaking to you yesterday and uh you're really a very respected man and i really enjoyed our conversation thank you both very much for being here appreciate it uh we also have uh major general paul knapp who is around here someplace but he was really right on the right on the thank you very much paul thank you he's been fantastic paul and scott and linda carpenter owners of b l office furniture scott you're back there someplace thank you thank you very much you got hit pretty hard right you got hit p pretty hard that's all right it's going to get rebuilt kimberly warner owner of the authentic gifts and report candle factory that's a very fancy name you have their report that's a fancy name but i'll bet it was beautiful is it uh are you gonna rebuild will you be destroyed rebuilding fortunately but so you'll be i'm here representing the smaller women small business downtown okay and um just being in support and great thanks for saving our town we'll be giving you some help okay we'll be giving you some help john wrote the third owner of rhodes camera shop now i i was there and that was 109 years and uh you want to say a couple of a couple of words would you like to i'd say where where is he oh okay good john stand up please 109 years 109 years thank you again for coming thank you for sending the national guard and again the police and the sheriff's department did an awesome job as well as the fire department kept up as good as excited and we're gonna help you that's a very very complete rebuild we're talking about down there that's incredible if they would have responded to the first call it would have been it would have been a little different story but they did respond which is better than some governors frankly and once they responded and once we took you know control of it things went really well you just met some very talented people outside and uh i think you're gonna have clear sailing but we'll we're gonna try giving you a hand your insurance company you're insured right yes and so they're helping and they're being responsible so far everything you'll let me know you'll let me know you've got to let me know at the end and ricky talapaya tra talapaetra that's a beauty that's a good one go ahead please uh representing we've two businesses in downtown that were vandalized we've been able to rebuild but i also represent the downtown kenosha incorporated organization who's leading the rebuilding effort for downtown and uptown it's been it's been a struggle but our community has been really incredible more people have come to help than we know what to do it but right now what we need is financial support uh loss of business and loss of poverty is staggering at this point all right we'll we'll be talking to you we're going to be helping you with law enforcement we're going to be helping you with some economic development get get it back in shape get kenosha back in shape and we'll get it back in i think very quickly i really think so and we'll be helped by john morrissey city administrator of kenosha john thank you very much john you have your work cut out for the next little while but you'll be fine i think we do you're going to be in great shape and samantha kirkman state representative district 61. thank you very much congratulations on doing a really great job thank you thank you great job you're doing appreciate it and van wan guard state senator district 21 highly respected person actually thank you very much thank you very much great thank you so much for your rapid response and the fact that that you're coming to a small city in the united states and just saying that that's as important as every other city and the fact that we did get things under control uh this guard has been phenomenal our law enforcement people have been working together we usually work pretty well together in southeastern wisconsin yeah but this really helps and reince has a lot to do with that too you can tell because you're good so thank you so much you're in our prayer thank you and you your reputations a great one so thank you very much and also this this area is a special area we can't let that happen to this area so we got here quickly and uh did the job violent mobs demolished or damaged at least 25 businesses burned down public buildings and threw bricks at police officers which your police officers won't stand for and they didn't stand for it these are not acts of peaceful protest but really domestic terror my administration coordinated with the state and local authorities to very very swiftly deploy the national guard surge federal law enforcement to kenosha and stop the violence and i strongly support the use of the national guard in other cities and the same thing would be happening if we did that you'd have the same thing happen in portland it would happen very quickly it would all be over very very quickly and i just want to thank the two of you for acting so strongly and so bravely and getting it done and the coordination has been fantastic you still need that coordination no matter how many people you send in i just came from a visit of one of the businesses that was burned down b l furniture and the great 109 year old camera shop which i i really respect because that was a had a reputation far beyond the state even and it's terrible to see several other business owners uh they're joining us and we have some in the back also to stop the political violence we must also confront the radical ideology that includes this violence reckless far-left politicians continue to push the destructive message that our nation and our law enforcement are oppressive or racist they'll throw out any word that comes to them actually we must give far greater support to our law enforcement it's all about giving them additional support these are great people these are great great people these are brave people they're fighting to save people that they've never met before in many cases and they're incredible we must really be thankful that we have them and we have to help them do their jobs we can't be threatening them with their pensions are going to be taken away their job's going to be taken away everything's going to be taken away they're going to be living a bad life if if they utter an incorrect word you can't do it we have to have our law enforcement we cherish our law enforcement we wouldn't be here without our law enforcement even me i'm here today i feel so safe and you went through hell just a few days ago but i feel so safe i better be safe i better be safe but we're all safe and we're safe because of law enforcement and we honor you and i will say this we have to condemn the dangerous anti-police rhetoric it's getting more and more it's very unfair you have some bad apples we all know that and those will be taken care of through the system and nobody's going to be easy on them either and you have people that joke they're under tremendous i said it yesterday i said it last night they're under tremendous pressure and they may be there for 15 years and have a spotless record and all of a sudden they're faced with the decision they have a quarter of a second quarter of a second to make a decision and if they make a wrong decision one way or the other they're either dead or they're in big trouble and people have to understand that they choke sometimes and it's a very tough situation right it's a very tough then people call them bad and horrible and they made a bad decision but if you think of it when they have and i know you practice this all the time where you give people uh literally a quarter of a second to make a decision and a lot of them can't make that right decision it's a very tough thing to do the vast and overwhelming majority of police officers are honorable courageous and devoted public servants they're incredible yet many politicians ignore their sacrifice and ignore the african-american hispanic american victims we have people there was love on the streets i can tell you of wisconsin when we were coming in there was love on the streets and so many african-americans hispanic americans i can see waving pastor was so beautiful to see they want to have they want to have safety they want to have safety you look at i'm not a huge believer in polls obviously but you look at polls whether it's 87 percent want to have great police they want to have strong police they want to have safety they're the ones that are most affected by tragedies like you'll see going around when these allegations of police wrongdoing and when you see that they have made allegations they must be fully and fairly investigated and that's what we're doing bill barr has done a fantastic job in that respect and we fully understand that because you do you do have problems the other way but there are very few you know the sad thing is you can do 10 000 great jobs as a policeman or policewoman you can do an incredible job for years and then you have one bad apple or something happens that's bad and that's the nightly news for three weeks that's all they talk about they don't talk about the thousands and thousands of good jobs the lives that you save they never talk about so i'm committed to helping kenosha rebuild we all are we will provide one million dollars to the kenosha law enforcement so that you have some extra money to go out and do what you have to do you took a rough it was a rough week to put it mildly and you've done it incredibly well i'm also providing nearly four million dollars to support these small businesses that i talked about today that got burned up burned down and we're going to be providing over 42 million dollars to support public safety statewide including direct support for law enforcement and funding for additional prosecutors to punish criminals and resources to provide services to victims of crime and that was bill barr wanted that money put in so that's 42 million dollars that will help with prosecutors and all of the other things that are so important to you you need that because when you when you grab them and then nothing happens and they're back on the street that doesn't work out too well my administration is restoring public safety we're hiring more police surging tough one crime federal prosecutors increasing penalties for assaulting law enforcement and for dismantling antifa it doesn't they don't want to mention the word antifa nobody mentions that there's a bad group of people very very bad very dangerous group of people and we are doing a big number on antifa they're bad earlier this year we announced operation legend to surge federal law enforcement to high crime neighborhoods it is a thing that has really worked out amazingly well bill but it's really under sort of really understated in a sense we we've already conducted more than one 000 arrests in our first month in chicago we went to chicago very recently obviously that's been a disaster chicago total disaster with again radical left democrat and we just have to straight it's all democrat everything's democrat all of these problems are democrat cities we don't want to say it but it is the top ten or democrat then you go into the top 25 and take a look at that it's the same thing we cut the number of murders in chicago last month in half still way too many but the operation legend was very very very successful now it's just really getting going but they cut it in half and just at its very early stage this in sharp contrast to those who want to slash police funding oppose using the national guard and want to hire radical judges and prosecutors who will release riders looters and criminals we have that in portland where the prosecutors don't want to do anything you can catch somebody doing the worst crime and they don't want to do anything so we're very very uh not going to be cut police funding we want to increase police funding substantially they want to end cash bail which has been a killer for new york if you look at what's happening in new york they allow thousands of people out of jail in new york and they're walking around and they're causing nothing but problems who would not know that you don't have to know anything about policing i'm not a policeman but i would know that if you let these people out many of them are going to cause tremendous problems so they want to end cash bail incentivize prison closures they want to close the prison so that can't hold anybody reimagine public safety end immigration enforcement resume catch and release at the border uh as uh chad will tell you we've had tremendous success on the border we're up to over 300 miles of border wall and we're having the best year we've ever had in the border people are coming in but they only come in legally or they for the most part they only come in illegally the wall will be finished very shortly it's had a tremendous impact so and the other thing we want to appoint supreme court justices and judges we'll be up to almost 300 judges by the end of the term and two supreme court justices and so we have a lot of things to do we have a lot of great things to do but it's an honor to be in your neighborhood it's an honor to be in your great state wisconsin and we're here for you all the way some people thought it would be a good thing for me to come a bad thing i just wanted to come i really came today to thank law enforcement and to just really that what they what you've done has been incredible it's been really inspiring because you see it happening all over and it just never seems to end and it never seems to end because it's almost as though they don't want it to end because you ended it really fast and congressman i want to thank you for the job you did you were the first call and i want to thank you very much brian great really great job with that i'd like to introduce bill barr attorney general of the united states say a few words thank you thank you mr president um as most of you know whenever there is an officer involved shooting in our country uh it's reviewed by local uh authorities uh to ensure that it was reasonable force and when there are questions raised about it the federal government also the justice department also reviews it and like all procedures and processes in our country we do it under due process and we try to reach a dispassionate reasoned decision based on an analysis of the situation we do not allow judgments to be reached because of mob violence we do not have mob violence in this country make our decisions over the fate of individuals when when their actions are challenged and when the shooting occurred uh here in kenosha under the direction of the president we told the dod the defense department to get ready some national guard units in case they were needed to help here and from several states volunteered to supply national guard if they were needed and the president directed me to assemble a group of federal law enforcement that could be dispatched here uh which we did and staged them in chicago and we were picking up information that that these violent instigators were coming to kenosha they were coming from california washington state a lot from chicago and they were coming up to kenosha so we expected matters to get worse the violence that erupted shortly after the shooting is simply not a legitimate response to a police shooting and the looting and the arson were unacceptable and as it progressed it became more and more distant from the issue of racial justice it was violence for violence sake and once again we saw the hijacking of a protest by a hardcore group of of radicals who were carrying out planning a coordinated violent attack on law enforcement on public property and on private property and that can't be tolerated these are the the same people many of them who came from out of town out of 175 arrests a hundred were from out of town and some these are the same people using the same tactics that have been used in various cities washington dc atlanta chicago now kenosha portland and they use these black block tactics throwing projectiles at police and literally trying to inflict injuries on police arson and rioting they came equipped as even the mayor of washington acknowledged they come equipped to fight and it's completely unacceptable and the state is the first line of defense if if local leaders are committed to keeping the public safe it can be done and while it was slow in getting off the starting block this is an example that when you have the local political leadership backing the police you have the state willing to put in the resources in terms of national guard and the federal government able to come up uh with support such as the fbi the marshals and atf who have some special skills and forensic ability to help there will be peace on the streets and there's going to be accountability what people don't see is that in all of these cities there are task forces of federal and state officers reviewing all the video that we can get our hands on and when we are able to identify people who committed crimes in these riots going all the way back to the beginning whether they're burning police cars or throwing rocks at people which are deadly they will be prosecuted that's a large-scale effort and it's going to continue so i can i can tell you mr president that as far as the federal government is concerned we welcome the opportunity to work with state and local to deal with this public safety issue law enforcement is used to working together we do a good job when we're allowed to work together this is no different than dealing with violent crime where we work together we can achieve results and the federal government is willing to use all our tools and all our laws to bring these people to justice thank you thank you very much you're doing a great job bill thank you senator ron johnson from your wonderful state and he is one of the great senators i can tell you that in the u.s senate he's one of the best ron please there's no doubt what you've been talking about in terms of the decisiveness the resolve the surging of resources i think 44 different counties sent representatives from different sheriff departments that really helped stop the rioting and and bring pieces the streets but we have you know pastor ward and his wife and and i reached out because i was just so appreciative of julie jackson's words of forgiveness and of healing and so you combine the proper role of law enforcement the support for law enforcement with people that also want to end the violence that are willing to forgive and are willing to offer those words of healing so i thought that was very powerful i was really appreciative offer those words forgiveness and trying to attain that type of unity and healing so again mr president i thank you for coming here for for coming here to thank law enforcement to support law enforcement but also coming here just to support the citizens of kenosha and wisconsin as we rebuild as as we recover from something that the vast majority people abhor and do not support thank you very much ron appreciate it congressman please brian style mr president i appreciate you being here as events spiraled out of control um people started calling me they were scared they were nervous they were concerned about their safety their family's safety their home their place of employment and they were looking for where to turn it was very clear from talking to folks here in the city of kenosha local elected leaders that we needed additional resources in the community of kenosha immediately that's ultimately why i called you on tuesday morning and after only seven minutes you got on the phone with me you said brian i'm there for the people of kenosha and the people of kenosha everyone that called me wanted public safety here in this community and they wanted it immediately they didn't care if the help was democrat republican or from the man on the moon but what you did is made the call and said enough's enough we need to get resources into the community of kenosha and ultimately when that offer was accepted i think it became very clear to the criminal element that they knew that kenosha meant business we made some significant arrests in conjunction with local law enforcement working very well with the federal government hand in glove when i talked to folks in law enforcement here in kenosha and when the federal government works hand in hand with the state and with local government you can get a lot done and i think it speaks volumes about the people here in the community of kenosha this is a hard-working family loving town that wants safety in their community and one more piece is i've had the opportunity to talk to a lot of the men and women in law enforcement those on the front lines i spoke to a gentleman that had a brick thrown at him i've spoken to law enforcement officers who had horrific words said about them and these men and women are members of our community that wake up every day put the badge over their heart walk out the door sworn to answer the call to protect our community and i think you coming and saying thank you to those men and women in law enforcement speaks volumes and today we have public safety restored we appreciate all the work you did on that and now we begin the work of healing and rebuilding kenosha to make kenosha stronger than it's ever been before we thank you very much for being here thank you brian great job david beth sheriff please mr president thank you so much for being here um when this started sunday night we knew it was going to get worse but we really didn't know how bad and there's no way that one or in our case two agencies can work together to fight what happened when we put out the call initially to the state and local law enforcement here it was a tremendous response but it still wasn't enough on monday night the national guard started coming on monday night and started helping us and their numbers kept growing and we called brian on tuesday morning early the the leaders of kenosha and we said we'll take help from whoever will send it our way will we want to protect the people of kenosha the city of kenosha the county of kenosha we want to protect it and brian said i'm going to make a phone call and a short time later we knew that the resources of the of the united states of the federal government and of the president were on its way and we we knew that it took a little a little uh uh discussion between state and federal levels and but we're very thankful that it worked out because as i said i didn't care who i got help from i wanted resources here and after it was approved uh and i got the word that the president said whatever you need it's coming and i had some of uh some very very important people from washington tell me the president i have to report to the president mr barr and tell him what does the sheriff want and and the resources just kept coming the people kept coming the uh the gratitude kept coming for and i heard stories and i probably shouldn't share this but some people that were in portland that weren't treated as good as they were treated here and they said we can't believe what a different place this is because of how we all worked together rather than not wanting to work together at all so thank you for being the president that likes law enforcement on behalf of law enforcement i'm telling you the group that's here i hope you could feel the love that they have for you and everybody who came and and uh it's quite an operation to watch to be part of in truth my life my life i never thought i would see anything like this and hopefully i never have to see this again but the resources that that in this case the federal government and you provided and mr barr and and mr johnson and the people here it's unbelievable what we have here right now and uh it's all to protect the people of kenosha and and uh i still i'll take any help i can get and i thank you for it thank you sheriff i'll tell you you've done a great job and you know just if they're watching portland or chicago or new york or any one of other cities that we're talking about but portland probably would be so easy maybe that would be the first one because i see it every night it's on the news it's burning they're always playing games and i don't know then he gets up and says we're trying to work together and the whole thing is great then they want to burn down his house last night the mayor but we're ready willing and able to send in you know a massive group of people that are really highly trained you saw that they're here your experience right and we could solve that problem in less than an hour in portland so i hope they call eventually they'll call and at some point bill would just have to do it ourselves we're gonna have to do something that's uh that i think the people will be extremely happy with maybe the mayor won't and maybe the governor won't but i don't know if they know what they're doing i just so sad to watch it happen but here you acted and acted appropriately please daniel go ahead mr president first of all thank you for the support thank you for coming to what is uh small town america kenosha's 100 000 people by national standards we're still small but what you also have here is a reaction to was an attack on small town america the tactics that are being used across this nation to attack law enforcement are warfare type tactics and we still use restraint and function within our rules so those two together there's not a there's not a tit for attack those aren't equal so with the ability of the national guard to come out and assist us with the tremendous outpouring of support from the federal assets from every department that has come out we will excuse me we were able to restore peace and we're working toward order and and healing and growth and as part of what is going on in the world police scrutiny is not a bad thing police or attacks on the police and the things that are happening that lead to riots that's not about police scrutiny that's not about anything else those are those are legitimate attacks so what worked for us was we certainly had a unified command we had a unified mission that normally takes some time to build but instantly between myself and the sheriff and the local leaders the city administration county we pulled together we worked with the city we worked with state we worked with officers from southeast of here and there's not a lot southeast of wisconsin or kenosha to the northwest corner of the state we have people from two steps away from canada sending officers down here so the response here in the law enforcement community was tremendous and everybody i talked to was here to help restore peace and order for the good people of kenosha and thank you for helping us thank you daniel great job you did thank you and you two worked together beautifully it's really good really good job uh please chad well thank you mr president uh americans need and deserve both law enforcement and public safety regardless of where they live regardless of their politics the decrease in violence that we've seen here in kenosha over the last several days is really just a prime example of how federal state and local law enforcement can work together it's really a model that we can replicate elsewhere portland and other cities across the country and this administration mr president you've been very clear if cities need help they need assistance if they need resources and capabilities beyond their reach all they have to do is call law enforcement the federal government and we will be there dhs partners not only with the department of justice but with local communities every day to protect the citizens of those communities we're providing law enforcement here in kenosha some assistance uh until you're able to rebuild and get back on your feet so um certainly want to uh extend our appreciation for what you do and let me just say um the attacks on law enforcement recently have been very vocal about that uh are very disgusting we need to thank our men and women of law enforcement they put on a badge and a uniform every day they're attacked every day for simply wearing that uniform and doing their job so again on behalf of the 240 000 men and women of the department i want to say thank you to the local law enforcement for doing your job and protecting your communities thank you really nice thank you pastors would you like to say a prayer yes sir i'd love to have that uh because you are so highly thought of in the area so please james sharon you still pray please father we come to you in the name of our lord jesus christ and we thank you for this time that you've divinely ordained father we ask you to forgive us all where we've strayed from your ways and well we've not acknowledged your word we ask that you would continue to cause this nation to be one nation under god that you alone are the one who can make us individual indivisible and by being indivisible there will be liberty and justice for all we simply pray that you would bring our nation back to you that your word will be dominant that you would cause us to walk in love to live in love restore empathy and compassion kindness concern for each other lord i pray for our president as your word says that you would strengthen him and continue to give him the wisdom and the heart to lead during this time as well as as all the leaders that are here we give ourselves to you and we ask you for your good hand to be upon us in the name of jesus our lord we pray amen amen thank you very much sharon would you like to say something i i would um i think i'm here first of all representing intercessors and people that are praying just really i think we need to mobilize people in prayer to pray for this country and also i think it's important to have black people at the table um to help you know solve the problem and also um i think james and i are our prayers that we're able to work to really bring about a change i think there's a lot of great change that's been mentioned here of how law enforcement has quickly solved the problem of the crime in the street but i think there's i think this is a good opportunity for us to really solve the problem the nation and um i think james and i could help with that so that's really well put yes james mr president if i may add being the only pastors in the room if i could maybe just share a little bit from a different perspective that i think would bring balance i have a great friend who is chief tony scarpelli the chief of police in the town where our church is right and i talk about the partnership between pastors and police and i often tell tony that if we can do our job well it will make his his job easier that's because there are three types of law that govern society there's spiritual law moral law and civil law most of the conversation here today has been about civil law but until we can really focus on spiritual and moral law and change the hearts of people we'll have to continue to to build bigger jails and bigger princes prisons until we can bring our nation back to the place of spiritual and moral law we certainly want to honor julia jackson we're her pastors we're not the pastor of the entire family but on her you know yes sir i will give her your regards and we certainly pray for jacob's continued healing and we pray for peace but i just want to offer to you mr president that um jesus himself says blessed are the peacemakers and we want to help be of service to you and to our nation of having these conversations of how do we rebuild the foundations of spirituality and morality which gives us the context of of love if you give a righteous good moral man the launch goes to our nuclear arsenal everyone will be safe because he's a good man but if you give a malicious man who is immoral an ink pen you have to fear for your life i i would just want to want to say that we're here to be of service to you and to our country to bring unity we believe that we can help to listen with empathy and compassion to the real pain that that hurts black americans but we want to be of service to you and to our nation to do whatever we can to bring true healing true peace and to really see god's very best in our nation we're here available we're available anytime you will call upon us so you know what i think i think you're an incredible couple i really do i think you're an incredible couple thank you and thank you very much for being here yes sir really really great beautiful uh do you have any questions you'd like to please in federal agents for cities like portland no it's not but yeah no it's not it's just that we're tired of watching every night with portland they're on night 104 now and we're tired of watching it because it could be solved in an hour and we're tired of watching a mayor that has no clue what's going on and people are calling our office and people are calling washington that live in portland and live in the state and they're saying please please send help and the governor we call the governor often and they say no we don't need your help but i say your community is burning down they don't need our help now i don't know if that's political i don't know what is going on certainly not common sense but we can solve it just like here we all work together we came in the federal government the state government the city government everybody worked together the senator the congressman it was like a beautiful thing it just came it just worked and it was done almost instantly people were amazed and as you probably will have to report maybe people are surprised there's been zero problem in terms of your safety our safety i feel so safe four four or five days ago james we couldn't have done this the law enforcement's been so great and we could do this in portland so quickly so easily it would it would be incredible we would have done it in seattle we were all set to go into seattle as you know the following day and they heard that and they sent the police and the police did a good job but they the people gave up they were exhausted they were there for a long time and they gave up they were exhausted so we're there i mean we'd love to help oregon we'd love to help really love to help portland because we could solve that problem so easily we have the people there ready they could be there in less than an hour less than an hour and it would all end and they got a glimpse of that in this great state they got a really good glimpse of it it happened very quickly and now i mean i see it they're already rebuilding you're already rebuilding your stores you'll be rebuilding your store soon your camera shop so uh we don't want to do that but at some point we're going to have to do it we're going to have to do it okay can you tell me what you would say to the blake family i know you didn't get a chance to talk to them but what would you say to them in terms of the pain they're going through and the questions they have about what happened well i feel terribly for anybody that goes through that that's why i was so honored to meet the pastors uh i feel terribly for anybody that goes through that as you know it's under investigation it's a big thing happening right now i guess it's under local investigation i know bill you're also participating but it's under your local investigation group unit and i hope they come up with the right answer it's a complicated subject to be honest with you but i feel terribly for anybody that has to go through and i didn't get to speak to the mother i hear she's a fine woman i've heard that from the pastor a really fine woman but you can see when i spoke to the pastors i see exactly what it is and they understand where i am and if we can help we're going to help but it is a question it's under investigation a lot of things happened with that and other things frankly that we're looking at very very closely okay should every police officer in the united states wear a body camera body cam uh well that's very interesting let me ask bill to answer that question go ahead well generally that's that's a local uh issue for each police force in each community the political leaders of a community to decide upon but i think most law enforcement people i know uh who were originally skeptical of body cameras are now coming around to feeling that they actually are a net benefit it's a very tough you know it's a very the whole thing with a body cam you read it and you read two sides of the story how do you feel about it daniel i believe that body cameras would be very helpful for you you think they're good i believe they show both sides where right now officers would be vindicated for some of the things that they've been accused of and certainly if there were inappropriate actions those would be captured but you overall i support them how about you we're good with it or it's already been put into the budget for 2021 and uh okay so you'll be having them we'll be having them okay good they like them questions um the problem of police violence has been described as just the problem of a few bad apples repeatedly you're gonna have to speak up please yeah uh the problem of police violence has been described by you including president uh as just bad apples few bad apples or people who choke occasionally some african-american community leaders and a lot of others actually have said it's systemic where do you stand on that i don't believe that no i don't believe that i think the police do an incredible job and i think you do have some bad apples i think you'd agree every once in a while you'll see something and and you do have the other situation too where they're under this tremendous pressure and they they don't handle it well they call it choking and it happens and no but i don't believe that at all i think they're i've met so many police i have the endorsement of like so many maybe everybody and frankly i think they're incredible people they want to do the right thing it's a tough job it's a tough job it's a dangerous job but i have to say this to the police the the people of our country love you you don't hear that you don't hear it from them but the people of our country love you and they respect you and they and you know it you feel it in your heart or you wouldn't be doing it or you wouldn't be doing it but there's a great love and when they see what goes on and when they see a case like this where it's solved so quickly they respect the police a lot really a lot so you should hear it at least follow on that um we're focusing on violent uh actions but there have been countless non-violent protests here in wisconsin and across the country this summer uh people calling for an end to systemic racism do you believe systemic racism is a problem in this country well you know you just keep getting back to the opposite subject we should talk about the kind of violence that we've seen in portland and here and other places it's tremendous violence you always get to the other side well what do you think about this or that the fact is that we've seen tremendous violence and we will put it out very very quickly if given the chance and that's what this is all about yeah i keep hearing about peaceful protests i hear it about everything and then i come into an area like this and i see the town is burned down i mean you look at minneapolis they should have acted much quicker when we got the national guard in there it took literally a half an hour you saw the scene they formed they walked it was over and they haven't had a problem of any consequence since their police weren't allowed to do the job that they could do they're very good police department but they weren't now they want to break it up they want to end it they don't want to have a police department they want to not only defund they want to get rid of it it's ridiculous so i just say this that the kind of violence that i saw you may have protesters but you have some really bad people too you have anarchists and you have the looters and you have the writers you have all types you have agitators and that's what you should be focusing on with your question i keep hearing about peaceful protests it's become really i think it's hurt the media very badly because you'll have somebody standing on one of the networks i won't say which one but there are more than one many of them seeing how it's a peaceful protest and over the shoulder you see the whole place is burning down it's become a pretty common sight so i don't view the peaceful protest i think peaceful protesting is fantastic i think it's great but by and large this is not peaceful protest when you walk into a an area and you see buildings that have burned down and fortunately here we stopped it early and so the damage is relatively minimal but when you look at some of these areas that they just don't ask for the help they refuse to allow us to go in and help them and by the time you get there the place is is disintegrated and then they say it was a peaceful protest it's not a peaceful protest and you shouldn't call it a peaceful protest okay one more please answer my question my question was to the pastors say it again the peaceful protests that have happened you're gonna have to speak up the peaceful protests that have happened you've acknowledged some of them are peaceful they're calling for structural change mr blake was shot i mean seven times in the back do you believe that there is a need for structural change what is your message well i think people are calling for structural change and then you could take the people of kenosha that aren't here and that you won't see and that aren't protesting but they want change also they want to see law and order that's the change they want they want law and order they want the police to be police they want the police to do what they do better than anybody else in the world and that's what they want too you don't see them marching and you don't see them on the streets but what they want is they want great police force they want people that are going to keep them safe where their houses aren't broken into where they're not raped and murdered that's what they want and they're protesters too but they don't walk down the street up and down the street so you know just the way it is just the way it is so i want to thank you all and i'll see you back at the plane thank you very much thank you thank you great job fantastic job thank you everybody thank you very much appreciate it
me   good  okay we're getting   foreign   down    back  come on   take my   cheese  okay  engines  is  that he driving ladies and gentlemen the president of the united states donald j trump  we had in north carolina i'll tell you i don't know if you saw the crowd outside but it's pretty amazing but we've had it in texas and ohio and south carolina it's just incredible what's happening please sit down please and i'm honored to be in north carolina the of true american heroes as we commemorate the 75th anniversary of the american victory in world war ii and victory it was on september 2nd 1945 the great general douglas good arthur accepted japan's unconditional surrender aboard the uss missouri in tokyo bay bj day marked the end of the deadliest conflict in human history and the ultimate trial of american freedom it was a big day it's a great triumph a great country and our country is greater than ever before it's what's happening and that's what it is  we're deeply moved to be joined this afternoon by world war ii veterans all of whom i've met all of whom are tough i don't want to mess around with any of them i'll tell you right now whose blood sweat grit courage and unveiling devotion made that epic victory possible these brave americans raced into the fires of hell to vanquish tyranny dethrone fascism and defend the american way of life you've earned the eternal and undying gratitude of all americans and that's why i'm here today i wanted to be with you you know what i'm talking about we had a good time all right national medal of honor regardless to be joined as well by veterans from every generation including a number of wounded warriors we stand in all of your service i can say that so respect so we are all joining us for this commemoration our secretary david bernhardt secretary david thank you david very much for being here a great senator a real friend of mine a tremendous senator actually and he works very very hard and he loves the people of north carolina senator tom tillis john thank you very much and some warriors here in congress and then helping this mark representatives david browser ted budd and dan bishop thank you fellas they are tough if you notice these days i'll pay you right now all right you know there's no better place to mark this profound world war two anniversary than right here in wilmington north carolina the people of this city in this state and it's incredible state and i want to thank you for being so nice to me you've been very nice very very nice every time we've asked for something but i'd be nice to you also i have to say that but you made the extraordinary contributions to the war effort that south carolina made this extraordinary contribution in so many nearly two million american serb has been trained for combat in north carolina more than any other state wow that's pretty good who would know that you mean more than anything over 360 000 service members from your state bought in the second world war they battled in the clifton permanente over the skies of africa and in the deep waters of the pacific over 11 000 north carolina pages fought the enemy until their very last breath you know what that means right think of that 11 000 died in the war we want to thank you boy and we have family members here by the way that's them saying hello in wilmington more than 20 000 workers of the north carolina shipbuilding company poured out every ounce of their strength to build an astonishing 243 ships of the u.s navy and it was the citizens of wilmington who came together to save a priceless artifact of american history the glorious battleship behind me the uss north carolina and that is some powerful and beautiful ship i'm coming in on coming in for this we have plenty of utilities on air force one and they showed it in prime time in the 40s and they showed that ship that i said he'll make i shouldn't say this will make them that way anymore what a beautiful ship during world war ii this magnificent ship participated in many major naval offenses and in the pacific theater itself including the marshall islands iwo jima and okinawa earning more battle stars than any other battleship we're learning a lot today right that's pretty good why are you talking you come from west virginia huh he loves west virginia right but we're talking anyway you better believe it thank you after the war the people of wilmington organized a massive campaign to save this beautiful ship from the scrapyard they preserved it as a memorial to the gallanties of americans a monument to the american workers that built it and an enduring symbol of american greatness now more than 200 000 people visit the site each year to learn the history and the heroism that defines our nation this afternoon my administration is formally recognizing the city's exceptional contributions to victory in the second world war it is my tremendous honor to officially designate wilmington north carolina as our nation's very first world war ii heritage city that's a big deal our nation's very first woman congratulations and  this designation we proudly declare that in america we don't take it down to the past we celebrate our heroes we cherish our heritage we preserve our history and we build the future this mighty vessel and this magnificent town will forever tell that story with this designation so i want to just congratulate north carolina and wilmington that's a fantastic fantastic thing i want to thank senator tillis and congressman bowser stand up please in between the lightning bolts for their work to make the state possible thank you thank you fellas great job and let me also thank retired baby captain wilbur jones who is championship thank you so you are just a tough cookie you got it number one number one in the nation i want to thank wilbur that's great i also want to recognize several of the heroes who saved american freedom and i've known some of them since i've been in office i've seen them there they are here today is my good friend who i just left and he was in the oval office with me at the white house woody williams 75 years ago woody showed fearless courage as a marine in the battle of iwo jima you are amazing i promised him i would not tell that he's 97 years old i promise i'll tell you he's 100 sharp he's 100 sharp i know a 78 year old that's not so sharp and he's 97 and he's 100 because has nothing to do with that 78's young depends who's 78 that's all he's 97 i said man you are something and physically in great shape he braved the torrent of hostile fire while destroying one enemy machine gun position after another knocked him out one after one for his daring actions president truman think of that awarded woody the congressional medal of honor the highest in our land woody congratulations you inspire us all it was great to have you on air force one i have promised him you know maybe two years ago i said i'll take you on air force when he came up he's very aggressive he said i'd like to fly an air force one i said i'll do it and today we did it right we got it done thanks woody great job also joining us today is paul phillips a veteran of world war ii korea and vietnam during the second world war paul proudly served on the uss north carolina in the pacific theater at 93 years old he has returned today to visit the ship upon which he's so nobly served he's a tremendous man paul it's our honor to have you with us please paul stand up thank you paul thank you perfect thank you paul great job paul appreciate it here as well as army veteran greg when greg was 20 years old he served as a radio operator in the headquarters of supreme allied commander general dwight d eisenhower i'd love to have heard some of those conversations much more interesting than today right 75 years ago general eisenhower directed greg to broadcast around the world the long-awaited news that germany had surrendered greg you're being here is very very much appreciated thank you very much it was a great honor meeting you before thank you very much very very great honor  our task today is to pass on to the next generation the blessings of liberty that you fought for and that you bled for all for security you wanted to secure our future you wanted to praise and raise our flag and you did that you raised our flag and you stand proud and you stand tall and we're doing it in our nation to almost everyone every once in a while you see somebody not do it we don't like it when they don't do it do we we don't like it i want to just thank you fantastic job american warriors did not defeat fascism and oppression overseas only to watch our freedoms be trampled by violent mobs here at home we stop those violent mobs very easily all they have to do is say please come in mr president we'll have it done in one hour please come in it's one of the great to me just incredible that they don't immediately they just as you know at portland the mayor last night he was raided his home was raided he was thrown out of his home and then he'll stand up and he'll fight for these people these people only know one thing and that's strength that's all they know strength and we have strength for the sake of all americans we must uphold the rule of law and defend the american dream for every child in our land we must teach our children that america is the land of heroes like you your heroes you know that right woody you're heroes you're great great men great men better believe it we're not ashamed in america we're not ashamed of anything i signed a very important edict recently three months ago they were ripping down statues i said you can rip them down but you're going to serve 10 years in jail if you do and as soon as i did that incredibly you haven't heard about statues coming down statues or monuments but we're not ashamed of our country we're proud of our country prouder than we are of anything else our country is great and we're going to keep it that way we're going to keep our country great together we will remember america's towering victories we will recognize america's outstanding virtues and we will pay tribute to the heroes who keep us safe strong proud and free and i also in addition to our wonderful brilliant military i want to thank law enforcement because the law enforcement without them were not here today very well they've done an incredible job really an incredible job and thank you again to the world war ii veterans in attendance today this is such a great tribute to north carolina we will never forget what you did for us your legacy has edged forever into the heart and soul of a grateful nation and this spot is right now one of the most important military spots anywhere in the world congratulations to everybody and thank you for making it come true thank you all very much god bless you god bless north carolina and god bless america thank you all very much thank  oh 
to secretary carson secretary devos dr larry yarn educators students and participants and all those looking on for this white house conference on american history welcome to the national archives it's an honor to be with you all please today is constitution day a day in which we celebrate the work of genius that's preserved in these very halls 233 years ago today our founders completed what for them was the work of a nation but for humanity a work for the ages the constitution of the united states of america for the first time in history a government was founded by we the people to form a more perfect union establish justice ensure domestic tranquility provide the common defense promote the general welfare and secure the blessings of liberty for themselves and their posterity john adams our first vice president aptly described our constitution in his words as quote the single greatest effort of national deliberation that the world has ever seen and so it was but we all know the summer of 1787 didn't just happen it was preceded by the summer of 1776 in the signing of our declaration of independence whose magisterial words continue to echo into our time that we as americans hold certain truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal and endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights and that among these are life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness with those words america laid the foundations for a government whose purpose in the words of president abraham lincoln was and i quote to elevate the condition of men to lift artificial weights from all shoulders to clear the paths of laudable pursuit for all as the words inscribed on the walls of these national archives read this building holds and trusts the records of our national life and symbolizes our faith in the permanency of our national institutions the declaration of independence and the constitution are the greatest charters of freedom the world has ever known  the character of our people and the principles enshrined there are the reason for our nation's unparalleled success and they remain the greatest bulwark against tyranny in history the reason is simple our founders knew history sadly we live in a time when too many are forgetting history today thomas jefferson warned that quote if a nation expects to be ignorant and free in a state of civilization it expects what never was and never will be but sadly we live in a time when some seek to erase our history and deny our nation's relentless march toward a more perfect union as president trump has observed in too many of our schools and universities millions of young people are educated by those who seek to wipe out our history defame our heroes erase our values and indoctrinate our children but we gather here today soon to hear from the president of the united states as americans who are committed to affirming the greatness of this nation and the ideals of our founders our president understands what we all understand if we don't teach the next generation the principles enshrined in these halls we can't expect them to preserve them no one can preserve what they do not love and no one can love what they do not know why on this constitution day our president will reaffirm our commitment to the principles and liberties that this administration has championed from day one and take measurable steps to ensure that future generations will continue to understand the historical and philosophical roots of our nation what we do here today is a part of our ongoing commitment to ensure that the rising generation will be able to do their part as we know they will to preserve protect and defend the constitution of the united states and this we know they will do because these principles are not just enshrined in these national archives they're enshrined in the hearts of the american people and i know these great principles will prevail because like our president i have faith in the american people and i have faith that he who guided our founders on this day 233 years ago guides us still for as the father of our constitution james madison reflected on this day and i quote it is impossible not to perceive in it a finger of that almighty hand which has been so frequently and signally extended to our relief at critical stages of the revolution so it's constitution day in america and with gratitude to all of those who have gone before gratitude to all of you who are gathered here who love and cherish our heritage of freedom with gratitude to god who has ever guided the destiny of this land and gratitude to a president who has ever championed the freedoms and ideals enshrined in this place it is now my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the 45th president of the united states of america president donald trump  thank you very much thank you mike great vice president i'm truly honored to be here at the very first white house conference on american history so important our mission is to defend the legacy of america's founding the virtue of america's heroes and the nobility of the american character we must clear away the twisted web of lies in our schools and classrooms and teach our children the magnificent truth about our country we want our sons and daughters to know that they are the citizens of the most exceptional nation in the history of the world to grow up in america is to live in a land where anything is possible where anyone can rise and where any dream can come true all because of the immortal principles of our nation's founders inscribed nearly two and a half centuries ago that's why we've come to the national archives the sacred home of our national memory in this great chamber we preserve our glorious inheritance the declaration of independence the constitution the bill of rights on this very day in 1787 our founding fathers signed the constitution at independence hall in philadelphia it was the fulfillment of a thousand years of western civilization our constitution was the product of centuries of tradition wisdom and experience no political document has done more to advance the human condition or propel the engine of progress yet as we gather this afternoon a radical movement is attempting to demolish this treasured and precious inheritance we can't let that happen left-wing mobs have torn down statues of our founders desecrated our memorials and carried out a campaign of violence and anarchy far left demonstrators have chanted the words america was never great the left has launched a vicious and violent assault on law enforcement the universal symbol of the rule of law in america these radicals have been aided and abetted by liberal politicians establishment media and even large corporations whether it is the mob on the street or the canceled culture in the boardroom the goal is the same to silence dissent to scare you out of speaking the truth and to bully americans into abandoning their values their heritage and their very way of life we are here today to declare that we will never submit to tyranny we will reclaim our history and our country for citizens of every race color religion and crete the radicals burning american flags want to burn down the principles enshrined in our founding documents including the bedrock principle of equal justice under law in order to radically transform america they must first cause americans to lose confidence in who we are where we came from and what we believe as i said at mount rushmore which they would love to rip down and rip it down fast that's never going to happen two months ago the left-wing cultural revolution is designed to overthrow the american revolution as many of you testified today the left-wing rioting in mayhem are the direct result of decades of left-wing indoctrination in our schools it's gone on far too long our children are instructed from propaganda tracks like those of howard zinn that try to make students ashamed of their own history the left has warped distorted and defiled the american story with deceptions falsehoods and lies there is no better example than the new york times totally discredited 1619 project this project rewrites american history to teach our children that we were founded on the principle of oppression not freedom nothing could be further from the truth america's founding set in motion the unstoppable chain of events that abolish slavery secured civil rights defeated communism and fascism and built the most fair equal and prosperous nation in human history  the narratives about america being pushed by the far left and being chanted in the streets bear a striking resemblance to the anti-american propaganda of our adversaries because both groups want to see america weakened derided and totally diminished students in our universities are inundated with critical race theory this is a marxist doctrine holding that america is a wicked and racist nation that even young children are complicit in oppression and that our entire society must be radically transformed critical race theory is being forced into our children's schools it's being imposed into workplace trainings and it's being deployed to rip apart friends neighbors and families a perfect example of critical race theory was recently published by the smithsonian institution this document alleged that concepts such as hard work rational thinking and the nuclear family and belief in god were not values that unite all americans but were instead aspects of whiteness this is offensive and outrageous to americans of every ethnicity and it's especially harmful to children of minority backgrounds who should be uplifted not disparaged teaching this horrible doctrine to our children is a form of child abuse in the truest sense of those words for many years now the radicals have mistaken americans silence for weakness but they're wrong there is no more powerful force than a parent's love for their children and patriotic moms and dads are going to demand that their children are no longer fed hateful lies about this country american parents are not going to accept indoctrination in our schools cancel culture in our work or the repression of traditional faith culture and values in the public square not anymore  thank you thank you very much we embrace the vision of martin luther king where children are not judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character the left is attempting to destroy that beautiful vision and divide americans by race in the service of political power by viewing every issue through the lens of race they want to impose a new segregation and we must not allow that to happen critical race theory the 1619 project and the crusade against american history is toxic propaganda ideological poison that if not removed will dissolve the civic bonds that tie us together will destroy our country that is why i recently banned trainings in this prejudiced ideology from the federal government and banned it in the strongest manner possible the only path to national unity is through our shared identity as americans that is why it is so urgent that we finally restore patriotic education to our schools under our leadership the national endowment for the humanities has awarded a grant to support the development of a pro-american curriculum that celebrates the truth about our nation's great history we are joined by some of the respected scholars involved in this project including professor wilford mcclay wilford please thank you very much thank you dr peter wood of the national association of scholars dr peter thank you thank you and ted rebarber thank you ted thank you very much today i'm also pleased to announce that i will soon sign an executive order establishing a national commission to promote patriotic education it will be called the 1776 commission  thank you it will encourage our educators to teach our children about the miracle of american history and make plans to honor the 250th anniversary of our founding think of that 250 years recently i also signed an executive order to establish the national garden of american heroes a vast outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest americans who have ever lived today i'm announcing a new name for inclusion one of the 56 signers of the declaration of independence was a patriot from delaware in july of 1776 the continental congress was deadlocked during the debate over independence the delegation from delaware was divided caesar rodney was called upon to break the tie even though he was suffering from very advanced cancer he was deathly ill rodney rode 80 miles through the night through a severe thunderstorm from dover to philadelphia to cast his vote for independence for nearly a century a statue of one of delaware's most beloved citizen stood in rodney square right in the heart of wilmington but this past june cesar rodney statue was ordered removed by the mayor and local politicians as part of a radical purge of america's founding generation today because of an order i signed if you demolish a statue without permission you immediately get 10 years in prison and there have been no statues demolished for the last four months incredibly since the time i signed that act joe biden said nothing as to his home state's history and the fact that it was dismantled and dismembered in a founding father's statue was removed today america will give this founding father this very brave man who was so horribly treated the place of honor he deserves i'm announcing that the statue of caesar rodney will be added to the national garden of american heroes from washington to lincoln from jefferson to king america has been home to some of the most incredible people who have ever lived the help of everyone here today the legacy of 1776 will never be erased our heroes will never be forgotten our youth will be taught to love america with all of their heart and all of their soul we will save this cherished inheritance for our children for their children and for every generation to come this is a very important day thank you all once again for being here now i will sign the constitution day proclamation god bless you and god bless america thank you very much  so  you
thank you very much everyone so a lot of work has been going on with respect to the vaccines very successful work i might add we have three great great companies doing somewhat different variations but they're all looking very good from the beginning of the china virus all nations have understood that our top priority must be to develop a vaccine as quickly as possible to end the pandemic and get life back to normal the successful vaccine will not only save millions of lives it will put an end to the restrictions and some of the things that go on and have to go on in the meantime today i want to discuss the historic progress we're making to deliver a safe and effective vaccine in record time and there's never been anything like this ever in our history there's never been an in history period world history since january america's brilliant doctors and scientists have been working around the clock these are the best medical minds in the world by far and the vaccines are going through the gold standard of clinical trials and very heavy emphasis placed on safety three vaccines are already in the final stage joe biden's anti-vaccine theories are putting a lot of lives at risk and they're only doing it for political reasons it's very foolish it's part of their war to try and discredit the vaccine now that they know that we essentially have it we'll be announcing it fairly soon as part of operation warp speed my administration is manufacturing all of the most promising vaccines in advance and actually it'll be fairly long in advance as soon as a vaccine is approved the administration will deliver it to the american people immediately distribution will begin within 24 hours after notice and the general i think those are the words specifically you wanted us to use within 24 hours you're all set to go and massive amounts will be delivered through our great military and the general is one of our best and he is ready to go we'll have manufactured at least 100 million vaccine doses before the end of the year and likely much more than that hundreds of millions of doses will be available every month and we expect to have enough vaccines for every american by april and uh again i'll say that even at that later stage the delivery will go as fast as it comes they can deliver they're very good best probably the best in the world the estimates i'm providing today are based on the manufacturing that's impressed we've already exceeded our ambitious goals under the defense production act contracts that we've secured we may even get far above these numbers and numbers that i'm telling you today i think will exceed them very very substantially and i think that also includes distribution i think distribution will go even quicker than most people think i'm relying on our military everything i've done with our military has worked out very well in a short time we'll have a safe and effective vaccine and will defeat the virus interestingly as i was saying that go very well just like uh what we did with our military with respect to isis went very well long ahead of schedule they have been incredible in working with me let's go to puerto rico because puerto rico's been hit very very hard by a lot of different storms and they're great people it's a great place i know it well great place today my administration is making the largest emergency relief award in history to rebuild puerto rico's electrical grid and educational system reporting billions distribution years ago this was beyond even the storms it was just age and a lot of the salt the salt from that ocean is a killer for electrical stations and power generation systems but on top of the salt you had these massive storms or hurricanes come in and maria in particular was a disaster but for many years they've been trying to get this done and have been had the political will power in washington to get it done so we're going to get it done for them we're also going to be bringing back very very major amounts of medical work you know we used to have pharmaceutic pharmaceutical manufacturing at levels that few places had and a lot of it's left puerto rico and we're going to bring that back especially now since our emphasis is going to be making our product so we're going to bring pharmaceutical manufacturing back to puerto rico a lot of it left over the years over a long period of time it's been leaving and going to china and other places so we're bringing all of that back this was done in previous administrations i'd like to just point out we've done more for puerto rico than anybody and this is just an example of it but we've done more for puerto rico by far than anybody we'll also be launching a major effort to repair and renovate the schools across the island following hurricane maria my administration immediately deployed the full power of the federal government to bring the electric grid back online so they could at least temporarily and it certainly wasn't a permanent fix it was ripped to shreds but a lot of that was ripped to shreds long before even the storm came in for many many years they've been trying to do it but we wanted to restore water supplies is medical distribution manufacturing for many years i think that's going to be very exciting for the people and we're undertaking the largest federal investment in puerto rico's history so you have a lot of i have a lot of friends in puerto rico and i've told them about it ask them about it conceptually what do you think and they're very excited i just want to say by contrast biden's devastated the island of puerto rico he joe biden what he's done to puerto rico meaning the past administration is is devastating a player in global pharmaceutical manufacturing that's what happened when biden voted to repeal this provision the pharmaceutical industry was ripped out of puerto rico all incentive to stay there was taken away and all of the jobs went to china and other places but mostly to china that's what happened this was done with a vote of biden this was even before the obama administration it was this was early on but so so sad that that was done and then obama came in and it got worse so for the people of puerto rico they were a disaster for you and i have to say in a very nice way a very respectful way i'm the best thing that ever happened to puerto rico nobody even close but as a result the island's economy under the previously mentioned names it just absolutely cratered biden's vote also left the united states at the mercy of foreign suppliers for essential medicines putting our national security and our health at risk we had a tremendous industry and our health at risk we had a tremendous industry potentially going to puerto rico and they just absolutely cut it short with bad votes and took all the incentive away and it went to other places far away lance so they really in a sense were voting to destroy puerto rico and we're bringing puerto rico back and we'll have it done fairly quickly and the 13 billion dollars is uh that's a tremendous that's a tremendous amount of money but it's a very important amount and i think you're going to see something terrific and it's very exciting to me what the most exciting is bringing the whole pharmaceutical industry back we've spoken to various companies and they're willing to go there they want to have a little bit of help but they're willing to go to puerto rico and puerto rico is going to be very exciting what's going to happen they were on the verge of doing it and they took away all the incentives i don't know how that was allowed to happen but they allowed it to happen that was very very bad for puerto rico and the people of puerto rico that was done by democrats and a republican is bringing it back so with that we can take a few questions and we are again very advanced on the vaccine we think that sometime in the very near future we'll have it where i would say i think i can say years ahead of schedule what it would be if it were an administration other than this one it would have been you would have been years before you ever had anything approved by the fda john please mr president this huge aid package to puerto rico why not a year ago why not two years ago why not three years ago why forty six days to the day because what we're doing is we've been working on it for a long time to get it passed very tough to get things past democrats where they don't want to see this happen and they probably certainly didn't want to see it happen at this point but it's a big package it's a great package and i think the most exciting part of the package isn't necessarily the billions of dollars it's going to be what we do with the pharmaceutical industry we're going to get them back into puerto rico they liked being there but they changed the tax situation they ripped it out so they really ripped apart the island and we're going to bring it back john it may be simply coincidental but it does coincide with the big push for puerto rican voters that the biden harris campaign yeah i think that's well they can't do anything look the biden harris campaign what they did they heard you know i've gone through it and whether it was president obama or vice president biden they were a disaster for puerto rico a disaster and what we're doing and what we've done but what we're doing is something that will be fantastic for many years in the future bringing back the pharma pharmaceutical industry manufacturing in puerto rico is what they've wanted for years and we're doing that in addition to the 13 billion dollars yes please mr president i think i heard you write saying that you said that there should you expect to have enough vaccines for every american by april so as we sit here in mid-september and there have been questions about the timeline can you walk us through now and the beginning of april to which every american can have a vaccination i think we may exceed those numbers even scott do you want to discuss that quickly sure as has been said many times okay and we have all the people that are involved in the actual vaccine distribution here but uh we were just going through this as of the end of the year we will have over a hundred million doses manufactured the people who are not prioritized list of including high risk including first responders will have the ability to take the vaccine no one's being mandated to be vaccinated at at the latest in january and as we said uh yesterday and or i think yesterday the there will be hundreds of millions of doses delivered for people to take it during the first quarter and so that by april every single american who wants to be vaccinated will have the ability to be vaccinated it's not a forced vaccination of course dr falchi said today basically echoed dr redfield's comments that q2 q3 some point the summer of next year the entire country potentially or at least as many americans that need to be vaccinated will be vaccinated is that the timeline next summer that's on the outer edge we think we can beat that number very substantially if you don't if you don't mind um the commerce department essentially gave you a runway today to strike a deal after the election do you expect a tick-tock deal before the election or after the election i think it could go quickly we have uh great companies talking to us about it you know about oracle you know microsoft has been involved and let's see whether or not they're continuing to be involved walmart is truly a great company they are very much involved they want to do something so we have some great options and maybe we can keep a lot of people happy but have the security that we need we have to have the total security from china we're just no we're not going to do anything to jeopardize security at the same time it's it's an amazing company very very popular so that we can do a combination of both i'd be very happy doing that could go very quickly that could go very very fast yeah please mr president go ahead chris thank you mr president um on kuwait so the ambassador to the kuwaiti ambassador to austria this week told the iaea that the kuwaiti government is very concerned over iran's constant breaching of the jcpoa in your discussions with the kuwaitis today have you discussed where they stand this week as we go into the u.n as the united states tries to extend sanctions on iran well they just left my office as you know the oval office and we had a very good meeting with the emir and i think we understand each other very well they're very excited about a lot of things that are happening in the middle east they they are so excited that we signed the first two countries and i think they'll end up fairly quickly being a part of it i have i would say seven or eight countries that want to be a part of it without even working uh very easily very quickly nobody thought this would happen and not only is it happening it's happening rather easily we discuss that very briefly because that's that's an easy one believe it or not that whole thing is now a beautiful puzzle that's coming together very nicely uh but we are uh talking to them and others about various aspects of the middle east the middle east is straightening out with all that's happening you know we've brought a lot of our troops back a lot of them are coming back in the very near future we're out of syria other than we kept the oil i kept the oil and we have troops guarding the oil other than that we're out of syria we took them off the border between syria and turkey we had a lot of troops on the border ultimately we got it down to 50 and i thought they were in great danger when you have two armies sitting there looking to fight and you have 50 people in the middle i don't care who you are even if the you're the u.s those 50 people are in great danger we took them out but we had a lot of troops on the border and we took them out i said look they've been fighting on their border for 200 years and a lot longer than that under different names and they can continue to do that that's not for us we're guarding our own borders we're doing very well on our southern border as an example so we're out of syria except we kept the oil and we'll make a determination we'll probably be dealing with the kurds on the oil and see what it all ends up but we'll be out and uh very importantly uh we're down to very few soldiers in iraq and uh we're down we'll be down very shortly over the next couple of weeks to 4 000 less than 4 000 in afghanistan and then we'll make that final determination a little bit later and we're dealing very well with the taliban they're very tough they're very smart they're very sharp but you know it's been 19 years and even they are tired of fighting in all fairness and we really served as a police force because if we wanted to do what we had to do we would have fought a lot differently than they have over their 19 years they didn't fight it properly they were they were police okay they're not police they're they're soldiers so there's a difference the police nobody has more respect for police than i do but they have to do their own policing so we're having some very good discussions with the taliban as you probably heard it's been public and but we'll be down to very shortly we'll be down to less than 4 000 soldiers and so we'll be out of there knowing that certain things have to happen certain things have to be fulfilled but 19 years is a long time 8 000 miles away 19 years is a long time and the middle east the whole middle east equation if you look at what's happened if you've looked at the stupidity of decisions that were made including the deal that was made i mean take a look at what happened with iran had that deal stayed i had not broken that deal you could have never done the deal that i'm doing now where all the countries are pouring in and i had two calls this morning with countries that want to know when can we go into the deal they want to go it's not that we're giving anything they want security they want peace and they're really tired of fighting it's incredible they're tired of fighting they've been fighting for so many years they're tired of fighting thank you very much mr president mr president a question on the vaccine but first uh on puerto rico i i heard you many times over the past couple of years saying that puerto rico got too much money i mean just last year you said uh puerto rico is one of the most corrupt places on earth we'll talk about how congress they have money you said never again you said congress gave too much money to puerto rico why now we're building that up as a great medical pharmaceutical manufacturing area where you know we're going to be taking back a lot of the business that we let go for years and we'll bring we're going to bring it back they were very good at it they did a fantastic job but they destroyed it with their tax policy they made it impossible for people to stay so people went to china mostly into other countries puerto rico has been very corrupt in terms of its politicians you see that they're one after another it's been unbelievably corrupt and we're studying that and working on that and we think we have a good group of people who are working very well with the politicians right now but i think more exciting than the then the dollars and you have to do something with respect to their grid their grid is a disaster their generators are wiped out and they've been wiped out for years long before maria came they've been wiped out for years so if we can build puerto rico back into a pharmaceutical manufacturing area we're going to designate it as such i think it'll be unbelievable for puerto rico unbelievable for the people of puerto rico and we can make it very successful in a larger question on the vaccine and on on other issues regarding the experts in your government uh last night you uh you criticized what christopher wray told congress your fbi director you obviously said that the cdc director was flat wrong on a couple of things this week how is it that uh you don't trust your own experts do you do do you think you know better no i think i think i have yeah in many cases i do uh i think we have a bigger problem with china than we have with russia i think china is a far bigger problem and i said well that's okay if you want to think about russia but what about china uh i think that's appropriate i thought that the definition of antifa was an absolutely incorrect definition so i speak up i like to speak up i have fantastic people that's why we're able to make these great trade deals that's why we're able to do things like we're doing today that's why the country has done so well the country's done numbers like nobody had we not had the china plague come in if the if that virus didn't come in the plague i call it the plague from china didn't come in the numbers we had were were not only record records they were beyond anything anyone's ever seen in any country frankly now we closed it up and now we're opening it up and by the way the democrats ought to open up their states and they go to open them up fast john the faster the better because they're hurting their people a lot of damage done with these extended shutdowns but we saved millions of lives by doing it the way we did it and now we're opening it up and you see the kind of numbers the manufacturing numbers see the retail numbers you look at the employment numbers they're setting records it's an incredible thing that's happening had the plague nut come in we would have been right now at a level that nobody's ever seen before nobody's ever seen but even before it was at the highest stock market best unemployment numbers and employment numbers were up to 160 million people just short of 160 million people employed we were never close to a number like that and now we're doing it again and next year we will have a great economic year i think one of our best the postal service had planned on sending 650 million face masks to americans back in april that never happened uh why not and was it because i don't know i don't run it to be honest let's run as you know that's run by a commission and they run it i think frankly if they would raise the price of packaging you'd end up making a lot of money or breaking even or doing something the post office has been a mess for many many generations but for certainly decades and it loses a lot of money it's always lost a lot of money and one of the reasons it loses a lot of money now is that it's delivering all these packages and every time they deliver a package they lose three dollars a package or whatever the number may be so i would suggest that they raise the price of packages and you might get something where it loses very little or maybe broke even or maybe even made some money would can you imagine a thing like that and whether it's amazon or any of the other internet delivery services if you did that you'd have a whole different post office so hopefully they'll be doing that in the meantime i know so many people in the postal system and i've known them over the years they're incredible people and they're very secure they're going to be very secure you know the problem they have with the ballots not the post office the problem they have with the ballots is the people sending the ballots and the people counting the ballots and who are they sending them to where are they being sent are they being sent to the wrong areas are they not being sent at all there'll be tremendous corruption if they don't do something about it now one big hope is that we're in front of numerous federal judges in nevada we're in front in pennsylvania as you know we're in front in uh michigan we have numerous court cases out there that are very well advanced and you'll start seeing decisions just like we won the case on opening up pennsylvania that was a great decision by a judge that came down two days ago and that was a very important decision so but we have a lot of very important decisions coming down on this on the scam of unsolicited ballots where they're sending out tens of millions of ballots to everybody people that didn't expect them people are getting inundated with they'll be showered with ballots everybody in this room knows it's a scam okay everybody in this room even john don't say it john because it's a scam sending ballots sending ballots at a level they are never going to be able to count them let me ask you people in the white house when you solicit when you go out it's called absentee or solicit when you go out and you request a ballot you want to say i want to vote because i can't be in florida or i can't be someplace your request so you're sending something in it's handled professionally they send it back it's a whole thing that's much different than unsolicited when you get millions of ballots i heard numbers like 80 million ballots now just this week they had another one another one of the disasters that took place an election but look at what happened in new jersey and they had another one in new jersey very very bad different than patterson look at what happened in new york with carolyn uh your congressman murphy maloney carolyn maloney look at that i mean look at that race carolyn maloney had a race it was a disaster ballots are missing ballots are fraught these are small races easy to look at what happened in virginia look at what happened at various other parts of the country even over the last short period of war and these aren't 80 million or 50 million or 20 million votes these are small elections these are congressional elections where in theory it's easy so what's going to happen on november 3rd when somebody's leading and they said well we haven't counted the ballots we have millions of ballots to count it's a disaster everyone knows it everyone knows it's a disaster and i don't expect people here to say although some people will some people would say it everyone knows you don't even have to know politics to know and this has nothing to do with post office by the way where are these ballots going who's sending them who's signing them you have in nevada you have a governor that signs something where he doesn't want verification of the signature so what does that mean so he doesn't even want verification of the signature so i think it's going to be a terrible time for this country and we're counting on federal judges to do a great constitutional job when they are they're right now analyzing it many many federal judges when they like i think five or six but many federal judges i can tell you in pennsylvania big in nevada very big i believe it's in front of a judge in michigan we have a lot of judges have not yet ruled on this but uh if it's ruled in a different manner or it's ruled where uh these millions and millions of unsolicited people that aren't even asking there's such a difference you write in you ask they send it to you you sign it you send it back that's perfect that's absentee there's nothing like going to the voter booth by the way nothing where they check you as you go in there's nothing like that but that's absentee that's okay but the scam of sending millions and millions of bills and you know who knows this better than i do the democrats they know it's going to be a mess they know it's going to they're going to be millions of missing ballots or tremendous numbers of missing ballots you could be talking about large percentages of these ballots are going to be missing there's going to be fraud it's a disaster and everybody and it'll be a lot easier for me not to bring it up but everybody knows i'm right and you don't have to know a lot about elections you don't have to know a lot about politics this is going to be the scam of all time and hopefully the federal judges all respected all highly respected hopefully they'll be able to see this clearly and stop it okay thank you very much everybody so i want to congratulate puerto rico and i think you're going to have a great period of time i think you're going to see a rebuilding of puerto rico thank you very much
uh all right thank you oh you're gonna get a warning right no warning so oh sure requests yes sir so all right no updates is um um frank good evening to you we're expecting the president in the next few minutes here we are expecting him to comment on the charges of the brianna taylor case and the violence that we're seeing gripping the streets of louisville the president was asked about it earlier today in the cabinet room but hadn't been briefed up enough on it to feel comfortable commenting on it the president also expected to be asked this evening about his looming pick for the supreme court earlier today the president pointing to his favorite boogeyman mail in voting is a reason to quickly return the supreme court to its full strength and president trump trump might get some more love from hispanics if he were to nominate barbara lagoa from the 11th circuit court of appeals to fill the seat vacated by ruth bader ginsburg with only a year's worth of experience on the federal bench there are concerns among some people that legoa's judicial record is a little thin so for the moment brett tonight jamie coney barrett remains the front runner okay uh um um okay yeah two minute warning is i tell you what sorry hello thank you very much thank you today johnson and johnson announced that their vaccine candidate has reached the final stage of clinical trials this is record time this is the fourth vaccine candidate in the united states to reach the final stage of trial so we have four candidates already at a very late date late being a very positive word in this case earlier this year johnson and johnson anticipated that they would reach phase one trials by september but due to our support under operation warp speed and to some of the incredible scientists involved they've reached phase three trials by september far ahead of schedule we encourage americans to enroll in the vaccine trial it's not only interesting it'll be a terrific thing for our country we encourage everybody to enroll as many people as we can today my administration announced that we are awarding 200 million dollars of cares act funding to all 50 states to prepare to distribute the vaccine to high-risk residents and we want to do that the instant it is approved not the following day but the following moment and so we're going to be doing that and we'll be distributing getting it ready because we have some great vaccines going to be coming out through operation warp speed we also continue to accelerate life-saving therapies we are seeing promising results that are monoclonal antibody treatments which help the immune system fight the virus and help very significantly refining can reduce hospitalizations now by more than 70 percent by cutting red tape and unleashing america's medical genius we've reduced the fatality rate 85 percent since april for individuals under 50 they've they have a 99.98 rate of survival from the china virus that's a number that's been in really increasing substantially with time as children go back to school we're encouraged that early research shows only a small degree of spread brown university conducted a study of more than 550 schools across 46 states and found that only .076 percent of students had confirmed cases of the virus that's a tiny percentage and only .15 of teachers had confirmed cases patients coming to the emergency room due to the virus is down to only 1.6 percent of all emergency room visits the lowest since the pandemic began 1.6 percent emergency room visits as far as protecting the vulnerable is concerned we provided over 21 billion dollars to our nursing homes and we are really focused on the nursing homes everybody and including our governors we have governors are working very closely with the task force and with the vice president and everybody involved we've sent rapid testing devices to nearly fourteen thousand certified nursing homes in the country this week we're sending hundreds of thousands of additional rapid tests to nursing homes to ensure they can test staff regularly and the staff now is being tested on a very very powerful and uh on a regular basis but uh very strongly at the finest level the highest level on the best tests we're encouraged that the number of americans getting the flu vaccine is increasing by roughly 50 compared to last year substantially up uh the flu when it's mixed with covid or china virus is uh going to be very interesting to see what happens but that can drive numbers and we just don't know what that will be yet but you'll have flu numbers and you'll have some covet numbers i think we're rounding the turn very much you see what's happening in europe however they have a very big spike countries that we thought were doing well aren't doing well they had some very big spikes very a very big surge months ago we increased our nation's procurement of the flu vaccine by 66 percent and we ask americans to go get their annual flu shot as early as possible uh it's possible i would imagine scott that the flu can get mixed up with the virus and people can think it's the virus when actually it's another flu season coming on i don't know it's uh i hope they can keep them separate can they keep them separate i hope so i definitely will it's going to be a very interesting time but we have a flu season coming up we've had some flu seasons which are really massive over the years over many years and we have some that are much less so but it's still significant so i hope they can separate them because it's it's pretty close in the past four months we've created 10.6 million jobs we cut unemployment rate nearly in half the unemployment rate is cut nearly in half larry kudlow is here he'll be discussing that in a little while retail sales are up 121 percent that's far above what we thought manufacturing is up 61 that's above also above our schedule and our schedule is a heavy schedule automobile production is up six-fold homebuilders sentiment is at the highest level in history that's an amazing statement larry the highest level in history that means people are thinking good thoughts home sales are at the highest level in nearly 15 years small business optimism is higher than any time under the last administration substantially higher small business optimism higher than at any time over the last more than the last administration today i was proud to award nine companies and organizations with the first ever pledge to america's workers presidential award this award recognizes outstanding training programs that are giving americans the skills to hone a trade and earn a great living great people over 5 400 companies have competed and committed to 16 million training opportunities for the american worker and it's really been amazing we've created the fastest economic recovery in american history you are witnessing it you're part of it our approach is pro-science biden's approach is anti-science if you look it's i don't think they know what their approach is although a lot of us copied from what we've done biden opposed the china travel ban and the europe travel ban and the strategy that they have is just never ending lockdowns we're not locking down we're actually growing at a rate that we've never experienced before but they're talking about if you have a question just lock it down we're not doing that and you can't do that our plan will crush the virus and actually uh biden's plan will crush america if you think about it you can't lock down again we're growing at levels that nobody's ever seen before our plan is unleashing a rapid recovery our opponent's plan would hurt america very badly send us into a depression and with all of that being said we are going to be having a very exciting saturday at five o'clock in the rose garden where i'll be putting forth my nominee for supreme court justice and i think it will be a a great nominee a brilliant nominee as you know it's a woman we've brought it down to five women it's time for a woman to uh to be chosen with everything that's happened and with justice ginsburg's passing we are uh going to go sometime tomorrow morning as i understand it to pay our respects and we'll be over there and i guess they probably put that announcement down but that will be done tomorrow morning the vice president was there today and so if you have any questions we'll take a few questions right here mr president uh real quickly when loser draw in this election will you commit here today for a peaceful trans referral of power after the election and there has been rioting in louisville there's been rioting in many cities across this country red and your so-called red and blue states will you commit to making sure that there is a peaceful transferal of power after the election well we're gonna have to see what happens you know that i've been complaining very strongly about the ballots and the ballots are a disaster and but people are rioting do you commit to making sure that there's a peaceful transfer we want to have get rid of the ballots and you'll have a very trans we'll have a very peaceful there won't be a transfer frankly there'll be a continuation the ballots are out of control you know it and you know who knows it better than anybody else the democrats know it better than anybody else go ahead the second question is will you please go ahead why won't you you ask me a question do you go after the russians say it mr president do you plan to meet with barbara lagoa at the white house do you you i cannot hear you with three yes i'm sorry uh do you plan to meet with barbara lego in washington and is she still on your shortlist she is on my list i don't have a meeting planned but she is on my list uh do you have i don't really talk about the meetings planned i i speak to people i talk to people but i don't have a meeting planned now do you have a response to the governor of missouri testing positive for coronavirus i didn't know that no yeah mr president um we asked you earlier today about uh the brianna taylor case yes could you comment now i assume you've been briefed on the charges in the book well i thought it was uh really brilliant kentucky attorney general daniel cameron is doing a fantastic job i think he's a star and he made a statement that i'll just read justice not justice is not often easy it does not fit the mold of public opinion and it does not conform to shifting standards it answers only to the facts and to the law if we simply act on emotion or outrage there's no justice mob justice is not justice justice sort by violence is not justice it just becomes revenge i mean i i heard that i said write that down for me please because i think it's it was a terrific statement he's handling it very well you know who he is right you i think you know i think everyone now knows who he is i will be speaking to the governor and we have a call scheduled to make very shortly with the governor i understand he's called up the national guard which is a good thing i think it's a very positive thing and it'll all work out can i just follow on your supreme court nominee um it's highly unlikely that any democrats will vote for your nominee if it when it comes to a vote in the senate i think that's a pretty safe assumption but on that point would you want to nominate someone who in their confirmation to the appellate court received broad bipartisan support or would you be more inclined to put forward somebody whose confirmation fell along party lines i can't tell you what's going to happen with the democrats i can say this the person that i will be putting up and i won't say that i've even chosen that person yet i could say any one of the five they're outstanding women but the person i'll be putting up is highly qualified totally brilliant top of the line academic student the highest credentials all of them have that but the highest credentials and you'll see on saturday who that is i can't imagine why a democrat wouldn't vote for this person yeah please go ahead thank you very much no not you you're right here thank you mr president uh prince harry and meghan markle uh chimed in on the us election and essentially encouraged people to vote for joe biden let me get your reaction to that i'm not a fan of hers and uh i would say this and she probably has heard that but i wish a lot of luck to harry because he's going to need it mr president the fda is reportedly considering stricter guidelines for the emergency authorization of a coveted vaccine are you okay with that well i'd say what we're looking at that that has to be approved by the white house we may or may not approve it that sounds like a political move because when you have pfizer johnson and johnson modern are these great companies coming up with these the vaccines and they've done testing and everything else i'm saying why would they have to be you know adding great length to the process we want to have people not get sick the vaccine is very important it's the final step i believe it's going to be the final step and no we're looking at that but i think it's a i think that was a political move more than anything else on that sir it's designed to improve trust in the vaccine do you think that's not needed well i have tremendous trust in these massive companies that are so brilliantly organized in terms of what they've been doing with the tests i mean i don't know that a government as big as we are could do tests like this we've made it possible for them to do the tests in rapid fashion but when they come back and they say that we have something that works and absolutely works and they're coming back with great numbers and statistics and tests and everything else that they have to come back with i don't see any reason why it should be delayed further because if they delete delay in a week or two weeks or three weeks you know that's a lot of lives you're talking about scott would you agree with that or how do you feel about that yeah thanks um yeah i mean there is no i think that people don't understand what's going on with operation warp speed it's unprecedented what's happened here a typical vaccine takes roughly four years or so and now we're going to have a vaccine highly likely in in far less than one year but without cutting any safety corners because the president has done things concomitant to the development of the vaccine that is the manufacturing the logistics everything is being done at the same time and that's never been done before but there is zero cutting of safety concerns there is there should be no uh hesitation about the safety you shouldn't be punished by doing something faster than other people could have done or thought it's the opposite we have a pandemic the urgency is the pandemic not politics are you sounding extremely political why would they do this when we come back with these great results and i think you will have those questions why would we why would we be delaying it but we're going to look at it we're going to take a look at it and ultimately the white house has to approve it and maybe we will and maybe we won't but we'll be taking a look i have to leave for an emergency phone call i'm going to let scott and larry finish it larry's going to talk about it so i'll be uh i'll be back i will see you tomorrow a big day just one more question on brianna taylor we're in a time right now where americans feel like we are on people are protesting in the streets what is your message to them people feel like we are on this carousel where another black lives matter so here we have dr scott atlas and larry kudlow um i encourage you all to be respectful and show a little bit of decorum here as they take your questions yes can you uh clarify for us uh your views on the impact of the virus spreading in the communities reporting that maybe you favor or have talked about or looked at some sort of heard immunity strategy you said to fox in july that when younger healthier people get the disease they don't have a problem with the disease low risk troops getting the infection is not a problem in fact it's a positive can you say what you meant by that is does that indicate that oh sure spreading sort of among younger folks who are less susceptible i think i've answered this multiple times but i have never advocated a herd immunity strategy there's never been a desire to have cases spread through the community that's a false story i've denied that multiple times and i just don't that false story doesn't seem to die but that's the fact and the description of immunity coming when people get an infection is not something i'm inventing that but that has never been a policy that i have advocated there has never been a policy uh recommendation to pursue that to the president and that is not the president's policy 60 000 cases yesterday do you have any sense or does the task force have any sense of what is driving that that's the highest level in six weeks why are we still seeing cases at this level yeah well i mean there are several things to look at but the case metric is not the most important metric the most important metric are the following hospitalizations per day are coming down deaths per day are coming down number of people in the hospital is 47 percent lower than it was since its peak the number of people sick with coveted illness coming to the emergency room is 1.6 percent as the president said the lowest number since the pandemic began all of these trends are positive the cases per se are defined by tests if i tested a million people i would see more cases the only thing that counts are the the the problems with the cases so when we see that hospitalizations per day are coming down people are not dying as much these are all very positive trends and that's exactly what we want to see go ahead dr dr atlas is there any bad blood between you and dr deborah burks no i saw the story in uh really a super journalism story uh dr burks speaks for herself but that that's a completely false story and she denied it today it's completely false when do you expect a vaccine yeah so this is a very important uh question the the vaccine is proceeding at an extremely rapid pace as we know everything's being done simultaneously so that the logistics and the uh technology in place to deliver it is ready to go as everyone knows and it depends on the data okay the the data is being monitored by an external group of experts called the data data safety monitoring board and when we have enough cases that when they see enough cases that have shown a statistically significant difference they will tell the company and then the company will say look at it and say yes we have it and we think that that has a good chance of happening in october it's kind of just that i follow you did say that last week in this room pretty much the same thing but you said it could be the truth yeah i understand but i want to clear it up because you said it could be as late as january it could be after the election that there's no clear-cut time and that's what i want to make sure that that you're saying this is the current thinking that i have been told i'm not in charge of the vaccine development i'm relaying information and what i've been told is exactly what i said and there will be a hundred million plus doses available by the end of this year it is highly likely we will have a vaccine before the end of the year and it is also likely that we will say the data is good we have the vaccine and then it will be submitted of course for approval and authorization sometime in october but it depends on the on the data no one can really say with certainty when it's coming that's just impossible i don't see the data until the data happens dr redfield today said that more than 90 of the population remains susceptible to coronavirus do you agree with that assessment yeah i think that dr reckfield uh misstated something there and the reason last time i'm gonna answer your question let me finish uh the the data on susceptible that he was talking about was his uh surveillance data that showed that roughly nine percent of the country has antibodies but when you look at the cdc data state by state much of that data is old some of it goes back to march or april before many of these states have the cases that's point number one point number two is that the immunity to the infection is not solely determined by the percent of people who have antibodies if you look at the research and there's been about 24 papers at least on the immunity from t cells this is different type of immunity than antibodies and without being boring the reality is that according to the papers from sweden singapore and elsewhere there is cross immunity highly likely from other infections and there is also t cell immunity and the combination of those makes the antibodies a small fraction of the people that have immunity so the answer is no it is not 90 of people that are susceptible to the infection so i guess my question is for i'm not a doctor i defer to your expertise on this end to his but so americans hear one thing from the cdc director and another thing from you who are we to to believe you're supposed to believe the science and i'm telling you the science so he's not telling us i'm telling you the science and that's the answer and if you want to look up all the data you're free to you can also talk to the following epidemiologist why is he still going out before congress and speaking if you say he's mistaken today and the president said he mistaked it last time americans are looking for the best information right now yeah and i'm giving you the best information and it's confirmed by people like martin koldorf who's a harvard epidemiologist at harvard medical school let me finish please jay bhattacharya and johnny anitis both epidemiologists at stanford professor gupta university of oxford these are people who know the latest data on the immunology and what's happening and i just recited it to you i'm gonna give scott a little time off i'm just to give scott a little time off i want to reinforce some of the things that president trump said about the economy because that's very much a key part of the story we got some new numbers out late last week and this week and i wanted to underscore that if we can get the charts back up i want to show you some more examples of the d-shaped recovery i actually i i can jump in here this is from the census bureau report a change in the number of people living in poverty during president trump's first three years pre-pandemic 6.6 million fewer people 6.6 million fewer people were living in poverty what's the number of postponements and the um what's the number postpendant well we'll have to wait and see on that just nothing more let me go to the uh under the obama uh years 787 000 people uh moved into poverty so that's a problem and we have the second chart isn't that an old target yeah no this is a brand new this stuff just came out lately right now if i if i may okay i just like accurate information this is the accurate information this is from the sentence and it just came back well let me just go back into this three years into president trump's uh presidency under his policies real family income is probably the best measure of living standards there is real median household income grew by six thousand over six thousand dollars that is five times the rate of the eight years of the obama administration i hear people ask me legitimate questions i respect that this is some kind of has been a k-shaped recovery where only the wealthy did well and the bottom did not do well in fact this is the middle real family income and i will add to that not only was this five times higher but the biggest gains came in the lower income levels significantly higher than the top one percent uh or the top uh 10 now let me hit another chart put this up uh see where we're sort of doing this by field go ahead more charts there we go back to the v-shaped recovery you've heard me speak about this i just want to underscore we got new production numbers uh this week this is a v-shaped recovery in automobiles a key sector of the economy and we had additional numbers on housing that i'd like to show confirming the v-shaped uh recovery housing housing there we go we're at an all-time high in home builder sentiment all right very important leading indicator a clear v-shape recovery and if anything it's strengthening and finally i think the last chart is on existing home sales here it is their highest reading in 14 years so i just want to say we have more work to do with respect to the um to the recovery and return to economic health we have more work to do there is still hardship and there is still heartbreak you know but the numbers coming in how many americans are living in poverty right now actually that won't be i can only wait until the census bureau i don't know if you cover this beat a number of americans living in poverty right now do you happen to know the answer uh no because we're getting them you don't know i will wait you're an economic advisor right if you'll just stop nitpicking and let me explain these history numbers well you should have a history lesson too it will help you understand but i'm going to say to you these are census bureau numbers the most accurate comprehensive they are not out yet so i'm giving you the ones that were released late last week they're the most up-to-date numbers and under the president's policies of lower taxes and regulations and energy independence and better trade deals we've had a phenomenal increase in living standards five times what the prior administration had for eight years and we're proud of that and this is a topic that will come up again and again second point i want to make is while living standards went up poverty went down and inequality went down so the notion that under president trump only the top end benefit is simply not true these are facts from the census bureau and they are backed up by many other facts that we've talked about as i've discussed with those of you and then finally the v-shape recovery we've got more work to do on unemployment and employment no question about that i think this is a self-sustaining recovery as i've said we would welcome some additional assistance in targeted areas particularly getting back to school and working on covert related safety precautions and health precautions we'd love to see an extension of the small business loans the ppp program but the recovery itself continues to move ahead nicely we're in the right direction and this is no time to change policies yes ma'am go ahead did you comment on a pending stock deal that's going to be taking place in ipo in the hong kong stock exchanges and technology group they could raise as much as 40 billion dollars potentially the largest ipo in history there have been a lot of security national security concerns a lot of human rights concerns about the technology used potentially to suppress the uyghur people what is the administration's position on the ant technology group ipo i'm going to reserve comment on the deal itself but i will add to your question we are examining all these deals and publicly held companies china-based companies that may list on our exchanges we are examining them with respect to transparency possible fraudulent accounting this comes from a financial working group report and we've given them one year to shape up and get their books in order including their backdrop books their supporting papers to prove to the public accounting board and the sec that they are safe for american investors with whole comment on that particularly yes today in california the governor issued an executive order designed to move the state to the point where there will be no gas powered vehicles sold by 2035. what do you make of this move that's taking place in california do you expect it to to spread around the country what are the uh the economic ramifications i don't expect it to spread with respect to governor newsom whom i know it just seems like a very extreme position i don't know how you get there i'll have a look at the proposal if there's more detail meet on the bones i don't see this happening elsewhere i don't think we should be taking any steps to get rid of fossil fuels for example and by the way there should be consumer choice for all automobiles and that includes electric automobiles but i'd have to look at the governor's proposal um it just sounds very extreme to me i don't know how you do it larry do you think that the fight now over the supreme court nominee is going to have a major impact on the possibility to get ppp extended and what impact will that have on the economy if for example aid for airlines does not get extended in october you know it it doesn't have to interfere i mean you can walk and chew gum at the same time they operate on different lanes legislatively so i guess that's my take we would like very much to help the airlines we've told them that you can't run a healthy economy without the airline channel and we'll see what has to be done there with respect to possible legislation or even possibly with respect to executive administrative action we will take a look on that again you've heard me say i don't think this recovery right now is dependent on an additional assistance package but there are a number of targeted areas in that package including airlines most particularly small business loans and getting back to school that i think would be a big help and i just don't see if you can have agreement on four or five or six measures which is what's been happening even though you don't get the whole deal why not do it it'll help americans uh move ahead in terms of the recovery last one do you think that we need another broad stimulus package or do you think i think do we think do you think the us needs another broad stimulus package or do you favor sort of a la carte type measures like on airlines for instance yeah i think i would say to you sensible efficient targeted measures might be very helpful i don't think we need another gigantic multi-trillion dollar package and as i say you know the latest numbers coming in are looking very good the v-shape recovery i mean the atlanta fed gdp now model is showing over 30 percent growth in the third quarter uh the blue chip forecasters are well over 20 percent uh our view has been 20 plus uh we'll see we'll get that number uh in due course um i'm just saying let's be smart about some of these assistance measures thank you for doing everything haley has the president spoken to the family of rihanna taylor is you
"How are you doing? How are you? So as you know, 2.2 million people modeled out, were expected to die. We closed up the greatest economy in the world in order to fight this horrible disease that came from China. It's a worldwide pandemic. It's all over the world. You see the spikes in Europe and many other places right now. If you notice, the mortality rate is down 85%. The excess mortality rate is way down and much lower than almost any other country. And we're fighting it and we're fighting it hard. There is a spike. There was a spike in Florida and it's now gone. There was a very big spike in Texas. It's now gone. There was a very big spike in Arizona. It's now gone. And there was some spikes and surges and other places, they will soon be gone. We have a vaccine that's coming. It's ready. It's going to be announced within weeks. And it's going to be delivered. We have Operation Warp Speed, which is the military is going to distribute the vaccine. I can tell you from personal experience, I was in the hospital. I had it and I got better. And I will tell you that I had something that they gave me, a therapeutic, I guess they would call it. Some people could say it was a cure, but I was in for a short period of time. And I got better very fast or I wouldn't be here tonight. And now they say I'm immune. Whether it's four months or a lifetime, nobody's been able to say that, but I'm immune. More and more people are getting better. We have a problem that's a worldwide problem. This is a worldwide problem, but I've been congratulated by the heads of many countries on what we've been able to do. If you take a look at what we've done in terms of goggles and masks and gowns and everything else, and in particular ventilators we're now making ventilators all over the world, thousands and thousands a month distributing them all over the world. It will go away. And as I say, we're rounding the turn. We're rounding the corner. It's going away. No, it's not a guarantee, but it will be by the end of the year. But I think it has a good chance. There are two companies, I think within a matter of weeks and it will be distributed very quickly. Johnson & Johnson is doing very well. Moderna is doing very well. Pfizer is doing very well and we have numerous others. Then we also have others that we're working on very closely with other countries, in particular Europe. No, I think my timeline is going to be more accurate. I don't know that they're counting on the military the way I do, but we have our generals lined up, one in particular that's the head of logistics and this is a very easy distribution for him. He's ready to go. As soon as we have the vaccine and we expect to have a 100 million vials. As soon as we have the vaccine, he's ready to go. I don't think we're going to have a dark winter at all. We're opening up our country. We've learned and studied and understand the disease, which we didn't at the beginning. When I closed and banned China from coming in heavily infected and then ultimately Europe, but China was in January. Months later, he was saying I was xenophobic. I did it too soon. Now he's saying, ""Oh, I should have moved quicker,"" but he didn't move quicker. He was months behind me, many months behind me. And frankly, he ran the H1N1 swine flu and it was a total disaster. Far less lethal, but it was a total disaster. Had that had this kind of numbers, 700,000 people would be dead right now, but it was a far less lethal disease. Look, his own person who ran that for him, who, as you know, was his chief of staff said, ""It was catastrophic. It was horrible. We didn't know what we were doing."" Now he comes up and he tells us how to do this. Also, everything that he said about the way every single move that he said we should make, that's what we've done. We've done all of it. But he was way behind us. I didn't say over soon. I say we're learning to live with it. We have no choice. We can't lock ourselves up in a basement like Joe does. He has the ability to lock himself up. I don't know. He's obviously made a lot of money someplace, but he has this thing about living in a basement. People can't do that. By the way I as the president couldn't do that. I'd love to put myself in the basement or in a beautiful room in the White House and go away for a year and a half until it disappears. I can't do that. And Kirsten, every meeting I had, every meeting I had and I'd meet a lot of families, including gold star families and military families. Every meeting I had and I had to meet them, I had to. It would be horrible to have canceled everything. I said, ""This is dangerous and you catch it."" And I caught it. I learned a lot. I learned a lot. Great doctors, great hospitals. And now I recovered. 99.9 of young people recover. 99% of people recover. We have to recover- 99% of people recover. We have to recover. We can't close up our nation. We have to open our school and we can't close up our nation, or you're not going to have a nation. Excuse me. I take full responsibility. It's not my fault that it came here. It's China's fault. And you know what? It's not Joe's fault that it came here either. It's China's fault. They kept it from going into the rest of China for the most part, but they didn't keep it from coming out to the world, including Europe and ourselves. Look, perhaps just to finish this, I was kidding on that, but just to finish this, when I closed he said I shouldn't have closed. And that went on for months. Nancy Pelosi said the same thing. She was dancing on the streets in Chinatown, in San Francisco. But when I closed, he said, ""This is a terrible thing, you xenophobic."" I think he called me racist even, because I was closing it to China. Now he says I should have closed it earlier. Joe, it doesn't. You certainly did. You certainly did. He thought I shouldn't have closed the border, that's obvious. I think we have to respond, if I might. Thank you, and I appreciate that. Look, all he does is talk about shut downs. But forget about him. His Democrat Governors, Cuomo in New York, you look at what's going on in California, you look at Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Democrats, Democrats all, they're shut down so tight and they're dying. They're dying. And he supports all these people. All he talks about is shut downs. No, we're not going to shut down. And we have to open our schools. And it's like, as an example, I have a young son, he also tested positive. By the time I spoke to the doctor the second time, he was fine. It just went away. Young people, I guess, it's their immune system. I want to open the schools. The transmittal rate to the teachers is very small. But I want to open the schools. We have to open our country. We're not going to have a country. You can't do this. We can't keep this country closed. This is a massive country with a massive economy. People are losing their jobs. They're committing suicide. There's depression, alcohol, drugs at a level that nobody's ever seen before. There's abuse, tremendous abuse. We have to open our country. I've said it often, the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself, and that's what's happening. And he wants to close down. He'll close down the country if one person in our massive bureaucracy says we should close it down. By the way, I will say this, If you go and look at what's happened to New York, it's a ghost town. It's a ghost town. And when you talk about plexiglass, these are restaurants that had dying. These are businesses with no money. Putting up plexiglass is unbelievably expensive, and it's not the answer. I mean, you're going to sit there in a cubicle wrapped around with plastic. These are businesses that are dying, Joe. You can't do that to people. You just can't. Take a look at New York and what's happened to my wonderful city. For so many years, I loved it. It was vibrant. It's dying. Everyone's leaving New York. Kristen, New York has lost more than 40,000 people, 11,000 people in nursing homes. When you say spike, take a look at what's happening in Pennsylvania where they've had it closed. Take a look at what's happening with your friend in Michigan, where her husband's the only one allowed to do anything. It's been like a prison. Now, it was just ruled unconstitutional. Take a look at North Carolina, they're having spikes and they've been closed, and they're getting killed financially. We can't let that happen, Joe. You can't let that happen. We have to open up. And we understand the disease. We have to protect our seniors. We have to protect our elderly. We have to protect especially our seniors with heart problems and diabetes problems. And we will protect. We have the best testing in the world by far. That's why we have so many cases. I'm listening to all of them, including Anthony. I get along very well with Anthony. ... think to all of them, including Anthony. I get along very well with Anthony, but he did say, ""Don't wear masks."" He did say, as you know, ""This is not going to be a problem."" I think he's a Democrat, but that's okay. He said, ""This is not going to be a problem. We are not going to have a problem at all."" When Joe says that I said, Anthony Fauci said, and others, and many others. And I'm not knocking him, nobody knew. Look, nobody knew what this thing was. Nobody knew where it was coming from, what it was. We've learned a lot. But Anthony said ""Don't wear masks,"" now he wants to wear masks. Anthony also said, if you look back, exact words, here's his exact words. ""This is no problem. This is going to go away soon."" So he's allowed to make mistakes. He happens to be a good person. Well, this is what I-  I don't know. Somebody went through Wall Street. You're the one that takes all the money from Wall Street. I don't take it. Joe, you have raised a lot of money, tremendous amounts of money. And every time you raise money deals are made, Joe. I could raise so much more money. As President, and as somebody that knows most of those people, I could call the heads of Wall Street, the heads of every company in America. I would blow away every record. But I don't want to do that because it puts me in a bad position. And then you bring up Wall Street? You shouldn't be bringing up Wall Street, because you're the one that takes the money from Wall Street, not me. I could blow away your records like you wouldn't believe. We don't need money. We have plenty of money. In fact, we beat Hillary Clinton with a tiny fraction of the money that she was able to  Don't tell me about . Well, let me respond to the first part, as Joe answered. Joe got $3.5 million from Russia and it came through Putin, because he was very friendly with the former mayor of Moscow and it was the mayor of Moscow's wife. And you got $3.5 million. Your family got $3.5 million. And someday you're going to have to explain, why did you get three and a half? I never got any money from Russia. I don't get money from Russia. Now, about your thing last night. I knew all about that. And through John  who is John Ratcliffe, who is fantastic, DNI  he said, ""The one thing that's common to both of them, they both want you to- ... them. They both want you to lose because there has been nobody tougher to Russia between the sanctions, nobody tougher than me on Russia, between the sanctions, between all of what I've done with NATO. I've got the NATO countries to put up an extra $130 billion going to $420 billion a year. That's to guard against Russia. I sold, while he was selling pillows and sheets, I sold tank busters to Ukraine. There has been nobody tougher on Russia than Donald Trump. And I'll tell you, they were so bad. They took over the submarine port, you remember that very well, during your term, during you and Barack Obama. They took over a big part of what should have been Ukraine. You handed it to them. But you were getting a lot of money from Russia. They were paying you a lot of money, and they probably still are. But now, with what came out today, it's even worse. All of the emails, the emails, the horrible emails of the kind of money that you were raking in, you and your family. And Joe, you were vice-president when some of this was happening, and it should have never happened. And I think you owe an explanation to the American people. Why is it, somebody just had a news conference a little while ago who was essentially supposed to work with you and your family, but what he said was damning. And regardless of me, I think you have to clean it up and talk to the American people. Maybe you can do it right now. First of all, I called my accountants, underwrote it, I'm going to release them as soon as we can. I want to do it. And it'll show how successful, how great this company is. But much more importantly than that, people were saying $750. I asked them a week ago, I said, ""What did I pay?"" They said, ""Sir, you prepaid tens of millions of dollars."" I prepaid my tax, over the last number of years, tens of millions of dollars, I prepaid, because at some point, they think it's an estimate. They think I may have to pay tax. So I already prepaid it. Nobody told me that. Nobody told you that. Excuse me. And it wasn't written. Whenever they write this, they keep talking about $750, which I think is a filing fee, but let me just tell you, I prepaid millions and millions of dollars in taxes, number one. Number two, I don't make money from China. You do. I don't make money from Ukraine. You do. I don't make money from Russia. You made $3.5 million, Joe, and your son gave you, they even have a statement that we have to give 10% to the big man. You're the big man, I think. I don't know, maybe you're not, but you're the big man, I think. Your son said we have to give 10% to the big men. Joe, what's that all about? It's terrible. As soon as the auditors finish. I get treated worse than the tea party got treated, because I have a lot of people in there- ... deep down in the IRS, they treat me horribly. We made a deal, it was all settled until I decide to run for president. I get treated very badly by the IRS, very unfairly, but we had a deal all done. As soon as we're completed with the deal, I want to release it, but I have paid millions and millions of dollars and it's worse than paying. I paid in advance. It's called prepaying your taxes. I paid . Everybody knows. So... I was put through a phony witch hunt for three years. It started before I even got elected. They spied of my campaign. No president should ever have to go through what I went through. Let me just say this, Mueller and 18 angry Democrats and FBI agents all over the place spent $48 million. They went through everything I had, including my tax returns, and they found absolutely no collusion and nothing wrong. $48 million. I guarantee you, if I spent $1 million on you, Joe, I could find plenty wrong because the kind of things- ... that you've done and the kind of monies that your family has taken, I mean, your brother made money in Iraq- ... millions of dollars. Your other brother made a fortune, and it's all through you, Joe. And they say you get some of it. And you do live very well, you have houses all over the place. You live very well. ... But could I just one thing? His son didn't have a job for a long time, was, sadly, no longer in the military service, I won't get into that, and he didn't have a job. As soon as he became vice-president, Burisma, not the best reputation in the world, I hear they paid him $183,000 a month, listen to this, $183,000, and they gave him a $3 million upfront payment, and he had no energy experience. That's 100% dishonest. I have many bank accounts and they're all listed and they're all over the place. I mean, I was a businessman doing business. The bank account you're referring to, which is, everybody knows about it, it's listed, the bank account was in 2013. That's what it was. It was opened. It was closed in 2015, I believe. And then I decided, because I was going to do... I was thinking about doing a deal in China, like millions of other people, I was thinking about it and I decided I'm not going to do it, didn't like it, I decided not to do it, had an account open and I closed it. Excuse me. And then, unlike him where he's vice-president and he does business, I then decided to run for president after that. That was before. So I closed it before I even ran for president, let alone became president, big difference. He is the vice-president of the United States and his son, his brother, and his other brother are getting rich. They're like a vacuum cleaner. They're sucking up money . No, no, no. Excuse me. No, I have to... Excuse me. No, I have to respond to that. His son walked out with a billion and a half dollars from China to ... ... after spending 10 minutes in office and being in Air Force Two. Number one. Number two, there's a very strong email talking about your family wanting to make $10 million a year for introductions. No, but wait a minute. First of all, China is paying. They're paying billions and billions of dollars. I just gave $28 billion. I just gave $28 billion to our farmers. It's what? No, no. You know who the taxpayer is? It's called China. China pays 28 billion, and you know what they did to pay it, Joe? They devalued their currency and they also paid up, and you know got the money? Our farmers, our great farmers, because they were targeted. You never charged them anything. Also, I charged them 25% on dumped steel, because they were killing our steel industry. We were not going to have a steel industry. And now we have a steel industry. That is a typical statement. Excuse me. Just for one second, please. That's a typical political statement. Let's get off this China thing, and then he looks, ""The family around the table, everything."" Just a typical politician when I see that. I'm not a typical politician. That's why I got elected. Let's get off the subject of China. Let's talk about sitting around the table. Come on, Joe. You could do better. No. So when I met with Barack Obama, we sat in the White House, right at the beginning, had a great conversation. Was supposed to be 15 minutes and it was well over an hour. He said, ""The biggest problem we have is North Korea."" He indicated we will be in a war with North Korea. Guess what? It would be a nuclear war. And he does have plenty of nuclear capability. In the meantime, I have a very good relationship with him. Different kind of a guy, but he probably thinks the same thing about me. We have a different kind of a relationship. We have a very good relationship and there's no war. And about two months ago, he broke into a certain area. They said, ""Oh, there's going to be trouble."" I said, ""No, they're not, because he's not going to do that."" And I was right. Look, instead of being in a war where millions of people, Seoul is 25 miles away, millions and millions, 32 million people. Millions of people would be dead right now. We don't have a war and I have a good relationship. Kristen. They tried to meet with him. He wouldn't do it. He didn't like Obama. He didn't like him. He wouldn't do it. I know for a fact. They tried. We wouldn't do it. And that's okay. You know what? North Korea, we're not in a war. We have a good relationship. People don't understand. Having a good relationship with leaders of other countries is a good thing. And it didn't happen. Excuse me. He left me a mess. Kristen. They left me a mess. North Korea was a mess, and in fact, if you remember the first two or three months. It was a very dangerous period in my first three months before we worked things out a little bit. There was a very day. They left us a mess, and Obama would be, I think, the first to say it, was the single biggest problem he thought that our country . First of all, I've already done something that nobody thought was possible. Through the legislature, I terminated the individual mandate. That is the worst part of Obamacare, as we call it. The individual mandate where you have to pay a fortune for the privilege of not having to pay for bad health insurance, I terminated. It's gone. Now, it's in court, because Obamacare is no good. But then I made a decision, run it as well as you can, to my people, great people, run it as well as you can. I could have gone the other route and made everybody very unhappy. They ran it. Premiums are down. Everything's down. Here's the problem. No matter how well you run it, it's no good. What we'd like to do is terminate it. We have the individual mandate done. I don't know that it's going to work. If we don't win, we will have to run it and we'll have Obamacare, but it'll be better run. But it no longer is Obamacare, because without the individual mandate, it's much different. Pre-existing conditions will always stay. What I would like to do is a much better healthcare, much better. We'll always protect people with pre-existing. So I'd like to terminate Obamacare, come up with a brand new, beautiful healthcare. The Democrats will do it, because there'll be tremendous pressure on them. And we might even have the House by that time. And I think we're going to win the House. You'll see, but I think we're going to win the House. But come up with a better healthcare, always protecting people with pre-existing conditions. And one thing very important, we have 180 million people out there that have great private healthcare. Far more than we're talking about with Obamacare. Joe Biden is going to terminate all of those policies. These are people that love their healthcare. People that have been successful, middle-income people, been successful. They have 180 million plans, 180 million people, families. Under what he wants to do, which will basically be socialized medicine, he won't even have a choice, they want to terminate 180 million plans. We have done an incredible job at healthcare, and we're going to do even better. Just you watch. Excuse me. He was there- ... for 47 years. He didn't do it. He was now there as vice president for eight years. And it's not like it was 25 years ago. It was three and three quarters... It was just a little while ago, right? Less than four years ago. He didn't do anything. He didn't do it. He wants socialized medicine. And it's not that he wants it. His vice president, she is more liberal than Bernie Sanders and wants it even more. Bernie Sanders wants it. The Democrats want it. You're going to have socialized medicine, just like you want it with fracking. ""We're not going to have fracking. We're going to stop fracking. We're going to stop fracking."" Then he goes to Pennsylvania after he gets a nomination, where he got very lucky to get it. And he goes to Pennsylvania, and he says, ""Oh, we're going to have fracking."" And you never ask that question. And by the way, so far, I respect very much the way you're handling this, I have to say. But somebody should ask the question. He goes for a year, there will be no fracking. There will be no petroleum- No, no. But that's a big question. It's the same thing with socialized medicine. Kristen, when he says- When he says public option, he's talking about socialized medicine and healthcare. When he talks about a public option, he's talking about destroying your Medicare, totally destroying- ... and destroying your Social Security. And this whole country will come down. Bernie Sanders tried it in his state. He tried it in his state. His governor was a very liberal governor. They wanted to make it work. It was impossible to work. It doesn't work. He tried to get rid of- He tried to hurt Social Security years ago. Years ago. Go back and look at the records. He tried to hurt Social Security years ago. One thing. But this is the guy- ... that when they announced last week- They say the stock market will boom if I'm elected. If he's elected, the stock market will crash. The biggest analysts are saying that. 401(k)s. Kristen, 401(k)s are through the roof. People's stock are through the roof. And he doesn't come from Scranton. He lived there for a short period of time before he even knew it. And he left. And the people of Pennsylvania will show you that. They understand. Because Nancy Pelosi doesn't want to approve it. I do. I do. But I still have to get, unfortunately... That's one of the reasons I think we're going to take over the House, because of her. Nancy Pelosi doesn't want to approve anything because she'd love to have some victories on a date called November 3rd. Nancy Pelosi does not want to approve it. We are ready, willing, and able to do something. Don't forget, we've already approved three plans. And it's gone through, including the Democrats, in all fairness. This one, she doesn't want. It's near the election. Because she thinks it helps her politically. I think it hurts her politically. If we made a deal, the Republicans will pass it. The bill that was passed in the House was a bailout of badly run, high crime, Democrat, all run by Democrat cities and states. It was a way of getting a lot of money, billions and billions of dollars, to these guys. It was also a way of getting a lot of money from our people's pockets to people that come into our country illegally. We were going to take care of everything for them. And I'd love to do that. I'd love to help them. But what that does, everybody all over the world will start pouring into our country. We can't do it. This was a way of taking care of them. This was a way of spending on things that had nothing to do with COVID, as per your question. But it was really a big bailout for badly run Democrat cities and states. Excuse me. One thing very quickly. He said we have to help our small businesses by raising the minimum wage. That's not helping. I think it should be a state option. Alabama is different than New York. New York is different from Vermont. Every state is different. It should be a state option. It's very important. We have to help our small businesses. How are you helping your small businesses when you're forcing wages? What's going to happen, and what's been proven to happen, is when you do that, these small businesses fire many of their employees. Say it. Say it. What I really like, and I would consider it to an extent- But what I really like... In a second administration. But not to a level that's going to put all these businesses out of business. It should be a state option. Look, I've lived- ... in different places. I know different places. They're all different. Some places, $ 15 is not so bad. In other places, other states, $15 would be ruinings. Children are brought here by coyotes and lots of bad people, cartels...  and lots of bad people, cartels, and they're brought here and they used to use them to get into our country. We now have as strong a border as we've ever had. We're over 400 miles of brand new wall. You see the numbers. And we let people in, but they have to come in legally and they come in through - But let me just tell you. Let me just tell you. They built cages. They used to say I built the cages, and then they had a picture in a certain newspaper, and it was the picture of these horrible cages and they said, ""Look at these cages. President Trump built them."" And then it was determined they were built in 2014. That was him. They built cages. Yes. We're working on it very... We're trying very hard. But a lot of these kids come out without the parents. They come over through cartels and through coyotes and through gangs. Kristen, they did it. We changed the policy. They did it. We changed. They built the cages. Who built the cages, Joe? Kristen, I will say this. They went down. We brought reporters, everything. They are so well taken care of. They're in facilities that were so clean. They have gotten such good... But just ask one question. Who built the cages? I'd love you to ask him that. Who built the cages, Joe? Kristen, he had eight years to do what he said he was going to do. And I've changed. Without having a specific, we got rid of catch and release. We got rid of a lot of horrible things that they put in and that they lived with. But he had eight years he was Vice President. He did nothing except build cages to keep children in. So important. It just shows that he has no understanding of immigration, of the laws. Catch and release is a disaster. A murderer would come in. A rapist would come in. A very bad person would come in. We would take their name. We have to release them into our country. And then you say they come back. Less than 1% of the people come back. We have to send ICE out and Border Patrol out to find them. We would say, ""Come back in two years, three years. We're going to give you a court case. You did Perry Mason. We're going to give you a court case."" When you say they come back, they don't come back, Joe. They never come back. Only the really... I hate to say this, but those with the lowest IQ, they might come back, but there are very, very few. You don't know the law, Joe. Well, check it out. They don't come back. But we don't have to worry about it, because they terminated it. So we don't have to worry about it anymore, Joe. Go ahead."
economic recovery since the great depression terrorism was on the rise around the world and we'd witnessed a steady assault on our most cherished values but in three short years we rebuild our military we revived the american economy we secured our border supported law enforcement stood for life liberty and the constitution of the united states of america it's been america first and america first all starts with the national defense you know when we took office we'd seen years of reckless budget cuts to our national defense when joe biden was vice president of the united states but president donald trump he actually signed the largest investment in our national defense since the days of ronald reagan and i have to tell you not just as your vice president but as the proud father of a united states marine and the father-in-law of a united states navy pilot i couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who has fought every day to give our men and women of our armed forces the resources and the support that they need to defend this nation we're doing it we've rebuilt our military we haven't just stood with those who haven't just stood with those who wear the uniform we've stood with those who've worn the uniform of the united states i mean are there veterans in the audience today could you put your hand or your hat in the air just give us a chance to say thank you one more time thank you for your service thank you for your service it's amazing to think when we took office we go through years of scandals at the va you all remember here in new hampshire when joe biden was vice president we literally had veterans who were perishing waiting to receive treatment at va hospitals when president donald trump walked into the oval office everything changed we passed the most sweeping reforms of the va in 50 years we fired thousands of va employees that were not giving our veterans the care that they earned in the uniform of the united states and veterans choice is now available for every veteran in america so we stood strong with those who serve and we'd sit strong with those who did so and all along the way president donald trump revived our economy with the time-honored principles of freedom free markets and free enterprise and after the slowest recovery since the great depression we created the greatest economy in american history it's amazing to think when joe biden was vice president they tried to tax and spend and bail and regulate their way back to a growing economy you remember those things i mean the american economy recovered in spite of the policies of the obama by the administration and now in the midst of a global pandemic joe biden wants to raise taxes by four trillion dollars just at a time that america is coming back president trump we cut taxes across the board for working families and businesses large and small we rolled back more federal red tape than any administration in history we fought for free and fair trade that put america first we unleashed american energy and in just three short years seven million jobs were created by businesses large and small including 19 000 jobs right here in the granite state i mean i'm proud to report to you under president trump's policies and leadership average hourly earnings grew faster in our first three years than in all eight years when joe biden was vice president and wages rose most rapidly for hard-working blue-collar americans the forgotten men and women of america were forgotten no more you know and on health care you all remember the disaster of obamacare remember the big three promises they said if you like your doctor you can keep that wasn't true they said if you like your health insurance you can keep it that wasn't true they said health insurance premiums would go down you know when we took office health insurance premiums had actually doubled in the wake of obamacare and now joe biden wants to double down on the failed policies of obamacare he and kamala harris actually support adding a public option to obamacare straight out of bernie sanders agenda it'll set us on an inevitable path to socialize medicine but under president donald trump we're going to keep lowering the cost of health insurance without growing the size of government we've lowered the cost of prescription drugs we passed right to try we're going to have the best health care in the world and we will never be a socialist country so it's been about jobs it's been about prosperity rolling back red tape giving the american people a health care system built on the principles of free enterprise when it comes to economic policy our international trade here in new hampshire and all across america is vitally important the truth is when we took office half of our international trade deficit was with communist china joe biden's been a cheerleader for communist china all along the way and closer to home in the decades that followed the passage of nafta remember democrats always used to like to talk about everything that was wrong with nafta but joe biden never lifted a finger to reform nafta as literally thousands of factories closed across the country and those jobs were shipped south of the border and overseas it's amazing to think after all those empty promises and all those failed policies president trump stepped into the oval office we put china on notice we said the era of economic surrender is over we impose tariffs on china and will keep standing strong on china until they open their markets to american goods and protect the private property rights of american enterprise and on nafta the guy that wrote the art of the deal got america a great deal nafta is gone the usmca is now the law of the land and energy is a critical part it's a critical part of family budgets and business budgets and a growing economy you all in new hampshire deserve to know joe biden and the radical left want to crush american energy under a 2 trillion version of the green new deal it would literally raise the cost of electricity for every household and every business in new hampshire i mean it's incredible when you think about it i mean president trump actually had to remind joe biden in that last presidential debate that he supported the great new deal but i gotta tell you very much difference between aoc green new deal and joe biden and kamala harris's green new deal and that's just how usa today identified i mean the truth is joe biden is talking about mandates out of washington dc that would stifle american jobs and economies he said he wants to abolish fossil fuels in this country under president donald trump we've unleashed american energy and under the policies of this president we've developed the vast natural resources of this nation and we're now a net exporter of energy for the first time in 70 years now when joe biden was vice president you all might remember america actually lost 200 000 manufacturing jobs you remember the last president that summertime in 2016. i heard he's in philadelphia today but he probably won't bring this up so i will the last president actually said that those manufacturing jobs in america were never coming back 200 000 were gone for good right i mean from you know i'm from out in the heartland and these people like calling our neck to the woods the rust belt and there was a lot of rust on the belt when they were in charge right remember barack obama said what magic wand do you have well we didn't need a magic wand we just needed president donald trump in the white house five hundred thousand manufacturing jobs created in just three years including three thousand right here in new hampshire i mean it's just incredible when you think about the progress that we make this president has been a champion all along the way of american jobs and american workers as i stand before you today men and women we have a choice to make a truthful in this election come november 3rd it's going to be a choice between a trump recovery and abiding depression i mean just yesterday a nonpartisan study came out that said under joe biden's economic policies america would lose 5 million jobs and the average household income in america in the coming years would drop by thousand five hundred dollars a year it's no real surprise when you're gonna raise taxes by four trillion dollars we're gonna drop a two trillion dollar version of the green new deal on top of the american economy when you're talking about driving out and abolishing american energy and going back to economic surrender it's no surprise i mean in every day between now and election day you gotta you gotta ask yourself your neighbors and your friends of worship and at work i mean who do you really think is going to bring this economy all the way back is it a proven job creator that put timeless free market principles into practice and saw seven million jobs created or a career politician who spent 47 years in washington raising taxes stifling our economy under an avalanche of regulation and economic surrender so men and women of new hampshire for our families for our jobs for economic freedom and the american comeback we need four more years of president donald trump in the white house so it's been about security it's been about prosperity we fought for american energy and american workers in every step of the way president donald trump has stood for the rule of law i'm proud to report to you that as i stand here today this president's appointed more than 200 conservatives to our federal courts at every level and they are all men and women who will uphold the god-given liberties enshrined in our constitution like the freedom of religion the freedom of speech and the second amendment right to keep and bear arms and i'll tell you what we'll always defend the freedom of speech and the freedom of the press at a time when big tech is actually trying to censor what americans read or see or say we're going to take a stand you all might have seen yesterday the justice department launched an anti-trust lawsuit against google while big tech is trying to protect joe biden president donald trump and i will always fight to protect your freedom of speech we're not gonna let big tech block the truth not now not ever when you think of the rule of law we think of last month we paused as a nation to rightly honor the life and service of the late justice ruth bader ginsburg but when the memorials were over president trump fulfilled his constitutional duty and he nominated a remarkable  principle conservative woman who loves the constitution to the supreme court of the united states he nominated judge amy coney barrett isn't she great now the president and i are calling on democrats to give judge barrett a respectful and dignified confirmation but we have reason to be concerned and you all remember a couple years ago during her last confirmation to the court of appeals the leading democrat on the judiciary committee actually criticized judge barrett's catholic faith she said it was a concern saying and i quote the dogma lives loudly within you and hollywood elites have already begun to criticize judge barrett's faith well i got news for the democrats and their friends in hollywood that dogma lives loudly in me that dogma lives loudly in you and the freedom to live to work to worship according to the dictates of our faith lives loudly in the constitution of the united states of america it's who we are it's our freedom so the senate's got a job to do and after they discharge their duty this week and early next to advise and consent i'll make you predictions judge amy coney barrett is going to be justice amy coney barrett we're going to fill that seat on the supreme court of the united states now while we're talking about supreme court people here in this freedom-loving state deserve to know after 150 years with nine justices on the supreme court of the united states leading democrats in washington are actually talking about backing the program adding seats to the court so they can appoint liberal activist judges to drive their agenda from the judicial branch mean last saturday last thursday night joe biden said in his town hall that he's quote open to considering packing the court kamala harris said in the primary she was quote absolutely open and when i when i asked her during the vice presidential debate what the answer was she refused to give me a straight answer now joe biden is telling the american people that he'll tell us what he's going to do after judge barrett is confirmed next week even though millions of americans are voting right now i mean come on man the american people deserve a straight answer when you're running for the highest office in the land you gotta tell america whether you respect the highest court in the land am i right i mean come on you know i was born in the morning but not yesterday morning we all know the answer joe biden and kamala harris aren't answering the question because we already know the answer joe biden democratic party and the radical left are going to pack the court with liberal activist judges if they win this election but we're not going to let it happen we're going to re-elect a republican majority in the senate and we're going to re-elect president donald trump for four more years the stakes are just that high many women pack into court like these democrats are planning to do that be the greatest power grab in american history we got to talk to our neighbors and friends about it and about the states i mean it's just one more reason by right after you reelect president donald trump you've got to send corky messner to the united states senate corki messner will stand for the constitution the rule of law and independent judiciary so we've stood for the rule of law and every single day i've served alongside this president i've seen it president donald trump has stood with the men and women who serve on the thin blue line of law enforcement and we always will you know the president i know what you know that is the men and women who put on the uniform of law enforcement are the best people in this country in every day they put on that uniform and strap on a sidearm they walk out the door kiss their families goodbye they count our lives more important than their own those who serve in law enforcement deserve the respect of every american every single day would you all mind showing these police officers who are with us today just how much we appreciate the job they do when they protect and serve our families every day thank you for that you know president trump and i will always support the right of peaceful protest enshrined in the constitution but rioting and looting is not peaceful protest burning businesses is not free speech and for months all joe biden and his running mate talked about were peaceful protesters remember literally as we saw businesses in our major cities burned to the ground i was in minneapolis just a few weeks ago standing at uh the ruins of uh a flora westbrook salon floor is a wonderful african-american business owner started that salon in minneapolis 35 years ago it became a centerpiece of the community and she told me the story about just days after the killing of george floyd how she saw the violent protesters come closer and closer and closer to her business until the night they burned her up men and women i'm gonna tell you i told flora that day we're going to rebuild we're going to rebuild bigger and better than ever before and we're going to have law and order for her and for every american in every city of every race and creed and color so help us god i mean the truth is joe biden would double down on the policies that are leading to violence in our major cities when you start to erode support for those who protect and serve our families you just embolden those who would do violence for those we love and to our community now joe biden explains it all by saying that america is in his words systemically racist and he and his running mate repeatedly say that police officers have a quote implicit bias against minorities when he was asked if he support cutting funding for law enforcement joe biden said yes absolutely and his running mate kamala harris actually praised the mayor of los angeles for cutting 150 million dollars out of the budget of the lapd let me make your promise under president donald trump we're not going to defund the police not now not ever we're going to back the blue for four more years i mean the president i know what you all know we don't have to choose between supporting law enforcement and supporting our african-american neighbors and friends and minorities and everyone that lives in our cities i mean i couldn't be more proud to be a vice president to a president who supported funding for the hiring of four thousand new police officers when violence outbreak that broke out this summer we literally searched federal officials in operation legend every major city in the country and we've arrested nearly 3 000 violent offenders already restoring peace to our streets but at the same time in that same period of time because of this president's policies we saw the lowest unemployment ever recorded for african americans we created more than 8 000 opportunity zones for inner city families we signed historically black colleges universities their largest budgets ever and made them permanent and we have fought for educational choice for every family in every city in america so i promise you we're going to keep supporting law enforcement we're going to keep supporting our african-american neighbors with more jobs more opportunities better education more public safety and we're going to do it all for four more years so we stood for the rule of law stood with those who defend our families at home and abroad and when it comes to values i couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who has stood for the religious freedom of every american of every faith every single day president donald trump is the greatest champion of people of faith in america in my lifetime and i couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who stands without apology for the sanctity of human life you all deserve to know that joe biden and kamala harris actually support taxpayer funding of abortion all the way up to the moment of birth they're calling for historic increases to planned parenthood of america and they want to restore funding to promote abortion around the world but i promise you president donald trump is the most pro-life president in american history and we're going to stand for the right to life for four more  years so in our first three years amazing to think what we all accomplished we rebuilt our military we revived our economy we stood for law and order liberties and life and that's why that's why we need to not only re-elect president donald trump for four more years not only send corey messner to the united states senate but we need to send matt mowers to a new republican majority in the united states house of representatives and retired nancy pelosi once and for all i mean when you look at what we were able to accomplish when we had republican majorities in the house and the senate men and women in new hampshire you know the job before it's amazing to think in three short years president of the white house with our allies in the house and the senate only one way you can describe it in three short years we made america great again right we just did and then 2020 hit and the corona virus struck from china but i can tell you firsthand before the first documented case of community spread in the united states president trump did what no american president had ever done before he suspended all travel from china the second largest economy in the world now joe biden said that was xenophobic he said it was hysterical he actually wrote a few days earlier that that banning travel from anywhere in the world would actually make things worse but i can tell you joe biden's wrong as head of the white house coronavirus task force i can i can attest firsthand president trump's decision to suspend all travel from china saved untold american lives and it bought us invaluable time to stand up the greatest national mobilization since world war ii we reinvented testing we saw to the manufacturer in the distribution of billions of supplies we've created new medicines called therapeutics that are literally saving lives every single day and we're just a matter of weeks away from having the first safe and effective coronavirus vaccine and tens of millions of doses available for the american people that's what leadership looks like in fact the president just announced last week a plan with cvs and walgreens to deliver and administer vaccines to our seniors in nursing homes for free all across america the moment it becomes available i mean with the incredible cooperation of the people of this state and this country putting the health of your families and neighbors first with our incredible doctors and nurses health care providers and first responders with the partnership at the state level and the leadership of this president we're protecting the vulnerable we've given the american people everything we need to make sure that anyone impacted by the coronavirus has the support to get the health care that we want any member of our family to have and we're saving lives and where joe biden is talking about shutting down the economy we're opening up america again i mean in just the last five months after losing 22 million jobs at the height of this pandemic with that strong foundation that president trump poured with your support in our first three years with the unprecedented relief and recovery efforts four trillion dollars made available to families and businesses we've already seen eleven and a half million americans go back to work including sixty 61 000 people right here in new hampshire we're opening up america and we're opening up america's schools i'm proud to report to you mr pence is already back in the classroom teaching at a little christian school just outside our nation's country so we're going to keep those supplies rolling until the day comes that we have that vaccine and we can put this coronavirus in the past and for all the progress we made it's a testament to our president's leadership an incredible free enterprise system great research companies great doctors and nurses let me also say it is a testament here in new hampshire the strong and compassionate leadership of governor chris sununu so we're moving our country forward we've gone through a time of testing but in just 13 days we're going to come to a time for choosing which is why i'm out here and you're out here in the drizzle today in new hampshire you know when you look at their agenda higher taxes open borders socialized medicine a green new deal defunding the police packing the courts it's clear joe biden would be nothing more than a trojan horse for the radical left now joe biden says that democracy is on the ballot well i think our economic recovery is on the ballot i think law and order are on the ballot but i think there are things much more foundational to our nation i think in this election it's not so much whether we're going to end up more republican or more democrat more conservative or more liberal more red or more blue new hampshire the choice in this election i believe is whether america remains american it's going to be a choice of whether we build a future on all the timeless principles enshrined in that constitution benjamin franklin walked out independence hall and he was asked in 1787 what former government they'd created he said a republic if you can keep men and women i think this is a choice such time as this this choice about whether we're going to keep the republic it's whether we're going to chart a course based on freedom limited government the ideals and the liberties and the principles enshrined in our founding document or whether we're going to let joe biden and the democratic party take us on a path of american decline so let me say for our freedom for our republic for all the ideals that have always made america great we need to decide right here and right now that joe biden will never be president of the united states we're going to re-elect president donald trump for four more years and with four more years as the president says we're gonna accomplish so much for this country with four more years we'll distribute a vaccine and we'll defeat the virus four more years we'll maintain america's unrivaled military might and ensure peace through american strength the four more years we'll make america into the manufacturing superpower of the world and end reliance on china once and for all we'll uphold religious liberty freedom of speech the right to keep and bear arms we'll hire more police we will ban sanctuary cities we will stop the indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education in our schools and as president trump said that mount rushmore will teach our children to love our country honor our history and always respect our great american flag and we'll live by those timeless words your motto is live free or not our motto is all of us is in god we trust and i got to tell you men and women in new hampshire i'm just very grateful you came out on a soggy day to see your vice president i'm really very honored i have to tell you it's the greatest honor of my life to be your vice president and i thank you for that great honor and for your support you know i actually didn't know the president very well before he called me four years ago and asked me to join this ticket but we've got to be very close some people think we're a little bit different but i got to tell you i've seen this president when all the cameras are off and all the bright lights are off and i can tell you firsthand having served shoulder to shoulder with him over these last four years there has never been a day that president donald trump against unprecedented opposition and attacks there has never been a day president donald trump hasn't gotten up and fought to keep the promises that he made to the people of new hampshire now it's our turn to fight for him it's on new hampshire it's on so before i get back on that plane and head to ohio i got a couple things to ask of you over the next 13 days first thing i need you to do is vote new hampshire vote to re-elect president donald trump to the white house and i heard the last day to register before the election here in portsmouth it's going to be next wednesday october 28th so if you're not registered yet go to the city clerk's office on one junkins avenue normal wednesday hours 8 a.m to 4 30. there's still time if you're not registered to vote get registered to vote today in fact i checked out on the way here you can go and request an absentee ballot until election day you can mail it in and drop it off at the very same location mr pence and i are going to do that in the hoosier state in just a couple days so we need you to vote new hampshire and remember friends don't let friends vote alone grab a family member grab a neighbor grab a co-worker and vote to re-elect president donald trump okay so after you vote with a friend second thing i wanted to ask you to do is just go tell somebody okay i mean i got to tell you four years ago i never doubted that this president was going to win in that election and i don't doubt it today because i know the american people then and now we're talking to each other i mean the people of this state knew we could be strong again you knew we could be prosperous again you were talking to your neighbors and friends about those timeless ideals of this country and you saw in donald trump not just the vision but the leadership qualities to make america great again and so go tell your neighbors and friends say you know i went out to the airport the other day it was raining and mike came out he ran every bit as fast as he could and then he talked to us like for an hour out in the rain just about everything we've done about the choice that we face and about everything we can do for america with four more years of president donald trump in the white house you got to go tell him so after you vote with a friend after you tell your neighbors and friends every day for the next 13 days i encourage you to do one more thing you know traveling all across this country over the last four years i'm convinced of two things in this live free or dive state this is a freedom loving nation and this is a nation of faith i mean i had a little girl in that vice presidential debate turned in a question at the end where she said she was watching tv and it just looked like there was so much that divides us but after traveling across america i'm more convinced than ever that there will always be more that unites us in these united states of america than will ever divide us and chief among those things is of faith in the american people and so if you're among those who on occasion bend the knee and bow the head over the next 13 days i encourage you to do that too and when you pray pray with confidence those ancient words that if his people who are called by his name will humble themselves and pray and turn that he'll do like he's always done in the long and storied history of this state and nation he'll hear from heaven and he'll heal this land this one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all so pray for america pray for all of the american people it'll make a difference new hampshire so thanks again for coming out today you all are just you're like the greatest i can't wait to get on the phone and tell them i see you said your wingman was in new hampshire and we were all out there getting rained on and they you all just fanta give yourselves a round of   for coming out on a rainy day thank you so much i leave here today with renewed confidence that if all of us do all that we need to do between now and november 3rd we're going to have a great victory all across new hampshire and all across america because as this president often says we're one movement one people one family and one glorious nation and i just know together we're going to make new hampshire and america stronger than ever before we're going to make new hampshire and america more prosperous than you could possibly imagine going to make new hampshire and america more united than ever before and with corey messner in a renewed republican majority in the united states senate with matt mowers in a new republican majority in the house of representatives with governor chris sununu back at the state house and with president donald trump in the white house for four more years and with god's help we will make america great again again thank you all very much god bless you god bless america let's go get it done new hampshire  oh
"Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and Citizens of America: Tonight, as we mark the conclusion of our celebration of Black History Month, we are reminded of our Nation's path toward civil rights and the work that still remains.  Recent threats targeting Jewish Community Centers and vandalism of Jewish cemeteries, as well as last week's shooting in Kansas City, remind us that while we may be a Nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all its forms. Each American generation passes the torch of truth, liberty and justice - in an unbroken chain all the way down to the present. That torch is now in our hands.  And we will use it to light up the world.  I am here tonight to deliver a message of unity and strength, and it is a message deeply delivered from my heart. A new chapter of American Greatness is now beginning. A new national pride is sweeping across our Nation. And a new surge of optimism is placing impossible dreams firmly within our grasp. What we are witnessing today is the Renewal of the American Spirit. Our allies will find that America is once again ready to lead. All the nations of the world -- friend or foe -- will find that America is strong, America is proud, and America is free. In 9 years, the United States will celebrate the 250th anniversary of our founding -- 250 years since the day we declared our Independence. It will be one of the great milestones in the history of the world. But what will America look like as we reach our 250th year? What kind of country will we leave for our children? I will not allow the mistakes of recent decades past to define the course of our future. For too long, we've watched our middle class shrink as we've exported our jobs and wealth to foreign countries. We've financed and built one global project after another, but ignored the fates of our children in the inner cities of Chicago, Baltimore, Detroit -- and so many other places throughout our land. We've defended the borders of other nations, while leaving our own borders wide open, for anyone to cross -- and for drugs to pour in at a now unprecedented rate. And we've spent trillions of dollars overseas, while our infrastructure at home has so badly crumbled. Then, in 2016, the earth shifted beneath our feet.  The rebellion started as a quiet protest, spoken by families of all colors and creeds - families who just wanted a fair shot for their children, and a fair hearing for their concerns. But then the quiet voices became a loud chorus -- as thousands of citizens now spoke out together, from cities small and large, all across our country. Finally, the chorus became an earthquake  and the people turned out by the tens of millions, and they were all united by one very simple, but crucial demand, that America must put its own citizens first ... because only then, can we truly MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN. Dying industries will come roaring back to life.  Heroic veterans will get the care they so desperately need. Our military will be given the resources its brave warriors so richly deserve. Crumbling infrastructure will be replaced with new roads, bridges, tunnels, airports and railways gleaming across our beautiful land. Our terrible drug epidemic will slow down and ultimately, stop. And our neglected inner cities will see a rebirth of hope, safety, and opportunity. Above all else, we will keep our promises to the American people. It's been a little over a month since my inauguration, and I want to take this moment to update the Nation on the progress I've made in keeping those promises. Since my election, Ford, Fiat-Chrysler, General Motors, Sprint, Softbank, Lockheed, Intel, Walmart, and many others, have announced that they will invest billions of dollars in the United States and will create tens of thousands of new American jobs. The stock market has gained almost three trillion dollars in value since the election on November 8th, a record.  We've saved taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars by bringing down the price of the fantastic new F-35 jet fighter, and will be saving billions more dollars on contracts all across our Government.  We have placed a hiring freeze on non-military and non-essential Federal workers. We have begun to drain the swamp of government corruption by imposing a 5 year ban on lobbying by executive branch officials - and a lifetime ban on becoming lobbyists for a foreign government. We have undertaken a historic effort to eliminate jobcrushing regulations, creating a deregulation task force inside of every Government agency; imposing a new rule which mandates that for every 1 new regulation, 2 old regulations must be eliminated; and stopping a regulation that threatens the future and livelihoods of our great coal miners. We have cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone and Dakota Access Pipelines -- thereby creating tens of thousands of jobs -- and I've issued a new directive that new American pipelines be made with American steel. We have withdrawn the United States from the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. With the help of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, we have formed a Council with our neighbors in Canada to help ensure that women entrepreneurs have access to the networks, markets and capital they need to start a business and live out their financial dreams. To protect our citizens, I have directed the Department of Justice to form a Task Force on Reducing Violent Crime. I have further ordered the Departments of Homeland Security and Justice, along with the Department of State and the Director of National Intelligence, to coordinate an aggressive strategy to dismantle the criminal cartels that have spread across our Nation. We will stop the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth -- and we will expand treatment for those who have become so badly addicted. At the same time, my Administration has answered the pleas of the American people for immigration enforcement and border security.  By finally enforcing our immigration laws, we will raise wages, help the unemployed, save billions of dollars, and make our communities safer for everyone.  We want all Americans to succeed - but that can't happen in an environment of lawless chaos.  We must restore integrity and the rule of law to our borders. For that reason, we will soon begin the construction of a great wall along our southern border. As we speak, we are removing gang members, drug dealers and criminals that threaten our communities and prey on our citizens.  Bad ones are going out as I speak tonight and as I have promised. To any in Congress who do not believe we should enforce our laws, I would ask you this question:  what would you say to the American family that loses their jobs, their income, or a loved one, because America refused to uphold its laws and defend its borders? Our obligation is to serve, protect, and defend the citizens of the United States.  We are also taking strong measures to protect our Nation from Radical Islamic Terrorism. According to data provided by the Department of Justice, the vast majority of individuals convicted for terrorism-related offenses since 9/11 came here from outside of our country.  We have seen the attacks at home - from Boston to San Bernardino to the Pentagon and yes, even the World Trade Center. We have seen the attacks in France, in Belgium, in Germany and all over the world. It is not compassionate, but reckless, to allow uncontrolled entry from places where proper vetting cannot occur.  Those given the high honor of admission to the United States should support this country and love its people and its values. We cannot allow a beachhead of terrorism to form inside America -- we cannot allow our Nation to become a sanctuary for extremists. That is why my Administration has been working on improved vetting procedures, and we will shortly take new steps to keep our Nation safe -- and to keep out those who would do us harm. As promised, I directed the Department of Defense to develop a plan to demolish and destroy ISIS -- a network of lawless savages that have s ed Muslims and Christians, and men, women, and children of all faiths and beliefs.  We will work with our allies, including our friends and allies in the Muslim world, to extinguish this vile enemy from our planet. I have also imposed new sanctions on entities and individuals who support Iran's ballistic missile program, and reaffirmed our unbreakable alliance with the State of Israel. Finally, I have kept my promise to appoint a Justice to the United States Supreme Court -- from my list of 20 judges -- who will defend our Constitution.  I am honored to have Maureen Scalia with us in the gallery tonight.  Her late, great husband, Antonin Scalia, will forever be a symbol of American justice.  To fill his seat, we have chosen Judge Neil Gorsuch, a man of incredible skill, and deep devotion to the law.  He was confirmed unanimously to the Court of Appeals, and I am asking the Senate to swiftly approve his nomination. Tonight, as I outline the next steps we must take as a country, we must honestly acknowledge the circumstances we inherited. Ninety-four million Americans are out of the labor force. Over 43 million people are now living in poverty, and over 43 million Americans are on food stamps. More than 1 in 5 people in their prime working years are not working. We have the worst financial recovery in 65 years. In the last 8 years, the past Administration has put on more new debt than nearly all other Presidents combined. We've lost more than one-fourth of our manufacturing jobs since NAFTA was approved, and we've lost 60,000 factories since China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. Our trade deficit in goods with the world last year was nearly $800 billion dollars. And overseas, we have inherited a series of tragic foreign policy disasters. Solving these, and so many other pressing problems, will require us to work past the differences of party.  It will require us to tap into the American spirit that has overcome every challenge throughout our long and storied history. But to accomplish our goals at home and abroad, we must restart the engine of the American economy -- making it easier for companies to do business in the United States, and much harder for companies to leave. Right now, American companies are taxed at one of the highest rates anywhere in the world. My economic team is developing historic tax reform that will reduce the tax rate on our companies so they can compete and thrive anywhere and with anyone.  At the same time, we will provide massive tax relief for the middle class. We must create a level playing field for American companies and workers. Currently, when we ship products out of America, many other countries make us pay very high tariffs and taxes -- but when foreign companies ship their products into America, we charge them almost nothing. I just met with officials and workers from a great American company, Harley-Davidson.  In fact, they proudly displayed five of their magnificent motorcycles, made in the USA, on the front lawn of the White House. At our meeting, I asked them, how are you doing, how is business?  They said that it's good.  I asked them further how they are doing with other countries, mainly international sales.  They told me -- without even complaining because they have been mistreated for so long that they have become used to it -- that it is very hard to do business with other countries because they tax our goods at such a high rate.  They said that in one case another country taxed their motorcycles at 100 percent. They weren't even asking for change.  But I am. I believe strongly in free trade but it also has to be FAIR TRADE. The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned that the ""abandonment of the protective policy by the American Government  produce want and ruin among our people."" Lincoln was right -- and it is time we heeded his words. I am not going to let America and its great companies and workers, be taken advantage of anymore. I am going to bring back millions of jobs.  Protecting our workers also means reforming our system of legal immigration.  The current, outdated system depresses wages for our poorest workers, and puts great pressure on taxpayers. Nations around the world, like Canada, Australia and many others - have a merit-based immigration system.  It is a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country ought to be able to support themselves financially.  Yet, in America, we do not enforce this rule, straining the very public resources that our poorest citizens rely upon.  According to the National Academy of Sciences, our current immigration system costs America's taxpayers many billions of dollars a year. Switching away from this current system of lower-skilled immigration, and instead adopting a merit-based system, will have many benefits:  it will save countless dollars, raise workers' wages, and help struggling families - including immigrant families - enter the middle class. Another Republican President, Dwight D. Eisenhower, initiated the last truly great national infrastructure program - the building of the interstate highway system.  The time has come for a new program of national rebuilding. America has spent approximately six trillion dollars in the Middle East, all this while our infrastructure at home is crumbling.  With this six trillion dollars we could have rebuilt our country - twice.  And maybe even three times if we had people who had the ability to negotiate. To launch our national rebuilding, I will be asking the Congress to approve legislation that produces a $1 trillion investment in the infrastructure of the United States -- financed through both public and private capital - creating millions of new jobs. This effort will be guided by two core principles:  Buy American, and Hire American. Tonight, I am also calling on this Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare with reforms that expand choice, increase access, lower costs, and at the same time, provide better Healthcare. Mandating every American to buy government-approved health insurance was never the right solution for America.  The way to make health insurance available to everyone is to lower the cost of health insurance, and that is what we will do. Obamacare premiums nationwide have increased by double and triple digits.  As an example, Arizona went up 116 percent last year alone.  Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky just said Obamacare is failing in his State -- it is unsustainable and collapsing. One third of counties have only one insurer on the exchanges - leaving many Americans with no choice at all. Remember when you were told that you could keep your doctor, and keep your plan? We now know that all of those promises have been broken. Obamacare is collapsing - and we must act decisively to protect all Americans.  Action is not a choice - it is a necessity. So I am calling on all Democrats and Republicans in the Congress to work with us to save Americans from this imploding Obamacare disaster. Here are the principles that should guide the Congress as we move to create a better healthcare system for all Americans: First, we should ensure that Americans with pre-existing conditions have access to coverage, and that we have a stable transition for Americans currently enrolled in the healthcare exchanges. Secondly, we should help Americans purchase their own coverage, through the use of tax credits and expanded Health Savings Accounts - but it must be the plan they want, not the plan forced on them by the Government. Thirdly, we should give our great State Governors the resources and flexibility they need with Medicaid to make sure no one is left out. Fourthly, we should implement legal reforms that protect patients and doctors from unnecessary costs that drive up the price of insurance  and work to bring down the artificially high price of drugs and bring them down immediately. Finally, the time has come to give Americans the freedom to purchase health insurance across State lines - creating a truly competitive national marketplace that will bring cost way down and provide far better care. Everything that is broken in our country can be fixed.  Every problem can be solved.  And every hurting family can find healing, and hope. Our citizens deserve this, and so much more - so why not join forces to finally get it done?  On this and so many other things, Democrats and Republicans should get together and unite for the good of our country, and for the good of the American people. My administration wants to work with members in both parties to make childcare accessible and affordable, to help ensure new parents have paid family leave, to invest in women's health, and to promote clean air and clear water, and to rebuild our military and our infrastructure. True love for our people requires us to find common ground, to advance the common good, and to cooperate on behalf of every American child who deserves a brighter future. An incredible young woman is with us this evening who should serve as an inspiration to us all. Today is Rare Disease day, and joining us in the gallery is a Rare Disease Survivor, Megan Crowley.  Megan was diagnosed with Pompe Disease, a rare and serious illness, when she was 15 months old.  She was not expected to live past 5. On receiving this news, Megan's dad, John, fought with everything he had to save the life of his precious child.  He founded a company to look for a cure, and helped develop the drug that saved Megan's life.  Today she is 20 years old -- and a sophomore at Notre Dame. Megan's story is about the unbounded power of a father's love for a daughter. But our slow and burdensome approval process at the Food and Drug Administration keeps too many advances, like the one that saved Megan's life, from reaching those in need. If we slash the restraints, not just at the FDA but across our Government, then we will be blessed with far more miracles like Megan. In fact, our children will grow up in a Nation of miracles. But to achieve this future, we must enrich the mind - and the souls - of every American child. Education is the civil rights issue of our time. I am calling upon Members of both parties to pass an education bill that funds school choice for disadvantaged youth, including millions of African-American and Latino children.  These families should be free to choose the public, private, charter, magnet, religious or home school that is right for them. Joining us tonight in the gallery is a remarkable woman, Denisha Merriweather.  As a young girl, Denisha struggled in school and failed third grade twice.  But then she was able to enroll in a private center for learning, with the help of a tax credit scholarship program.  Today, she is the first in her family to graduate, not just from high school, but from college.  Later this year she will get her masters degree in social work. We want all children to be able to break the cycle of poverty just like Denisha. But to break the cycle of poverty, we must also break the cycle of violence. The murder rate in 2015 experienced its largest single-year increase in nearly half a century. In Chicago, more than 4,000 people were shot last year alone - and the murder rate so far this year has been even higher. This is not acceptable in our society. Every American child should be able to grow up in a safe community, to attend a great school, and to have access to a high-paying job. But to create this future, we must work with - not against - the men and women of law enforcement. We must build bridges of cooperation and trust - not drive the wedge of disunity and division. Police and sheriffs are members of our community.  They are friends and neighbors, they are mothers and fathers, sons and daughters  and they leave behind loved ones every day who worry whether or not they'll come home safe and sound. We must support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. And we must support the victims of crime. I have ordered the Department of Homeland Security to create an office to serve American Victims.  The office is called VOICE - Victims Of Immigration Crime Engagement.  We are providing a voice to those who have been ignored by our media, and silenced by special interests. Joining us in the audience tonight are four very brave Americans whose government failed them. Their names are Jamiel Shaw, Susan Oliver, Jenna Oliver, and Jessica Davis. Jamiel's 17-year-old son was viciously murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member, who had just been released from prison.  Jamiel Shaw Jr. was an incredible young man, with unlimited potential who was getting ready to go to college where he would have excelled as a great quarterback.  But he never got the chance.  His father, who is in the audience tonight, has become a good friend of mine. Also with us are Susan Oliver and Jessica Davis.  Their husbands - Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver and Detective Michael Davis - were slain in the line of duty in California.  They were pillars of their community.  These brave men were viciously gunned down by an illegal immigrant with a criminal record and two prior deportations. Sitting with Susan is her daughter, Jenna.  Jenna:  I want you to know that your father was a hero, and that tonight you have the love of an entire country supporting you and praying for you. To Jamiel, Jenna, Susan and Jessica:  I want you to know - we will never stop fighting for justice.  Your loved ones will never be forgotten, we will always honor their memory. Finally, to keep America Safe we must provide the men and women of the United States military with the tools they need to prevent war and - if they must - to fight and to win. I am sending the Congress a budget that rebuilds the military, eliminates the Defense sequester, and calls for one of the largest increases in national defense spending in American history. My budget will also increase funding for our veterans. Our veterans have delivered for this Nation - and now we must deliver for them. The challenges we face as a Nation are great.  But our people are even greater. And none are greater or braver than those who fight for America in uniform. We are blessed to be joined tonight by Carryn Owens, the widow of a U.S. Navy Special Operator, Senior Chief William ""Ryan"" Owens.  Ryan died as he lived:  a warrior, and a hero - battling against terrorism and securing our Nation. I just spoke to General Mattis, who reconfirmed that, and I quote, ""Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemies.""  Ryan's legacy is etched into eternity.  For as the Bible teaches us, there is no greater act of love than to lay down one's life for one's friends.  Ryan laid down his life for his friends, for his country, and for our freedom - we will never forget him. To those allies who wonder what kind of friend America will be, look no further than the heroes who wear our uniform. Our foreign policy calls for a direct, robust and meaningful engagement with the world.  It is American leadership based on vital security interests that we share with our allies across the globe. We strongly support NATO, an alliance forged through the bonds of two World Wars that dethroned fascism, and a Cold War that defeated communism. But our partners must meet their financial obligations. And now, based on our very strong and frank discussions, they are beginning to do just that. We expect our partners, whether in NATO, in the Middle East, or the Pacific - to take a direct and meaningful role in both strategic and military operations, and pay their fair share of the cost. We will respect historic institutions, but we will also respect the sovereign rights of nations. Free nations are the best vehicle for expressing the will of the people - and America respects the right of all nations to chart their own path.  My job is not to represent the world.  My job is to represent the United States of America. But we know that America is better off, when there is less conflict -- not more. We must learn from the mistakes of the past - we have seen the war and destruction that have raged across our world. The only long-term solution for these humanitarian disasters is to create the conditions where displaced persons can safely return home and begin the long process of rebuilding. America is willing to find new friends, and to forge new partnerships, where shared interests align.  We want harmony and stability, not war and conflict. We want peace, wherever peace can be found.  America is friends today with former enemies.  Some of our closest allies, decades ago, fought on the opposite side of these World Wars.  This history should give us all faith in the possibilities for a better world. Hopefully, the 250th year for America will see a world that is more peaceful, more just and more free. On our 100th anniversary, in 1876, citizens from across our Nation came to Philadelphia to celebrate America's centennial.  At that celebration, the country's builders and artists and inventors showed off their creations. Alexander Graham Bell displayed his telephone for the first time. Remington unveiled the first typewriter.  An early attempt was made at electric light. Thomas Edison showed an automatic telegraph and an electric pen. Imagine the wonders our country could know in America's 250th year. Think of the marvels we can achieve if we simply set free the dreams of our people. Cures to illnesses that have always plagued us are not too much to hope. American footprints on distant worlds are not too big a dream. Millions lifted from welfare to work is not too much to expect. And streets where mothers are safe from fear -- schools where children learn in peace -- and jobs where Americans prosper and grow -- are not too much to ask. When we have all of this, we will have made America greater than ever before. For all Americans. This is our vision. This is our mission. But we can only get there together. We are one people, with one destiny. We all bleed the same blood. We all salute the same flag. And we are all made by the same God. And when we fulfill this vision; when we celebrate our 250 years of glorious freedom, we will look back on tonight as when this new chapter of American Greatness began. The time for small thinking is over.  The time for trivial fights is behind us. We just need the courage to share the dreams that fill our hearts. The bravery to express the hopes that stir our souls. And the confidence to turn those hopes and dreams to action. From now on, America will be empowered by our aspirations, not burdened by our fears - inspired by the future, not bound by the failures of the past - and guided by our vision, not blinded by our doubts. I am asking all citizens to embrace this Renewal of the American Spirit.  I am asking all members of Congress to join me in dreaming big, and bold and daring things for our country.  And I am asking everyone watching tonight to seize this moment and -- Believe in yourselves. Believe in your future. And believe, once more, in America. Thank you, God bless you, and God Bless these United States."
"Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much.  How are you? Well I want to thank everybody on stage. They are really a terrific team. We have some of the real winners in the audience, too, that I can tell yousome great, great people. I want to thank Vice President Pence. As always, hes right there and he has really been a help to this administration. We have some big things happening today, and we have some very big things happening over the next month, and I guess probably I can say over the next eight years. I suspect I can say that.  Its wonderful to be here with so many pioneers and visionaries from Americas energy industrygreat industry. I want to thank the leaders of our great energy companies for joining us today and for supporting our efforts to bring true wealth and prosperity to our people. Thats true. Come on, give yourself a hand.  You deserve it. You deserve it. Youve gone through eight years of hell, and actually I could say even a little bit more than that. You deserve it. I also want to express our sincere gratitude to the labor union leaders and members who have joined us today. Thank you, fellas. Thank you, thank you.  Your workers embody the skill, grit and courage that has always been the true source of American strength. They are great people. They break through rock walls, mine the depths of the earth, and reach through the ocean floor, to bring every ounce of energy into our homes and commerce and into our lives. Our nation salutes you. Youre brave and you are great workers. Thank you very much. Thank you, fellas.  Before turning to the topic at hand, I want to provide a brief update on two crucial votes taking place this afternoon on the House Floorvery important. These bills are vital to public safety and national security, and I want to thank Chairman Bob Goodlatte for his efforts. Bob has been working very hard and really for a long time, but we got it going. First, the House will be voting on Kates Lawlegislation named for Kate Steinle, who was killed by an illegal immigrant with five prior deportations and lots of bad things on his record. The second is the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, which blocks federal grants to cities that release dangerous criminal aliens back into the streets, including the vicious and disgusting and horrible MS-13 gang members. And were getting them out. We are getting them out. Theyre goingfast.  General Kelly and his whole grouptheyve gotten rid of 6,000 so far. Were about 50 percent there, and were actually liberating towns. Like on long Island, where I grew upwere liberating towns. Those people are so happy to see our guys, and our guys are a lot tougher than the MS-13 characters. That I can tell you. Liberation.  Im calling on all lawmakers to put the safety of American families first. And lets pass these bills through the House, through the Senate, and send them to my desk. I will give you the fastest approval, the fastest signature that you have ever seen. Right, Mike? We will get that signed so fast.  So when we get back, the first thing Im going to do is how did we do on the vote? I expect good things; otherwise I probably wouldnt be talking about it to be honest with you. Id just sort of low-key it a little bit.  I dont like losing. I dont like losing.  Neither do you folks. Every member of Congress should vote to save American lives. Many great members of Congress are here with us this afternoonsome great people, some great, great people. Thank you very much. Not only are they working with us on border security, but they share our desire to unleash American energy. I especially want to thank Secretary Perry for his tremendous leadership in this department. He has really done a terrific job, and hes also a cheerleaderhes really a cheerleader. I watched that in Texas. The thing that I loved about himhe was always saying how great Texas was. And if you dont say it, I dont know. You got to say it, right? And youre doing it right now with energy.  Thats true. Along with Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. And weve been through our battles, Scott. Not with each other, with the world. And now the world is starting to say I think theyre right.  Theyll find out. We have no doubt. But all three of them strongly believe in putting America first, which is what I believe in, which is why I got elected. Its called Make America Great Againthats what were doingMake America Great Again. Were here today to usher in a new American energy policyone that unlocks million and millions of jobs and trillions of dollars in wealth. For over 40 years, America was vulnerable to foreign regimes that used energy as an economic weapon. Americans quality of life was diminished by the idea that energy resources were too scarce to support our people. We always thought that, and actually at the time it was right to think. We didnt think we had this tremendous wealth under our feet. Many of us remember the long gas lines and the constant claims that the world was running out of oil and natural gas. Americans were told that our nation could only solve this energy crisis by imposing draconian restrictions on energy production. But we now know that was all a big, beautiful myth. It was fake. Dont we love that term, fake? What weve learned about fake over the last little whilefake news, CNN. Fake. (Laughter and  .) Whoops, their camera just went off.  Okay, you can come back. I wont sayI promise I wont say anything more about you. I see that red light go off, I say, whoa. The truth is that we have near-limitless supplies of energy in our country. Powered by new innovation and technology, we are now on the cusp of a true energy revolution. Our country is blessed with extraordinary energy abundance, which we didnt know of, even five years ago and certainly ten years ago. We have nearly 100 years worth of natural gas and more than 250 years worth of clean, beautiful coal. We are a top producer of petroleum and the number-one producer of natural gas. We have so much more than we ever thought possible. We are really in the driving seat. And you know what? We dont want to let other countries take away our sovereignty and tell us what to do and how to do it. Thats not going to happen.  With these incredible resources, my administration will seek not only American energy independence that weve been looking for so long, but American energy dominance. And were going to be an exporterexporter.  We will be dominant. We will export American energy all over the world, all around the globe. These energy exports will create countless jobs for our people, and provide true energy security to our friends, partners, and allies all across the globe. But this full potential can only be realized when government promotes energy developmentthats this guy right here, and hell do it better than anybodyinstead of obstructing it like the Democrats. They obstruct it. But we get through it. We cannot have obstruction. We have to get out and do our job better and faster than anybody in the world, certainly when it comes to one of our great assetsenergy. This vast energy wealth does not belong to the government. It belongs to the people of the United States of America.  Yet, for the past eight years, the federal government imposed massive job-killing barriers to American energy development. Since my very first day in office, I have been moving at record pace to cancel these regulations and to eliminate the barriers to domestic energy production, like never before. Job-killing regulations are being removed and vital infrastructure projects are being approved at a level that theyve never seen before. As you all know, I approved the Keystone XL Pipeline and the Dakota Access Pipeline in my first week. Thousands of jobstremendous things are happening. And, by the way, I thought Id take a lot of heat. I didnt take any heat. I approved them and that was it. I figured wed have all sorts of protests. We didnt have anything. But I have to dowhether its protesting or not, I have to do whats right. But people celebrate those two transactions, as opposed to protesting. But sometimes you have to go out and just do it, and you find out. Whatever happens, happens. But you have to be right for the American people.  Thank you. Im dramatically reducing restrictions on the development of natural gas. I cancelled the moratorium on a new coal leasingand you know what was happeningthe new coal leasing on federal lands, it was being so terribly restricted. And now with Ryan and with a group, its going to be open, and the land will be left in better shape than it is right now. Is that right? Better shape.  We have finally ended the war on coal. And I am proud to report that Corsa Coal, here with us today, just opened a brand-new coal mine in the state of Pennsylvania, the first one in many, many, many years. Corsa, stand up. Come on.  Congratulations. Congratulations. Employing a lot of people, and we are putting the coal miners back to work just like I promisedjust like I promised when I went through Ohio and West Virginia, Wyoming and all of the different places. And I see Bob back there. Congratulations, Bob. Hes in great shape, right? You in good shape, Bob? Right from the beginning. Good. You just take care of yourself, all right? Were ending intrusive EPA regulations that kill jobs, hurt family farmers and ranchers, and raise the price of energy so quickly and so substantially. In order to protect American jobs, companies and workers, weve withdrawn the United States from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord.  And I wont get into it, but believe me, that really put this country at a disadvantage. Number one, we werent playing on the same field. It kicked in for us, and it doesnt kick in for others. The money that we had to pay was enormous. It was not even close. And maybe well be back into it someday, but it will be on better terms. It will be on fair termsnot on terms where were the people that dont know what were doing. So well see what happens. But I will tell you were proud of it. And when I go around, there are so many people that say thank you. You saved the sovereignty of our country. You saved our wealth because we would have a hard time getting to this newfound wealth. And thats not going to happen with our country.  Today, I am proudly announcing six brand-new initiatives to propel this new era of American energy dominance. First, we will begin to revive and expand our nuclear energy sectorwhich Im so happy aboutwhich produces clean, renewable and emissions-free energy. A complete review of U.S. nuclear energy policy will help us find new ways to revitalize this crucial energy resource. And I know youre very excited about that, Rick. Second, the Department of the Treasury will address barriers to the financing of highly efficient, overseas coal energy plants. Ukraine already tells us they need millions and millions of metric tons right now. There are many other places that need it, too. And we want to sell it to them, and to everyone else all over the globe who need it. Third, my administration has just approved the construction of a new petroleum pipeline to Mexico, which will further boost American energy exports, and that will go right under the wall, right? Its going under, right? ( ) Have it go down a little deeper in that one section. You know, a little like this. Right under the wall. Fourth, just today, a major U.S. company, Sempra Energy, signed an agreement to begin negotiations for the sale of more American natural gas to South Korea. And, as you know, the leaders of South Korea are coming to the White House today, and weve got a lot of discussion to do. But we will also be talking about them buying energy from the United States of America, and Im sure theyll like to do it. They need it. Thank you.  Fifth, the United States Department of Energy is announcing today that it will approve two long-term applications to export additional natural gas from the Lake Charles LNG terminal in Louisiana. Its going to be a big deal. Its a great announcement. Finally, in order to unlock more energy from the 94 percent of offshore land closed to development, under the previous administration, so much of our land was closed to development. Were opening it up, the right areas, but were opening it upwere creating a new offshore oil and gas leasing program. America will be allowed to access the vast energy wealth located right off our shores. And this is all just the beginningbelieve me. The golden era of American energy is now underway. And Ill go a step further: The golden era of America is now underway. Believe me.  And youre all going to be a part of it in creating this exciting new future. We will bring new opportunity to the heartland, new prosperity to our inner cities, and new infrastructure all across our nation. When it comes to the future of Americas energy needs, we will find it, we will dream it, and we will build it. American energy will power our ships, our planes and our cities. American hands will bend the steel and pour the concrete that brings this energy into our homes and that exports this incredible, newfound energy all around the world. And American grit will ensure that what we dream, and what we build, will truly be second to none. We will be number one again all the way. Were going to make America great again. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you."
"Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. I am thrilled to be here. Thrilled. And if you think that was an easy trip, youre wrong. But I am thrilled. 19th Boy Scout Jamboree, wow, and to address such a tremendous group. Boy, you have a lot of people here. The press will say its about 200 people. It looks like about 45,000 people. You set a record today. You set a record. Thats a great honor, believe me. Tonight we put aside all of the policy fights in Washington, D.C. youve been hearing about with the fake news and all of that. Were going to put that Were going to put that aside. And instead were going to talk about success, about how all of you amazing young Scouts can achieve your dreams, what to think of, what Ive been thinking about. You want to achieve your dreams, I said, who the hell wants to speak about politics when Im in front of the Boy Scouts? Right? There are many great honors that come with the job of being president of the United States. But looking out at this incredible gathering of mostly young patriots. Mostly young. Im especially proud to speak to you as the honorary president of the Boy Scouts of America.  You are the young people of character, integrity who will serve as leaders of our communities and uphold the sacred values of our nation. I want to thank Boy Scouts President Randall Stephenson, chief Scout executive Michael Surbaugh, Jamboree Chairman Ralph de la Vega and the thousands of volunteers who made this a life-changing experience for all of you. And when they asked me to be here, I said absolutely yes. Finallyand we cant forgot these peopleI especially want to salute the moms and the dads and troop leaders who are here tonight.  Thank you for making scouting possible. Thank you, mom and dad, troop leaders. When you volunteer for the Boy Scouts you are not only shaping young lives, you are shaping the future of America. The United States has no better citizens than its Boy Scouts. No better. The values, traditions and skills you learn here will serve you throughout your lives. And just as importantly, they will serve your families, your cities, and in the future and in the present will serve your country. The Scouts believe in putting America first. You know, I go to Washington and I see all these politicians, and I see the swamp, and its not a good place. In fact, today, I said we ought to change it from the word swamp to the word cesspool or perhaps to the word sewer. But its not good. Not good. And I see whats going on. And believe me, Id much rather be with you, that I can tell you. Ill tell you the reason that I love this, and the reason that I really wanted to be here, is because as president, I rely on former Boy Scouts every single day. And so do the American people. Its amazing how many Boy Scouts we have at the highest level of our great government. Many of my top advisers in the White House were Scouts. Ten members of my cabinet were Scouts. Can you believe that? Ten. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is not only a Boy Scout, he is your former national president. The vice president of the United States, Mike Pencea good guywas a Scout, and it meant so much to him. Some of you here tonight might even have camped out in this yard when Mike was the governor of Indiana, but the scouting was very, very important. And by the way, where are our Indiana scouts tonight? I wonder if the television cameras will follow you? They dont doing that when they see these massive crowds. They dont like doing that. Hi, folks. Theres a lot of love in this big, beautiful place. A lot of love. And a lot of love for our country. And a lot of love for our country. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke is here tonight. Come here, Ryan. Ryan is an Eagle Scout from Big Sky Country in Montana. Pretty good. And by the way, he is doing a fantastic job. He makes sure that we leave our national parks and federal lands better than we found them in the best scouting tradition. So thank you very much, Ryan. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry of Texas, an Eagle Scout from the great state. The first time he came to the National Jamboree was in 1964. He was very young then. And Rick told me just a little while ago, it totally changed his life. So, Rick, thank you very much for being here. And were doingwere doing a lot with energy.  And very soon, Rick, we will be an energy exporter. Isnt that nice? An energy exporter. In other words, well be selling our energy instead of buying it from everybody all over the globe. So thats good. We will be energy dominant. And Ill tell you what, the folks in West Virginia who were so nice to me, boy, have we kept our promise. We are going on and on. So we love West Virginia. We want to thank you. Wheres West Virginia by the way? Thank you. Secretary Tom Price is also here today. Dr. Price still lives the Scout oath, helping to keep millions of Americans strong and healthy as our secretary of Health and Human Services. And hes doing a great job. And hopefully hes going to gets the votes tomorrow to start our path toward killing this horrible thing known as Obamacare thats really hurting us.  By the way, are you going to get the votes? He better get them. He better get them. Oh, he better. Otherwise Ill say, Tom, youre fired. Ill get somebody. He better get Senator Capito to vote for it. He better get the other senators to vote for it. Its time. You know, after seven years of saying repeal and replace Obamacare, we have a chance to now do it. They better do it. Hopefully theyll do it. As we can see just by looking at our government, in America, Scouts lead the way. And another thing Ive noticedand Ive noticed it all my lifethere is a tremendous spirit with being a Scout, more so than almost anything I can think of. So whatever is going on, keep doing it. Its incredible to watch, believe me. Each of these leaders will tell that you their road to American successand you have to understandtheir American success, and they are a great, great story, was paved with the patriotic American values and traditions they learned in the Boy Scouts. And some day, many years from now, when you look back on all of the adventures in your lives you will be able to say the same, I got my start as a Scout, just like these incredibly great people that are doing such a good job for our country. So thats going to happen. Boy Scout values are American values. And great Boy Scouts become great, great Americans. As the Scout law says, a scout is trustworthy, loyalwe could use some more loyalty I will tell that you that. That was very impressive. Youve heard that before. But here you learn the rewards of hard work and perseverance, never, ever give up. Never quit. Persevere. Never, ever quit. You learn the satisfaction of building a roaring campfire, reaching a mountain summit or earning a merit badge after mastering a certain skill. Theres no better feeling than an achievement that youve earned with your own sweat, tears, resolve, hard work. Theres nothing like it. Do you agree with that? Im waving to people back there so small I cant even see them. Man, this is a lot of people. Turn those cameras back there, please. That is so incredible. By the way, what do you think the chances are that this incredible massive crowd, record setting, is going to be shown on television tonight? One percent or zero? The fake media will say, President Trump spokeyou know what isPresident Trump spoke before a small crowd of Boy Scouts today. Thats somethat is some crowd. Fake media. Fake news. Thank you. And Im honored by that. By the way, all of you people that cant even see you, so thank you. I hope you can hear. Through scouting you also learned to believe in yourselfso importantto have confidence in your ability and to take responsibility for your own life. When you face down new challengesand you will have plenty of themdevelop talents you never thought possible, and lead your teammates through daring trials, you discover that you can handle anything. And you learn it by being a Scout. Its great.  You can do anything. You can be anything you want to be. But in order to succeed, you must find out what you love to do. You have to find your passion, no matter what they tell you. If you dontI love you too. I dont know. Nice guy. Hey, what am I going to do? He sounds like a nice person. Hehe, he, he. I do. I do love you. By the way, just a question, did President Obama ever come to a Jamboree? And well be back. Well be back. The answer is no. But well be back. In life, in order to be successfuland you people are well on the road to successyou have to find out what makes you excited, what makes you want to get up each morning and go to work? You have to find it. If you love what you do and dedicate yourself to your work, then you will gain momentum? And look, you have to. You need the word momentum. You will gain that momentum. And each success will create another success. The word momentum. Ill tell you a story thats very interesting for me. When I was young there was a man named William Levitt. You have some here. You have some in different states. Anybody ever hear of Levittown? And he was a very successful man, became unbelievablehe was a home builder, became an unbelievable success, and got more and more successful. And hed build homes, and at night hed go to these major sites with teams of people, and hed scour the sites for nails, and sawdust and small pieces of wood, and they cleaned the site, so when the workers came in the next morning, the sites would be spotless and clean, and he did it properly. And he did this for 20 years, and then he was offered a lot of money for his company, and he sold his company, for a tremendous amount of money, at the time especially. This is a long time ago. Sold his company for a tremendous amount of money. And he went out and bought a big yacht, and he had a very interesting life. I wont go any more than that, because youre Boy Scouts so Im not going to tell you what he did. Should I tell you? Should I tell you? Youre Boy Scouts, but you know life. You know life. So look at you. Who would think this is the Boy Scouts, right? So he had a very, very interesting life, and the company that bought his company was a big conglomerate, and they didnt know anything about building homes, and they didnt know anything about picking up the nails and the sawdust and selling it, and the scraps of wood. This was a big conglomerate based in New York City. And after about a 10-year period, there were losing a lot with it. It didnt mean anything to them. And they couldnt sell it. So they called William Levitt up, and they said, would you like to buy back your company, and he said, yes, I would. He so badly wanted it. He got bored with this life of yachts, and sailing, and all of the things he did in the south of France and other places. You wont get bored, right? You know, truthfully, youre workers. Youll get bored too, believe me. Of course having a few good years like that isnt so bad. But what happened is he bought back his company, and he bought back a lot of empty land, and he worked hard at getting zoning, and he worked hard on starting to develop, and in the end he failed, and he failed badly, lost all of his money. He went personally bankrupt, and he was now much older. And I saw him at a cocktail party. And it was very sad because the hottest people in New York were at this party. It was the party of Steve RossSteve Ross, who was one of the great people. He came up and discovered, really founded Time Warner, and he was a great guy. He had a lot of successful people at the party. And I was doing well, so I got invited to the party. I was very young. And I go in, but Im in the real estate business, and I see a hundred people, some of whom I recognize, and theyre big in the entertainment business. And I see sitting in the corner was a little old man who was all by himself. Nobody was talking to him. I immediately recognized that that man was the once great William Levitt, of Levittown, and I immediately went over. I wanted to talk to him more than the Hollywood, show business, communications people. So I went over and talked to him, and I said, Mr. Levitt, Im Donald Trump. He said, I know. I said, Mr. Levitt, how are you doing? He goes, Not well, not well at all. And I knew that. But he said, Not well at all. And he explained what was happening and how bad its been and how hard its been. And I said, What exactly happened? Why did this happen to you? Youre one of the greats ever in our industry. Why did this happen to you? And he said, Donald, I lost my momentum. I lost my momentum. A word you never hear when youre talking about success when some of these guys that never made 10 cents, theyre on television giving you things about how youre going to be successful, and the only thing they ever did was a book and a tape. But I tell youIll tell you, it was very sad, and I never forgot that moment. And I thought about it, and its exactly true. He lost his momentum, meaning he took this period of time off, long, years, and then when he got back, he didnt have that same momentum. In life, I always tell this to people, you have to know whether or not you continue to have the momentum. And if you dont have it, thats OK. Because youre going to go on, and youre going to learn and youre going to do things that are great. But you have to know about the word momentum. But the big thing, never quit, never give up; do something you love. When you do something you love as a Scout, I see that you love it. But when you do something that you love, youll never fail. What youre going to do is give it a shot again and again and again. Youre ultimately going to be successful. And remember this, youre not working. Because when youre doing something that you love, like I doof course I love my business, but this is a little bit different. Who thought this was going to happen. Were, you know, having a good time. Were doing a good job. Doing a good job. But when you do something that you love, remember this, its not work. So youll work 24/7. Youre going to work all the time. And at the end of the year youre not really working. You dont think of it as work. When youre not doing something that you like or when youre forced into do something that you really dont like, thats called work, and its hard work, and tedious work. So as much as you can do something that you love, work hard and never ever give up, and youre going to be tremendously successful, tremendously successful. Now, with that, I have to tell you our economy is doing great. Our stock market has picked up since the election, November 8thdo we remember that day? Was that a beautiful day? What a day. Do you remember that famous night on television, November 8th where they said, these dishonest people, where they said, there is no path to victory for Donald Trump. They forgot about the forgotten people. By the way, theyre not forgetting about the forgotten people anymore. Theyre going crazy trying to figure it out, but I told them, far too late; its far too late. But you remember that incredible night with the maps, and the Republicans are red and the Democrats are blue, and that map was so red it was unbelievable. And they didnt know what to say.  And you know, we have a tremendous disadvantage in the Electoral College. Popular vote is much easier. We havebecause New York, California, Illinois, you have to practically run the East Coast. And we did. We won Florida. We won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. We won Pennsylvania. We won and won. So when they said, there is no way to victory; there is no way to 270. You know I went to Maine four times because its one vote, and we won. We won. One vote. I went there because I kept hearing were at 269. But then Wisconsin came in. Many, many years. Michigan came in. Soand we worked hard there. You know, my opponent didnt work hard there, because she was told ( ) She was told she was going to win Michigan, and I said, well, wait a minute. The car industry is moving to Mexico. Why is she going to moveshes there. Why are they allowing it to move? And by the way, do you see those car industrydo you see whats happening? Theyre coming back to Michigan. Theyre coming back to Ohio. Theyre starting to peel back in. And we go to Wisconsin, now, Wisconsin hadnt been won in many, many years by a Republican. But we go to Wisconsin, and we had tremendous crowds. And Id leave these massive crowds, Id say, why are we going to lose this state? The polls, thats also fake news. Theyre fake polls. But the polls are sayingbut we won Wisconsin. So I have to tell you, what we did, in all fairness, is an unbelievable tribute to you and all of the other millions and millions of people that came out and voted for make America great again. And Ill tell you what, we are indeed making America great again.  And Ill tell you what, we are indeed making America great again. Whats going on is incredible. We had the best jobs report in 16 years. The stock market on a daily basis is hitting an all-time high. Were going to be bringing back very soon trillions of dollars from companies that cant get their money back into this country, and that money is going to be used to help rebuild America. Were doing things that nobody ever thought was possible, and weve just started. Its just the beginning, believe me. You know, in the Boy Scouts you learn right from wrong, correct? You learn to contribute to your communities, to take pride in your nation, and to seek out opportunities to serve. You pledge to help other people at all times. In the Scout oath, you pledge on your honor to do your best and to do your duty to God and your country. And by the way, under the Trump administration youll be saying Merry Christmas again when you go shopping, believe me. Merry Christmas. Theyve been downplaying that little beautiful phrase. Youre going to be saying Merry Christmas again, folks. But the words duty, country and God are beautiful words. In other words, basically what youre doing is youre pledging to be a great American patriot. For more than a century that is exactly what our Boy Scouts have been. Last year you gave more than 15 million hours of service to helping people in your communities. Incredible. Thats an incredible stat. All of you here tonight will contribute more than 100,000 hours of service by the end of this Jamboree100,000. When natural disaster strikes, when people face hardship, when the beauty and glory of our outdoor spaces must be restored and taken care of, America turns to the Boy Scouts because we know that the Boy Scouts never ever, ever let us down. Just like you know you can count on me, we know we can count on you, because we know the values that you live by. Your values are the same values that have always kept America strong, proud and free. And by the way, do you see the billions and billions and billions of additional money that were putting back into our military? Billions of dollars. New planes, new ships, great equipment for our people that are so great to us. We love our vets. We love our soldiers. And we love our police, by the way. Firemen, police. We love our police. Those are all special people. Uniformed services. Two days ago I traveled to Norfolk, Virginia to commission an American aircraft carrier into the fleet of the United States Navy. Its the newest, largest and most advanced aircraft carrier anywhere in the world, and its named for an Eagle Scoutthe USS Gerald R. Ford. Everywhere it sails that great Scouts name will be feared and revered, because that ship will be a symbol of American power, prestige and strength. Our nation honors President Gerald R. Ford today because he lived his life the scouting way. Boy Scouts celebrate American patriots, especially the brave members of our Armed Forces. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. American hearts are warmed every year when we read about Boy Scouts placing thousands and thousands of flags next to veterans grave sites all across the country. By honoring our heroes, you help to ensure that their memory never, ever dies. You should take great pride in the example you set for every citizen of our country to follow. Generations of American Boy Scouts have sworn the same oath and lived according to the same law. You inherit a noble American tradition. And as you embark on your lives, never cease to be proud of you who you are and the principles you hold dear and stand by. Wear your values as your badge of honor. What youve done few have done before you. What youve done is incredible. What youve done is admired by all. So I want to congratulate you, Boy Scouts. Let your scouting oath guide your path from this day forward. Remember your duty, honor your history, take care of the people God put into your life, and love and cherish your great country. You are very special people. Youre special in the lives of America. Youre special to me. But if you do what we say, I promise you that you will live scoutings adventure every single day of your life, and you will win, win, win, and help people in doing so. Your lives will have meaning, and purpose and joy. You will become leaders, and you will inspire others to achieve the dreams they once thought were totally impossible. Things that you said could never, ever happen are already happening for you. And if you do these things, and if you refuse to give in to doubt or to fear, then you will help to make America great again, you will be proud of yourself, be proud of the uniform you wear, and be proud of the country you love.  And never, ever forget, America is proud of you. This is a very, very special occasion for me. Ive known so many Scouts over the years. Winners. Ive known so many great people. Theyve been taught so well, and they love the heritage. But this is very special for me. And I just want to end by saying, very importantly, God bless you. God bless the Boy Scouts. God Bless the United States of America. Go out, have a great time in life, compete, and go out and show me that there is nobody, nobody like a Boy Scout. Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much"
"Mr. Secretary General, Mr. President, world leaders, and distinguished delegates: Welcome to New York. It is a profound honor to stand here in my home city, as a representative of the American people, to address the people of the world. As millions of our citizens continue to suffer the effects of the devastating hurricanes that have struck our country, I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to every leader in this room who has offered assistance and aid. The American people are strong and resilient, and they will emerge from these hardships more determined than ever before. Fortunately, the United States has done very well since Election Day last November 8th. The stock market is at an all-time higha record. Unemployment is at its lowest level in 16 years, and because of our regulatory and other reforms, we have more people working in the United States today than ever before. Companies are moving back, creating job growth the likes of which our country has not seen in a very long time. And it has just been announced that we will be spending almost $700 billion on our military and defense. Our military will soon be the strongest it has ever been. For more than 70 years, in times of war and peace, the leaders of nations, movements, and religions have stood before this assembly. Like them, I intend to address some of the very serious threats before us today but also the enormous potential waiting to be unleashed. We live in a time of extraordinary opportunity. Breakthroughs in science, technology, and medicine are curing illnesses and solving problems that prior generations thought impossible to solve. But each day also brings news of growing dangers that threaten everything we cherish and value. Terrorists and extremists have gathered strength and spread to every region of the planet. Rogue regimes represented in this body not only support terrorists but threaten other nations and their own people with the most destructive weapons known to humanity. Authority and authoritarian powers seek to collapse the values, the systems, and alliances that prevented conflict and tilted the world toward freedom since World War II. International criminal networks traffic drugs, weapons, people; force dislocation and mass migration; threaten our borders; and new forms of aggression exploit technology to menace our citizens. To put it simply, we meet at a time of both of immense promise and great peril. It is entirely up to us whether we lift the world to new heights, or let it fall into a valley of disrepair. We have it in our power, should we so choose, to lift millions from poverty, to help our citizens realize their dreams, and to ensure that new generations of children are raised free from violence, hatred, and fear. This institution was founded in the aftermath of two world wars to help shape this better future. It was based on the vision that diverse nations could cooperate to protect their sovereignty, preserve their security, and promote their prosperity. It was in the same period, exactly 70 years ago, that the United States developed the Marshall Plan to help restore Europe. Those three beautiful pillarstheyre pillars of peace, sovereignty, security, and prosperity. The Marshall Plan was built on the noble idea that the whole world is safer when nations are strong, independent, and free. As President Truman said in his message to Congress at that time, Our support of European recovery is in full accord with our support of the United Nations. The success of the United Nations depends upon the independent strength of its members. To overcome the perils of the present and to achieve the promise of the future, we must begin with the wisdom of the past. Our success depends on a coalition of strong and independent nations that embrace their sovereignty to promote security, prosperity, and peace for themselves and for the world. We do not expect diverse countries to share the same cultures, traditions, or even systems of government. But we do expect all nations to uphold these two core sovereign duties: to respect the interests of their own people and the rights of every other sovereign nation. This is the beautiful vision of this institution, and this is foundation for cooperation and success. Strong, sovereign nations let diverse countries with different values, different cultures, and different dreams not just coexist, but work side by side on the basis of mutual respect. Strong, sovereign nations let their people take ownership of the future and control their own destiny. And strong, sovereign nations allow individuals to flourish in the fullness of the life intended by God. In America, we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to watch. This week gives our country a special reason to take pride in that example. We are celebrating the 230th anniversary of our beloved Constitutionthe oldest constitution still in use in the world today. This timeless document has been the foundation of peace, prosperity, and freedom for the Americans and for countless millions around the globe whose own countries have found inspiration in its respect for human nature, human dignity, and the rule of law. The greatest in the United States Constitution is its first three beautiful words. They are: We the people. Generations of Americans have sacrificed to maintain the promise of those words, the promise of our country, and of our great history. In America, the people govern, the people rule, and the people are sovereign. I was elected not to take power, but to give power to the American people, where it belongs. In foreign affairs, we are renewing this founding principle of sovereignty. Our governments first duty is to its people, to our citizensto serve their needs, to ensure their safety, to preserve their rights, and to defend their values. As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like you, as the leaders of your countries will always, and should always, put your countries first.  All responsible leaders have an obligation to serve their own citizens, and the nation-state remains the best vehicle for elevating the human condition. But making a better life for our people also requires us to work together in close harmony and unity to create a more safe and peaceful future for all people. The United States will forever be a great friend to the world, and especially to its allies. But we can no longer be taken advantage of, or enter into a one-sided deal where the United States gets nothing in return. As long as I hold this office, I will defend Americas interests above all else. But in fulfilling our obligations to our own nations, we also realize that its in everyones interest to seek a future where all nations can be sovereign, prosperous, and secure. America does more than speak for the values expressed in the United Nations Charter. Our citizens have paid the ultimate price to defend our freedom and the freedom of many nations represented in this great hall. Americas devotion is measured on the battlefields where our young men and women have fought and sacrificed alongside of our allies, from the beaches of Europe to the deserts of the Middle East to the jungles of Asia. It is an eternal credit to the American character that even after we and our allies emerged victorious from the bloodiest war in history, we did not seek territorial expansion, or attempt to oppose and impose our way of life on others. Instead, we helped build institutions such as this one to defend the sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all. For the diverse nations of the world, this is our hope. We want harmony and friendship, not conflict and strife. We are guided by outcomes, not ideology. We have a policy of principled realism, rooted in shared goals, interests, and values. That realism forces us to confront a question facing every leader and nation in this room. It is a question we cannot escape or avoid. We will slide down the path of complacency, numb to the challenges, threats, and even wars that we face. Or do we have enough strength and pride to confront those dangers today, so that our citizens can enjoy peace and prosperity tomorrow? If we desire to lift up our citizens, if we aspire to the approval of history, then we must fulfill our sovereign duties to the people we faithfully represent. We must protect our nations, their interests, and their futures. We must reject threats to sovereignty, from the Ukraine to the South China Sea. We must uphold respect for law, respect for borders, and respect for culture, and the peaceful engagement these allow. And just as the founders of this body intended, we must work together and confront together those who threaten us with chaos, turmoil, and terror. The scourge of our planet today is a small group of rogue regimes that violate every principle on which the United Nations is based. They respect neither their own citizens nor the sovereign rights of their countries. If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph. When decent people and nations become bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only gather power and strength. No one has shown more contempt for other nations and for the wellbeing of their own people than the depraved regime in North Korea. It is responsible for the starvation deaths of millions of North Koreans, and for the imprisonment, torture, killing, and oppression of countless more. We were all witness to the regimes deadly abuse when an innocent American college student, Otto Warmbier, was returned to America only to die a few days later. We saw it in the assassination of the dictators brother using banned nerve agents in an international airport. We know it kidnapped a sweet 13-year-old Japanese girl from a beach in her own country to enslave her as a language tutor for North Koreas spies. If this is not twisted enough, now North Koreas reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles threatens the entire world with unthinkable loss of human life. It is an outrage that some nations would not only trade with such a regime, but would arm, supply, and financially support a country that imperils the world with nuclear conflict. No nation on earth has an interest in seeing this band of criminals arm itself with nuclear weapons and missiles. The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea. Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime. The United States is ready, willing and able, but hopefully this will not be necessary. Thats what the United Nations is all about; thats what the United Nations is for. Lets see how they do. It is time for North Korea to realize that the denuclearization is its only acceptable future. The United Nations Security Council recently held two unanimous 15-0 votes adopting hard-hitting resolutions against North Korea, and I want to thank China and Russia for joining the vote to impose sanctions, along with all of the other members of the Security Council. Thank you to all involved. But we must do much more. It is time for all nations to work together to isolate the Kim regime until it ceases its hostile behavior. We face this decision not only in North Korea. It is far past time for the nations of the world to confront another reckless regimeone that speaks openly of mass murder, vowing death to America, destruction to Israel, and ruin for many leaders and nations in this room. The Iranian government masks a corrupt dictatorship behind the false guise of a democracy. It has turned a wealthy country with a rich history and culture into an economically depleted rogue state whose chief exports are violence, bloodshed, and chaos. The longest-suffering victims of Irans leaders are, in fact, its own people. Rather than use its resources to improve Iranian lives, its oil profits go to fund Hezbollah and other terrorists that kill innocent Muslims and attack their peaceful Arab and Israeli neighbors. This wealth, which rightly belongs to Irans people, also goes to shore up Bashar al-Assads dictatorship, fuel Yemens civil war, and undermine peace throughout the entire Middle East. We cannot let a murderous regime continue these destabilizing activities while building dangerous missiles, and we cannot abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual construction of a nuclear program.  The Iran Deal was one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into. Frankly, that deal is an embarrassment to the United States, and I dont think youve heard the last of itbelieve me. It is time for the entire world to join us in demanding that Irans government end its pursuit of death and destruction. It is time for the regime to free all Americans and citizens of other nations that they have unjustly detained. And above all, Irans government must stop supporting terrorists, begin serving its own people, and respect the sovereign rights of its neighbors. The entire world understands that the good people of Iran want change, and, other than the vast military power of the United States, that Irans people are what their leaders fear the most. This is what causes the regime to restrict Internet access, tear down satellite dishes, shoot unarmed student protestors, and imprison political reformers. Oppressive regimes cannot endure forever, and the day will come when the Iranian people will face a choice. Will they continue down the path of poverty, bloodshed, and terror? Or will the Iranian people return to the nations proud roots as a center of civilization, culture, and wealth where their people can be happy and prosperous once again? The Iranian regimes support for terror is in stark contrast to the recent commitments of many of its neighbors to fight terrorism and halt its financing. In Saudi Arabia early last year, I was greatly honored to address the leaders of more than 50 Arab and Muslim nations. We agreed that all responsible nations must work together to confront terrorists and the Islamist extremism that inspires them. We will stop radical Islamic terrorism because we cannot allow it to tear up our nation, and indeed to tear up the entire world. We must deny the terrorists safe haven, transit, funding, and any form of support for their vile and sinister ideology. We must drive them out of our nations. It is time to expose and hold responsible those countries who support and finance terror groups like al Qaeda, Hezbollah, the Taliban and others that s  innocent people. The United States and our allies are working together throughout the Middle East to crush the loser terrorists and stop the reemergence of safe havens they use to launch attacks on all of our people. Last month, I announced a new strategy for victory in the fight against this evil in Afghanistan. From now on, our security interests will dictate the length and scope of military operations, not arbitrary benchmarks and timetables set up by politicians. I have also totally changed the rules of engagement in our fight against the Taliban and other terrorist groups. In Syria and Iraq, we have made big gains toward lasting defeat of ISIS. In fact, our country has achieved more against ISIS in the last eight months than it has in many, many years combined. We seek the de-escalation of the Syrian conflict, and a political solution that honors the will of the Syrian people. The actions of the criminal regime of Bashar al-Assad, including the use of chemical weapons against his own citizenseven innocent childrenshock the conscience of every decent person. No society can be safe if banned chemical weapons are allowed to spread. That is why the United States carried out a missile strike on the airbase that launched the attack. We appreciate the efforts of United Nations agencies that are providing vital humanitarian assistance in areas liberated from ISIS, and we especially thank Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon for their role in hosting refugees from the Syrian conflict. The United States is a compassionate nation and has spent billions and billions of dollars in helping to support this effort. We seek an approach to refugee resettlement that is designed to help these horribly treated people, and which enables their eventual return to their home countries, to be part of the rebuilding process. For the cost of resettling one refugee in the United States, we can assist more than 10 in their home region. Out of the goodness of our hearts, we offer financial assistance to hosting countries in the region, and we support recent agreements of the G20 nations that will seek to host refugees as close to their home countries as possible. This is the safe, responsible, and humanitarian approach. For decades, the United States has dealt with migration challenges here in the Western Hemisphere. We have learned that, over the long term, uncontrolled migration is deeply unfair to both the sending and the receiving countries. For the sending countries, it reduces domestic pressure to pursue needed political and economic reform, and drains them of the human capital necessary to motivate and implement those reforms. For the receiving countries, the substantial costs of uncontrolled migration are borne overwhelmingly by low-income citizens whose concerns are often ignored by both media and government. I want to salute the work of the United Nations in seeking to address the problems that cause people to flee from their homes. The United Nations and African Union led peacekeeping missions to have invaluable contributions in stabilizing conflicts in Africa. The United States continues to lead the world in humanitarian assistance, including famine prevention and relief in South Sudan, Somalia, and northern Nigeria and Yemen. We have invested in better health and opportunity all over the world through programs like PEPFAR, which funds AIDS relief; the Presidents Malaria Initiative; the Global Health Security Agenda; the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery; and the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, part of our commitment to empowering women all across the globe. We also thank( )we also thank the Secretary General for recognizing that the United Nations must reform if it is to be an effective partner in confronting threats to sovereignty, security, and prosperity. Too often the focus of this organization has not been on results, but on bureaucracy and process. In some cases, states that seek to subvert this institutions noble aims have hijacked the very systems that are supposed to advance them. For example, it is a massive source of embarrassment to the United Nations that some governments with egregious human rights records sit on the U.N. Human Rights Council. The United States is one out of 193 countries in the United Nations, and yet we pay 22 percent of the entire budget and more. In fact, we pay far more than anybody realizes. The United States bears an unfair cost burden, but, to be fair, if it could actually accomplish all of its stated goals, especially the goal of peace, this investment would easily be well worth it. Major portions of the world are in conflict and some, in fact, are going to hell. But the powerful people in this room, under the guidance and auspices of the United Nations, can solve many of these vicious and complex problems. The American people hope that one day soon the United Nations can be a much more accountable and effective advocate for human dignity and freedom around the world. In the meantime, we believe that no nation should have to bear a disproportionate share of the burden, militarily or financially. Nations of the world must take a greater role in promoting secure and prosperous societies in their own regions. That is why in the Western Hemisphere, the United States has stood against the corrupt and destabilizing regime in Cuba and embraced the enduring dream of the Cuban people to live in freedom. My administration recently announced that we will not lift sanctions on the Cuban government until it makes fundamental reforms. We have also imposed tough, calibrated sanctions on the socialist Maduro regime in Venezuela, which has brought a once thriving nation to the brink of total collapse. The socialist dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro has inflicted terrible pain and suffering on the good people of that country. This corrupt regime destroyed a prosperous nation by imposing a failed ideology that has produced poverty and misery everywhere it has been tried. To make matters worse, Maduro has defied his own people, stealing power from their elected representatives to preserve his disastrous rule. The Venezuelan people are starving and their country is collapsing. Their democratic institutions are being destroyed. This situation is completely unacceptable and we cannot stand by and watch. As a responsible neighbor and friend, we and all others have a goal. That goal is to help them regain their freedom, recover their country, and restore their democracy. I would like to thank leaders in this room for condemning the regime and providing vital support to the Venezuelan people. The United States has taken important steps to hold the regime accountable. We are prepared to take further action if the government of Venezuela persists on its path to impose authoritarian rule on the Venezuelan people. We are fortunate to have incredibly strong and healthy trade relationships with many of the Latin American countries gathered here today. Our economic bond forms a critical foundation for advancing peace and prosperity for all of our people and all of our neighbors. I ask every country represented here today to be prepared to do more to address this very real crisis. We call for the full restoration of democracy and political freedoms in Venezuela.  The problem in Venezuela is not that socialism has been poorly implemented, but that socialism has been faithfully implemented.  From the Soviet Union to Cuba to Venezuela, wherever true socialism or communism has been adopted, it has delivered anguish and devastation and failure. Those who preach the tenets of these discredited ideologies only contribute to the continued suffering of the people who live under these cruel systems. America stands with every person living under a brutal regime. Our respect for sovereignty is also a call for action. All people deserve a government that cares for their safety, their interests, and their wellbeing, including their prosperity. In America, we seek stronger ties of business and trade with all nations of good will, but this trade must be fair and it must be reciprocal. For too long, the American people were told that mammoth multinational trade deals, unaccountable international tribunals, and powerful global bureaucracies were the best way to promote their success. But as those promises flowed, millions of jobs vanished and thousands of factories disappeared. Others gamed the system and broke the rules. And our great middle class, once the bedrock of American prosperity, was forgotten and left behind, but they are forgotten no more and they will never be forgotten again. While America will pursue cooperation and commerce with other nations, we are renewing our commitment to the first duty of every government: the duty of our citizens. This bond is the source of Americas strength and that of every responsible nation represented here today. If this organization is to have any hope of successfully confronting the challenges before us, it will depend, as President Truman said some 70 years ago, on the independent strength of its members. If we are to embrace the opportunities of the future and overcome the present dangers together, there can be no substitute for strong, sovereign, and independent nationsnations that are rooted in their histories and invested in their destinies; nations that seek allies to befriend, not enemies to conquer; and most important of all, nations that are home to patriots, to men and women who are willing to sacrifice for their countries, their fellow citizens, and for all that is best in the human spirit. In remembering the great victory that led to this bodys founding, we must never forget that those heroes who fought against evil also fought for the nations that they loved. Patriotism led the Poles to die to save Poland, the French to fight for a free France, and the Brits to stand strong for Britain. Today, if we do not invest ourselves, our hearts, and our minds in our nations, if we will not build strong families, safe communities, and healthy societies for ourselves, no one can do it for us. We cannot wait for someone else, for faraway countries or far-off bureaucratswe cant do it. We must solve our problems, to build our prosperity, to secure our futures, or we will be vulnerable to decay, domination, and defeat. The true question for the United Nations today, for people all over the world who hope for better lives for themselves and their children, is a basic one: Are we still patriots? Do we love our nations enough to protect their sovereignty and to take ownership of their futures? Do we revere them enough to defend their interests, preserve their cultures, and ensure a peaceful world for their citizens? One of the greatest American patriots, John Adams, wrote that the American Revolution was effected before the war commenced. The Revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people. That was the moment when America awoke, when we looked around and understood that we were a nation. We realized who we were, what we valued, and what we would give our lives to defend. From its very first moments, the American story is the story of what is possible when people take ownership of their future. The United States of America has been among the greatest forces for good in the history of the world, and the greatest defenders of sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all. Now we are calling for a great reawakening of nations, for the revival of their spirits, their pride, their people, and their patriotism. History is asking us whether we are up to the task. Our answer will be a renewal of will, a rediscovery of resolve, and a rebirth of devotion. We need to defeat the enemies of humanity and unlock the potential of life itself. Our hope is a word andworld of proud, independent nations that embrace their duties, seek friendship, respect others, and make common cause in the greatest shared interest of all: a future of dignity and peace for the people of this wonderful Earth. This is the true vision of the United Nations, the ancient wish of every people, and the deepest yearning that lives inside every sacred soul. So let this be our mission, and let this be our message to the world: We will fight together, sacrifice together, and stand together for peace, for freedom, for justice, for family, for humanity, and for the almighty God who made us all. Thank you. God bless you. God bless the nations of the world. And God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Please. I want to thank Vice President Pence, along with the many members of my Cabinet here with us today. I also want to thank all of the dedicated professionalsmilitary, civilian, and law enforcementwho devote their lives to serving our nation. In particular, I want to recognize General Dunford and the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Thank you, thank you, thank you.  In addition, we are honored to be joined by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Homeland Security Chairman Mike McCaul, and Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn. Thank you very much. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Thank you.  Let me begin by expressing our deepest sympathies and most heartfelt prayers for the victims of the train derailment in Washington State. We are closely monitoring the situation and coordinating with local authorities. It is all the more reason why we must start immediately fixing the infrastructure of the United States. Were here today to discuss matters of vital importance to us all: Americas security, prosperity, and standing in the world. I want to talk about where weve been, where we are now, and, finally, our strategy for where we are going in the years ahead. Over the past 11 months, I have traveled tens of thousands of miles to visit 13 countries. I have met with more than 100 world leaders. I have carried Americas message to a grand hall in Saudi Arabia, a great square in Warsaw, to the General Assembly of the United Nations, and to the seat of democracy on the Korean Peninsula. Everywhere I traveled, it was my highest privilege and greatest honor to represent the American people. Throughout our history, the American people have always been the true source of American greatness. Our people have promoted our culture and promoted our values. Americans have fought and sacrificed on the battlefields all over the world. We have liberated captive nations, transformed former enemies into the best of friends, and lifted entire regions of the planet from poverty to prosperity. Because of our people, America has been among the greatest forces for peace and justice in the history of the world. The American people are generous. You are determined, you are brave, you are strong, and you are wise. When the American people speak, all of us should listen. And just over one year ago, you spoke loud and you spoke clear. On November 8, 2016, you voted to make America great again.  You embraced new leadership and very new strategies, and also a glorious new hope. That is why we are here today. But to seize the opportunities of the future, we must first understand the failures of the past. For many years, our citizens watched as Washington politicians presided over one disappointment after another. To many of our leadersso many who forgot whose voices they were to respect and whose interests they were supposed to defendour leaders in Washington negotiated disastrous trade deals that brought massive profits to many foreign nations, but sent thousands of American factories, and millions of American jobs, to those other countries. Our leaders engaged in nation-building abroad, while they failed to build up and replenish our nation at home. They undercut and shortchanged our men and women in uniform with inadequate resources, unstable funding, and unclear missions. They failed to insist that our often very wealthy allies pay their fair share for defense, putting a massive and unfair burden on the U.S. taxpayer and our great U.S. military. They neglected a nuclear menace in North Korea; made a disastrous, weak, and incomprehensibly bad deal with Iran; and allowed terrorists such as ISIS to gain control of vast parts of territory all across the Middle East. They put American energy under lock and key. They imposed punishing regulations and crippling taxes. They surrendered our sovereignty to foreign bureaucrats in faraway and distant capitals. And over the profound objections of the American people, our politicians left our borders wide open. Millions of immigrants entered illegally. Millions more were admitted into our country without the proper vetting needed to protect our security and our economy. Leaders in Washington imposed on the country an immigration policy that Americans never voted for, never asked for, and never approveda policy where the wrong people are allowed into our country and the right people are rejected. American citizens, as usual, have been left to bear the cost and to pick up the tab. On top of everything else, our leaders drifted from American principles. They lost sight of Americas destiny. And they lost their belief in American greatness. As a result, our citizens lost something as well. The people lost confidence in their government and, eventually, even lost confidence in their future. But last year, all of that began to change. The American people rejected the failures of the past. You rediscovered your voice and reclaimed ownership of this nation and its destiny. On January 20th, 2017, I stood on the steps of the Capitol to herald the day the people became the rulers of their nation again.  Thank you. Now, less than one year later, I am proud to report that the entire world has heard the news and has already seen the signs. America is coming back, and America is coming back strong. Upon my inauguration, I announced that the United States would return to a simple principle: The first duty of our government is to serve its citizens, many of whom have been forgotten. But they are not forgotten anymore. With every decision and every action, we are now putting America first. We are rebuilding our nation, our confidence, and our standing in the world. We have moved swiftly to confront our challenges, and we have confronted them head-on. We are once again investing in our defensealmost $700 billion, a record, this coming year. We are demanding extraordinary strength, which will hopefully lead to long and extraordinary peace. We are giving our courageous military men and women the support they need and so dearly deserve. We have withdrawn the United States from job-killing deals such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the very expensive and unfair Paris Climate Accord. And on our trip to Asia last month, I announced that we will no longer tolerate trading abuse. We have established strict new vetting procedures to keep terrorists out of the United States, and our vetting is getting tougher each month. To counter Iran and block its path to a nuclear weapon, I sanctioned the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps for its support of terrorism, and I declined to certify the Iran Deal to Congress. Following my trip to the Middle East, the Gulf states and other Muslim-majority nations joined together to fight radical Islamist ideology and terrorist financing. We have dealt ISIS one devastating defeat after another. The coalition to defeat ISIS has now recaptured almost 100 percent of the land once held by these terrorists in Iraq and Syria. Great job.  Great job. Really good. Thank you. Thank you. We have a great military. Were now chasing them wherever they flee, and we will not let them into the United States. In Afghanistan, our troops are no longer undermined by artificial timelines, and we no longer tell our enemies of our plans. We are beginning to see results on the battlefield. And we have made clear to Pakistan that while we desire continued partnership, we must see decisive action against terrorist groups operating on their territory. And we make massive payments every year to Pakistan. They have to help. Our efforts to strengthen the NATO Alliance set the stage for significant increases in member contributions, with tens of billions of dollars more pouring in because I would not allow member states to be delinquent in the payment while we guarantee their safety and are willing to fight wars for them. We have made clear that countries that are immensely wealthy should reimburse the United States for the cost of defending them. This is a major departure from the past, but a fair and necessary onenecessary for our country, necessary for our taxpayer, necessary for our own thought process. Our campaign of maximum pressure on the North Korean regime has resulted in the toughest-ever sanctions. We have united our allies in an unprecedented effort to isolate North Korea. However, there is much more work to do. America and its allies will take all necessary steps to achieve a denuclearization and ensure that this regime cannot threaten the world.  Thank you. This situation should have been taken care of long before I got into office, when it was much easier to handle. But it will be taken care of. We have no choice. At home, we are keeping our promises and liberating the American economy. We have created more than 2 million jobs since the election. Unemployment is at a 17-year-low. The stock market is at an all-time high and, just a little while ago, hit yet another all-time highthe 85th time since my election.  We have cut 22 regulations for every one new regulation, the most in the history of our country. We have unlocked Americas vast energy resources. As the world watchesand the world is indeed watchingwe are days away from passing historic tax cuts for American families and businesses. It will be the biggest tax cut and tax reform in the history of our country.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we are seeing the response we fully expected. Economic growth has topped 3 percent for two quarters in a row. GDP growth, which is way ahead of schedule under my administration, will be one of Americas truly greatest weapons. Optimism has surged. Confidence has returned. With this new confidence, we are also bringing back clarity to our thinking. We are reasserting these fundamental truths: A nation without borders is not a nation.  A nation that does not protect prosperity at home cannot protect its interests abroad. A nation that is not prepared to win a war is a nation not capable of preventing a war. A nation that is not proud of its history cannot be confident in its future. And a nation that is not certain of its values cannot summon the will to defend them. Today, grounded in these truths, we are presenting to the world our new National Security Strategy. Based on my direction, this document has been in development for over a year. It has the endorsement of my entire Cabinet. Our new strategy is based on a principled realism, guided by our vital national interests, and rooted in our timeless values. This strategy recognizes that, whether we like it or not, we are engaged in a new era of competition. We accept that vigorous military, economic, and political contests are now playing out all around the world. We face rogue regimes that threaten the United States and our allies. We face terrorist organizations, transnational criminal networks, and others who spread violence and evil around the globe. We also face rival powers, Russia and China, that seek to challenge American influence, values, and wealth. We will attempt to build a great partnership with those and other countries, but in a manner that always protects our national interest. As an example, yesterday I received a call from President Putin of Russia thanking our country for the intelligence that our CIA was able to provide them concerning a major terrorist attack planned in St. Petersburg, where many people, perhaps in the thousands, could have been killed. They were able to apprehend these terrorists before the event, with no loss of life. And thats a great thing, and the way its supposed to work. That is the way its supposed to work. But while we seek such opportunities of cooperation, we will stand up for ourselves, and we will stand up for our country like we have never stood up before.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We know that American success is not a forgone conclusion. It must be earned and it must be won. Our rivals are tough, theyre tenacious, and committed to the long term. But so are we. To succeed, we must integrate every dimension of our national strength, and we must compete with every instrument of our national power. Under the Trump administration, America is gaining wealth, leading to enhanced powerfaster than anyone thoughtwith $6 trillion more in the stock market alone since the election$6 trillion. With the strategy I am announcing today, we are declaring that America is in the game and America is going to win.  Thank you. Our strategy advances four vital national interests. First, we must protect the American people, the homeland, and our great American way of life. This strategy recognizes that we cannot secure our nation if we do not secure our borders. So for the first time ever, American strategy now includes a serious plan to defend our homeland. It calls for the construction of a wall on our southern border; ending chain migration and the horrible visa and lottery programs; closing loopholes that undermine enforcement; and strongly supporting our Border Patrol agents, ICE officers, and Homeland Security personnel.  In addition, our strategy calls for us to confront, discredit, and defeat radical Islamic terrorism and ideology and to prevent it from spreading into the United States. And we will develop new ways to counter those who use new domains, such as cyber and social media, to attack our nation or threaten our society. The second pillar of our strategy is to promote American prosperity. For the first time, American strategy recognizes that economic security is national security. Economic vitality, growth, and prosperity at home is absolutely necessary for American power and influence abroad. Any nation that trades away its prosperity for security will end up losing both. That is why this National Security Strategy emphasizes, more than any before, the critical steps we must take to ensure the prosperity of our nation for a long, long time to come. It calls for cutting taxes and rolling back unnecessary regulations. It calls for trade based on the principles of fairness and reciprocity. It calls for firm action against unfair trade practices and intellectual property theft. And it calls for new steps to protect our national security industrial and innovation base. The strategy proposes a complete rebuilding of American infrastructureour roads, bridges, airports, waterways, and communications infrastructure. And it embraces a future of American energy dominance and self-sufficiency. The third pillar of our strategy is to preserve peace through strength.  We recognize that weakness is the surest path to conflict, and unrivaled power is the most certain means of defense. For this reason, our strategy breaks from the damaging defense sequester. Were going to get rid of that.  It calls for a total modernization of our military, and reversing previous decisions to shrink our armed forceseven as threats to national security grew. It calls for streamlining acquisition, eliminating bloated bureaucracy, and massively building up our military, which has the fundamental side benefit of creating millions and millions of jobs. This strategy includes plans to counter modern threats, such as cyber and electromagnetic attacks. It recognizes space as a competitive domain and calls for multi-layered missile defense.  This strategy outlines important steps to address new forms of conflict such as economic and political aggression. And our strategy emphasizes strengthening alliances to cope with these threats. It recognizes that our strength is magnified by allies who share principlesand our principlesand shoulder their fair share of responsibility for our common security. Fourth and finally, our strategy is to advance American influence in the world, but this begins with building up our wealth and power at home. America will lead again. We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but we will champion the values without apology. We want strong alliances and partnerships based on cooperation and reciprocity. We will make new partnerships with those who share our goals, and make common interests into a common cause. We will not allow inflexible ideology to become an obsolete and obstacle to peace. We will pursue the vision we have carried around the world over this past yeara vision of strong, sovereign, and independent nations that respect their citizens and respect their neighbors; nations that thrive in commerce and cooperation, rooted in their histories and branching out toward their destinies. That is the future we wish for this world, and that is the future we seek in America.  With this strategy, we are calling for a great reawakening of America, a resurgence of confidence, and a rebirth of patriotism, prosperity, and pride. And we are returning to the wisdom of our founders. In America, the people govern, the people rule, and the people are sovereign. What we have built here in America is precious and unique. In all of history, never before has freedom reigned, the rule of law prevailed, and the people thrived as we have here for nearly 250 years. We must love and defend it. We must guard it with vigilance and spirit, and, if necessary, like so many before us, with our very lives. And we declare that our will is renewed, our future is regained, and our dreams are restored. Every American has a role to play in this grand national effort. And today, I invite every citizen to take their part in our vital mission. Together, our task is to strengthen our families, to build up our communities, to serve our citizens, and to celebrate American greatness as a shining example to the world. As long as we are proudand very proudof who we are, how we got here, and what we are fighting for to preserve, we will not fail. If we do all of this, if we rediscover our resolve and commit ourselves to compete and win again, then together we will leave our children and our grandchildren a nation that is stronger, better, freer, prouder, and, yes, an America that is greater than ever before. God Bless You. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Thank you, Klaus, very much. Its a privilege to be here at this forum where leaders in business, science, art, diplomacy, and world affairs have gathered for many, many years to discuss how we can advance prosperity, security, and peace. Im here today to represent the interests of the American people and to affirm Americas friendship and partnership in building a better world. Like all nations represented at this great forum, America hopes for a future in which everyone can prosper, and every child can grow up free from violence, poverty, and fear. Over the past year, we have made extraordinary strides in the U.S. Were lifting up forgotten communities, creating exciting new opportunities, and helping every American find their path to the American Dreamthe dream of a great job, a safe home, and a better life for their children. After years of stagnation, the United States is once again experiencing strong economic growth. The stock market is smashing one record after another, and has added more than $7 trillion in new wealth since my election. Consumer confidence, business confidence, and manufacturing confidence are the highest they have been in many decades. Since my election, weve created 2.4 million jobs, and that number is going up very, very substantially. Small-business optimism is at an all-time high. New unemployment claims are near the lowest weve seen in almost half a century. African American unemployment has reached the lowest rate ever recorded in the United States, and so has unemployment among Hispanic Americans. The world is witnessing the resurgence of a strong and prosperous America. Im here to deliver a simple message: There has never been a better time to hire, to build, to invest, and to grow in the United States. America is open for business, and we are competitive once again. The American economy is by far the largest in the world, and weve just enacted the most significant tax cuts and reform in American history. Weve massively cut taxes for the middle class and small businesses to let working families keep more of their hard-earned money. We lowered our corporate tax rate from 35 percent, all the way down to 21 percent. As a result, millions of workers have received tax cut bonuses from their employers in amounts as large as $3,000. The tax cut bill is expected to raise the average Americans household income by more than $4,000. The worlds largest company, Apple, announced plans to bring $245 billion in overseas profits home to America. Their total investment into the United States economy will be more than $350 billion over the next five years. Now is the perfect time to bring your business, your jobs, and your investments to the United States. This is especially true because we have undertaken the most extensive regulatory reduction ever conceived. Regulation is stealth taxation. The U.S., like many other countries, unelected bureaucratsand we havebelieve me, we have them all over the placeand theyve imposed crushing and anti-business and anti-worker regulations on our citizens with no vote, no legislative debate, and no real accountability. In America, those days are over. I pledged to eliminate two unnecessary regulations for every one new regulation. We have succeeded beyond our highest expectations. Instead of 2 for 1, we have cut 22 burdensome regulations for every 1 new rule. We are freeing our businesses and workers so they can thrive and flourish as never before. We are creating an environment that attracts capital, invites investment, and rewards production. America is the place to do business. So come to America, where you can innovate, create, and build. I believe in America. As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like the leaders of other countries should put their country first also. But America first does not mean America alone. When the United States grows, so does the world. American prosperity has created countless jobs all around the globe, and the drive for excellence, creativity, and innovation in the U.S. has led to important discoveries that help people everywhere live more prosperous and far healthier lives. As the United States pursues domestic reforms to unleash jobs and growth, we are also working to reform the international trading system so that it promotes broadly shared prosperity and rewards to those who play by the rules. We cannot have free and open trade if some countries exploit the system at the expense of others. We support free trade, but it needs to be fair and it needs to be reciprocal. Because, in the end, unfair trade undermines us all. The United States will no longer turn a blind eye to unfair economic practices, including massive intellectual property theft, industrial subsidies, and pervasive state-led economic planning. These and other predatory behaviors are distorting the global markets and harming businesses and workers, not just in the U.S., but around the globe. Just like we expect the leaders of other countries to protect their interests, as President of the United States, I will always protect the interests of our country, our companies, and our workers. We will enforce our trade laws and restore integrity to our trading system. Only by insisting on fair and reciprocal trade can we create a system that works not just for the U.S. but for all nations. As I have said, the United States is prepared to negotiate mutually beneficial, bilateral trade agreements with all countries. This will include the countries in TPP, which are very important. We have agreements with several of them already. We would consider negotiating with the rest, either individually, or perhaps as a group, if it is in the interests of all. My administration is also taking swift action in other ways to restore American confidence and independence. We are lifting self-imposed restrictions on energy production to provide affordable power to our citizens and businesses, and to promote energy security for our friends all around the world. No country should be held hostage to a single provider of energy. America is roaring back, and now is the time to invest in the future of America. We have dramatically cut taxes to make America competitive. We are eliminating burdensome regulations at a record pace. We are reforming the bureaucracy to make it lean, responsive, and accountable. And we are ensuring our laws are enforced fairly. We have the best colleges and universities in the world, and we have the best workers in the world. Energy is abundant and affordable. There has never been a better time to come to America. We are also making historic investments in the American military because we cannot have prosperity without security. To make the world safer from rogue regimes, terrorism, and revisionist powers, we are asking our friends and allies to invest in their own defenses and to meet their financial obligations. Our common security requires everyone to contribute their fair share. My administration is proud to have led historic efforts, at the United Nations Security Council and all around the world, to unite all civilized nations in our campaign of maximum pressure to de-nuke the Korean Peninsula. We continue to call on partners to confront Irans support for terrorists and block Irans path to a nuclear weapon. Were also working with allies and partners to destroy jihadist terrorist organizations such as ISIS, and very successfully so. The United States is leading a very broad coalition to deny terrorists control of their territory and populations, to cut off their funding, and to discredit their wicked ideology. I am pleased to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has retaken almost 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria. There is still more fighting and work to be done and to consolidate our gains. We are committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists who want to commit mass murder to our civilian populations. I want to thank those nations represented here today that have joined in these crucial efforts. You are not just securing your own citizens, but saving lives and restoring hope for millions and millions of people. When it comes to terrorism, we will do whatever is necessary to protect our nation. We will defend our citizens and our borders. We are also securing our immigration system, as a matter of both national and economic security. America is a cutting-edge economy, but our immigration system is stuck in the past. We must replace our current system of extended-family chain migration with a merit-based system of admissions that selects new arrivals based on their ability to contribute to our economy, to support themselves financially, and to strengthen our country. In rebuilding America, we are also fully committed to developing our workforce. We are lifting people from dependence to independence, because we know the single best anti-poverty program is a very simple and very beautiful paycheck. To be successful, it is not enough to invest in our economy. We must invest in our people. When people are forgotten, the world becomes fractured.  Only by hearing and responding to the voices of the forgotten can we create a bright future that is truly shared by all. The nations greatness is more than the sum of its production. A nations greatness is the sum of its citizens: the values, pride, love, devotion, and character of the people who call that nation home. From my first international G7 Summit, to the G20, to the U.N. General Assembly, to APEC, to the World Trade Organization, and today at the World Economic Forum, my administration has not only been present, but has driven our message that we are all stronger when free, sovereign nations cooperate toward shared goals and they cooperate toward shared dreams. Represented in this room are some of the remarkable citizens from all over the world. You are national leaders, business titans, industry giants, and many of the brightest minds in many fields. Each of you has the power to change hearts, transform lives, and shape your countries destinies. With this power comes an obligation, however a duty of loyalty to the people, workers, and customers who have made you who you are. So together, let us resolve to use our power, our resources, and our voices, not just for ourselves, but for our people to lift their burdens, to raise their hopes, and to empower their dreams; to protect their families, their communities, their histories, and their futures. Thats what were doing in America, and the results are totally unmistakable. Its why new businesses and investment are flooding in.  Its why our unemployment rate is the lowest its been in so many decades. Its why Americas future has never been brighter. Today, I am inviting all of you to become part of this incredible future we are building together. Thank you to our hosts, thank you to the leaders and innovators in the audience. But most importantly, thank you to all of the hardworking men and women who do their duty each and every day, making this a better world for everyone. Together, let us send our love and our gratitude to make them, because they really make our countries run. They make our countries great. Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  Well, first of all, Klaus, I want to congratulate you. This is an incredible group of people. We had dinner last night with about 15 leaders of industry, none of whom I knew, but all of whom Ive read about for years. And it was truly an incredible group. But I think I have 15 new friends. So this has been really great what youve done and putting it together, the economic forum. The tax reform was a dream of a lot of people over many years, but they werent able to get it done. Many people tried, and Ronald Reagan was really the last to make a meaningful cut and reform. And ours is cutting and reforming. We emphasize cut, but the reform is probably almost as important. Weve wanted to do it. It is very tough, politically, to do it. Hard to believe that would be, but it is very, very tough. Thats why it hasnt been done in close to 40 years. And once we got it going, it was going. And the bigand I wouldnt say a total surprise, but one of the big things that happened and took place is AT&T and some others came out very early and they said they were going to pay thousands and thousands of dollars to people that work for their companies. And you have 300,000, 400,000, 500,000 people working for these companies, and all of a sudden it became like a big waterfall, a big, beautiful waterfall where so many companies are doing it. And even today they just announced many more. But every day they announce more and more. And now its a fight for whos going to give the most. It started at 1,000, and now we have them up to 3,000. This is something that we didnt anticipate. Oftentimes in business, things happen that you dont anticipate. Usually thats a bad thing, but this was a good thing. This came out of nowhere. Nobody ever thought of this as a possibility even. It wasnt in the equation. We waitedwe said, wait until February 1st when the checks start coming in. And people, Klaus, have a lot more money in their paycheckbecause its not just a little money, this is a lot of money for people making a living doing whatever they may be doing. And we really though February 1st it was going to kick in and everybody was going to bewell, we havent even gotten there yet and its kicked in. And its had an incredible impact on the stock market and the stock prices. Weve set 84 records since my electionrecord stock market prices, meaning we hit new highs 84 different times out of a one-year period. And thats a great thing. And in all fairness, that was done before we passed the tax cuts and tax reform. So what happened is really something special. Then, as you know, and as I just said, Apple came in with $350 billion. And I tell you, I spoke with Tim Cook; I said, Tim, I will never consider this whole great run that weve made complete until you start building plants in the U.S. And I will tell you, this moved up very substantially. But when I heard 350, I thought he was talkingI thought they were talking $350 million. And, by the way, thats a nice-sized plant. Not the greatest, but not bad. And they said, No, sir. Its $350 billion. I said, that is something. Well, we have tremendous amounts of money, including my newfound friends from last night great companies. Theyre all investing. When one of the gentlemen said hes putting in $2 billion because of the tax cuts, I said to myself, Wow, hes actually the cheap one in the group because theyre putting in massive numbers of billions of dollars. So I think you have a brand-new United States. You have a United States where people from all over the world are looking to come in and invest, and theres just nothing like whats happening. And I just want to finish by I have a group of people that have been so I have a whole lot of them, so I wont introduce because then Ill insult at least half of them. But Ive had a group of people that worked so hard on this and other things. And were really doing we had a great first year so successful in so many different ways. And theres a tremendous spirit. When you look at all of the different charts and polls, and you see, as an example, African American unemployment at the historic lowits never had a period of time like this. Same with Hispanic. Women at a 17-year low. Its very heartwarming to see. But theres a tremendous spirit in the United States. I would say its a spirit like I have never witnessed before. Ive been here for awhile. I have never witnessed the spirit that our country has right now. So I just want to thank you all, and all those that are pouring billions of dollars into our country, or ten dollars into our country, we thank you very much. Thank you.  Sounds very interesting.  I didnt know about this one.  Yes.  Good, I would like to do that. Thats very nice.  Steven, Wilbur, Gary, Robert, even my General and my various other generals, you know. Were making our military protection a little bit better for us too. So thank you very much. Does everybody understand that? I think so. Thank you all for being here.  Well, being a businessman has been a great experience for me. Ive loved it. Ive always loved business. Ive always been good at building things, and Ive always been successful at making money. Id buy things that would failthat would be failuresand Id turn them around and try and get them for the right price, and then Id turn them around and make them successful. And Ive been good at it. And that takes a certain ability. And, you know, historically, I guess, theres never really been a businessman or businessperson elected president. Its always been a general or a politician. Throughout history, its always been a general you had to be a general but mostly it was politicians. You never have a businessman. And then, in all fairness, I was saying to Klaus last night: Had the opposing party to me wonsome of whom you backed, some of the people in the roominstead of being up almost 50 percentthe stock market is up since my election almost 50 percentrather than that, I believe the stock market from that level, the initial level, would have been down close to 50 percent. Thats where we were heading. I really believe thatbecause they were going to put on massive new regulations. You couldnt breathe. It was choking our country to death. And I was able to see that, Klaus, as a businessperson. The other thing is, Ive always seemed to get, for whatever reason, a disproportionate amount of press or media.  Throughout my whole lifesomebody will explain someday whybut Ive always gotten a lot.  And as businessman I was always treated really well by the press. The numbers speak and things happen, but Ive always really had a very good press. And it wasnt until I became a politician that I realized how nasty, how mean, how vicious, and how fake the press can be. As the cameras start going off in the background.  But overallI mean, the bottom linesomebody said, well, they couldnt have been that bad because here we arewere president. And I think were doing a really great job with my team. I have a team of just tremendous people, and I think were doing a very special job. And I really believe it was time, and it was time to do that job, because I dont think the United States would have done very well if it went through four or eight more years of regulation and, really, a very anti-business group of people. We have a very pro-business group. We have regulations cut to a levelin the history of our country, Klausthis was reported recently. In one year weve cut more regulations in my administration than any other administration in four, eight, or sixteen years, in the one case. Weve cut more regulations in one year, and we have a ways to go. I mean, were probably 50 percent done. And were going to have regulation. Theres nothing wrong with rules and regulations; you need them. But weve cut more than any administration ever in the history of our country, and we still have a ways to go. So I think between that and the tremendous tax cuts, weve really done something. And one other thing I saidand I saw it last night with some of the leaders and the businesspeopleI think Ive been a cheerleader for our country, and everybody representing a company or a country has to be a cheerleader, or no matter what you do, its just not going to work. And the reason Im a cheerleader is because its easybecause I love our country and I think were just doing really well. And we look forward to seeing you in Americaspecial placeand where you are is a special place also. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it.   Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you."
"Thank you, Paul and Mitch, for the introduction and for your tremendous leadership. You folks have done well. I just looked at some numbers. Youve even done better than you thought, I think( )based on what we just saw about 10 minutes ago. And I want to thank you, to the Governor of this incredible state, my very good friend, Jim Justice and his wonderful wife, Cathy, who are with us. And Jim is now a proud member of the Republican Party. He was a Democrat. He switched over, right?  You dont see that too often. Maybe well see it more and more. But thank you, Jim. And the hotel is beautiful, and everything is beautiful. We appreciate it. Its great to be among so many friends for the second time this week. Tuesday was an incredible evening, as we were all inspired.  And I really mean that. We were inspired by Americas heroes and uplifted by everyone who has sacrificed in the fight for freedom. They were, and are, incredible people that we saw that night, and tremendous courage. And one of the people, I have to sayboy, you got a very big hand, Steve. Steve Scalise. A great hand.  And were all truly blessed to be Americans. Before going any further, I want to send our prayers to everyone affected by the train accident yesterday, and especially to the family of the person who was so tragically killed. Our thoughts are with the victims and their loved ones. And thank you. With us today on stage is our incredible leadership team. And they really haveif you lookyou just look at whats happened in the last short period of time. Without them, I could have never won the Presidency, I guess. I dont know, could I have won the Presidency without them?  Huh? Steve, yes, right?  I dont know. But theyve become very good friends, and were now in battle together and in friendship together. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.  Thank you, Mitch. Great guy.  That was a big win we had, Mitch. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn. John, thank you. Great job.  House Majority Whip Steve Scalise. Again, Steve, thank you.  House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. Kevin.  Chair John Thune and House Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers.  Did they forget your name, John? I dont know. Whats going on here?  John Cornyn, everybody knows. They didnt put his name up, but thats okay. Thats the first time thats ever happened. Hey, John, that will never happen again.  Working together, weve accomplished extraordinary things for the American people over the last year, and I really believe this is just the beginning. You know, Paul Ryan called me the other day, and I dont know if Im supposed to say this, but I will say that he said to me, he has never, ever seen the Republican Party so united, so much in like with each other. But, literally, the word united was the word he used. Its the most united hes ever seen the party, and I see it too. I have so many friends in this group, and there is a great coming together that I dont think either party has seen for many, many years. Soright?  Thats good.  I was hoping he wouldnt deny that.  But he didhe called me, and I thought it was very nice. So thank you, Paul, very much. Every day, were removing government burdens and empowering our citizens to follow their hearts and live out their dreams. The priorities of Republicans in Congress are the priorities of the American people. We believe in strong families, and we believe in strong borders.  We believe in the rule of law, and we support the men and women of law enforcement.  We believe every American has the right to grow up in a safe home and attend a good school and to have access to a really great job. And we know that, for Americans, nothingabsolutely nothingis out of reach because we dont know the meaning of the word quit. We dont quit. And the Republican Party certainly hasnt quitbecause if we did, we wouldnt be here today. Wed be sitting home saying, Boy, that was a tough year, instead of, That was one of the greatest years in the history of politics, in the history of our country for a partywhat weve done and what weve accomplished. I dont think its been done, and certainly not by much. We had a year that was almost, I would think, unlike any. It was a tremendous success, and I give everybody in this room the credit. And I give, certainly, these people behind me tremendous credit for what took place, especially in that last month. That was a month of tremendous pressure, and that was people that were able to act under pressure. My favorite type of person. They were able to act under tremendous pressure. So I just want to thank you all, because thats what it was all about. And, you know, it was interestingwhile we had a great year, we werent being given credit for itregulations at a level that nobody has ever done. In one year, we knocked out more regulations than anybody. Supreme Court justice, judges, all over. So many different records. So many successes. But when we got the great tax cut billand we call it the Tax Cut and Jobs Billwe got that, it was like putting it all in a box and wrapping it with a beautiful ribbon. We started getting credit not only for that, but for all of the other things that we did during the year. Its amazing the way that happened. I was surprised, actually. But we got a lot of credit from a lot of people. And all of a sudden, theyre saying, While we had a lot of accomplishmentand then they went on to do the thing. But the fact is( )you understand that. But we really did. We got a lot of credit. It all came together in that final month. And so I give everybody in this room, really, kudos. Were a nation of builders and dreamers and strivers and fighters. And together, were building a safe, strong, and very proud America, already, since the election. Weve created 2.4 million jobs. Thats unthinkable.  And that doesnt include all of the things that are happening. Youre going to see numbers that get even better. The stock market has added more than $8 trillion in new wealth. Unemployment claims are at a 45-year low, which is something. After years of wage stagnation, we are finally seeing rising wages. African American and Hispanic unemployment have both reached the lowest levels ever recorded. Thats something very, very special.  And when I made that statement the other night, there was zero movement from the Democrats. They sat there, stone cold, no smile, no  . You would have thought that, on that one, they would have, sort of, at least clapped a little bit. Which tells you, perhaps, theyd rather see us not do well than see our country do great. And thats not good. Thats not good. We have to change that.  And as I said, weve eliminated more regulations in our first year than any administration has ever eliminated. And that means four years, eight years, or, in one instance, sixteen years. In one year, weve knocked out more regulations. Its an amazing thing. And I happen to think that that is every bit as important toward our success as the tax cuts. I have many business friends and many people in business that came to me and they say thatincluding small businessesthey say the fact that they no longer have to go through years of turmoil in getting approved and getting approvals, and getting rule changes and getting all sorts of things, and getting old while theyre waiting to get themthe fact that all of that is gone is probably as important or even more important to the massive tax cuts weve gotten people. So thats something. Weve signed into law the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. And I have to say, included in there is the individual mandate. We repealed it. Thats a big one.  Thats so big. By itself, that would be a big achievement. And we, sort of, take it as, well, that was included. And ANWR, one of the great potential fields anywhere in the world.  And I never appreciated ANWR so much. A friend of mine called up, whos in that world and in that business, and said, Is it true that youre thinking about ANWR? I said, Yeah, I think were going to get it, but you know. He said, Are you kidding? Thats the biggest thing, by itself. He said, Ronald Reagan and every President has wanted to get ANWR approved. And after that, I said, Oh, make sure thats in the bill.  It was amazing how that had an impact. That had a very big impact on me, Paul. I really didnt care about it, and then when I heard that everybody wanted itfor 40 years, theyve been trying to get it approved, and I said, Make sure you dont lose ANWR.  But its great for the people of Alaska. And Senator Sullivan and Senator Murkowski are here someplace. Where are they? But they are very happy campers. Senator?  Good, Senator. Thank you. They worked very  Wheres Don Young? Hes such a quiet guy. Where Is Don?  Don Young, also. Don, thank you.  Sono, we were always going to get it. We never had a problem with it. But if you think about, that by itself is a big bill. The individual mandate by itself is a big, powerful bill. That was just added on to what we did with the massive tax cuts. I want to thank Senate Finance Chairmanand a very spectacular manOrrin Hatch.  Wheres Orrin? Orrin. Orrin isI love listening to him speak. He said once, I am the single greatest President in his lifetime. Now, hes a young man, so its not that much, but( ). And he actually once said Im the greatest President in the history of our country. And I said, Does that include Lincoln and Washington? He said, Yes. I said, I love this guy.  I love him. But he is, hes a special guy. And House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady for their incredible work.  Kevin? Where are you, Kevin? Thatswhat a job. Id call Kevin night after night. Kevin, what about this? What about that? You were always there. He was working. What did you average sleep for about four weeks? Aboutmaybe nothing? I think he had no average. But you did a great job. Nobody knows it better than you, Kevin. Thank you. Maybe well do a phase two, I dont know. Well do a phase two. Are you ready for that, Kevin? Huh? I think youre ready.  Well get them even lower. But we are proud of you. Here in West Virginia, as a result of our tax cuts, the typical family of four will save roughly $2,000 a year. To lower tax rates for hardworking Americans, we nearly doubled the standard deduction for everyone. Now, the first $24,000 earned by a married couple is completely tax-free. And when I came into this beautiful building just a little while ago, one of the people said, You know, I just got a check, and I have $221 more than I had last year at this time in my envelope.  And that onereally, thats what we were waiting. We were waiting for February, and then we got hit with these corporations giving tremendous bonuses to everybody that Nancy Pelosi called crumbs. That was a badthat could be like deplorable. Does that make sense? Deplorable and crumbsthose two words, they seem to have a resemblance. I hope it has the same meaning. But she called it crumbs, when people are getting $2,000 and $3,000 and $1,000. Thats not crumbs. Thats a lot of money. We also doubled the child tax credit, and thats so helpful to so many. Weve gone from one of the highest business tax rates anywhere in the world, to one of the most competitiveone of the lower onesso that our great workers and companies can compete and win against anyone. Weve now given them the tools to go out and win. And thats what theyre doing. And theyre also pouring back. A lot of you folks, you saw Davos the other day, theyre coming back. I believe I brought hundreds of billions of dollars with me back from Europe, back from Switzerland, when I went there the other day to make a speech. Theyre so excited about this country and whats happening here. And they would never, ever have come. In fact, if the opposing party had won the election, you would have had tremendous new rules and regulations put on everything, and other things would have happened. And instead of going up almost 50 percent, your stock market, in my opinion, would have gone down 50 percentI really believe thatbecause they were stifling it. They were getting prepared to stifle even worse than it was. The changes to our business tax alone are expected to raise average household income by $4,000. Roughly 3 million workers have already received tax cut bonuses and raises totaling thousands and thousands of dollars per workerand thats just over the past six weeks alone. Because of our tax cuts, Apple is investing $350 billion in the United States. Theyre bringing $240 billion back$240 billion. Theyre going to pay a tax of $38 billion, Mitch$38 billion. But theyre going to invest a total of $350 billion. And when I first heard the number, I said, You dont mean billion, you mean $350 million. Because Ive been saying to Tim Cook, Tim, we got to build plants here. You know, for $350 million, you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion, theyre going to build a lot of plants. And this would have never happened without us and the work youve done. And theyre hiring 20,000 workers, by the way.  And two days ago, ExxonMobil, in addition to many others, just announced that they are investing $50 billion in the United States. So the good news just keeps on rolling in, and its going to. And I want to thank Senator Tim Scott for opportunity zones. Our tax plan encourages this investment. Where is Tim? What a good guy Tim is.  Tim. See him over there someplace? Thank you, Tim. But were investing in distressed communities to create more jobs for those who have too often been left behind. And Tim worked hard on that. We want every American to know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck, and the satisfaction of a job really well done. And were reaching our hand all across the aisle in pursuit of common ground and commonsense reforms for the good of all Americans. All Americans. We can reform our prison system to help those who have served their time get a second chance at life. And Ive watched this, and Ive seen it, and Ive studied it. And people get out of prison, and they made a mistake. And not allsome are very bad, but many are very good. And they come home and they cant get a job. Its sad. They canttheresthey cant get a job. Now, the best thing weve done to fix that, Paul, is the fact that the economy is just booming. I mean, that fixes it better than any program we can do, anything we can do at all. But the economy is so strong now and so good, and so many companies are moving in that I really believe that problemits a big problemis going to solve itself. But were working on it. We can invest in workforce development, job training, and open new vocational schools, because we want every American to be able to reach their full God-given potential. Vocational schoolstoday you have community colleges and you have all of thewhen I was growing up, we had vocational schools. And when I was going to school, I remember I was in high school, and there were people in classone person in particular, he wasnt, like, the greatest student. Andhe just wasnt. And yet, I saw him one day, and he was able to fix a car engine, blindfolded. And everybody else was saying thats amazing how talented he is. He had a different kind of a talent. And we should have vocational schools. You learn mechanical, you learn bricklaying and carpentry, and all of these things. We dont have that very much anymore. And I think the word vocational is a much better word than, in many cases, a community college. A lot of people dont know what a community college means or represents. So were working very hard on vocational schools so that when all these companies move into this country, were going to have a workforce that knows exactly what theyre doing. In addition to that, when they move in, were giving them incentives to also train people themselves. Because, in many ways, thats the best way to do it. In Wisconsin, we have a great company moving in. They make all of the Apple iPhones, and theyre going to have a big program. Theyre going to have a tremendous program to teach people how to do this, because its a whole new skill. And it will be very successful. We can reduce the price of prescription drugs and ensure that terminally ill patients have a right to try.  So importantright to try. You know, those drugs, they sit in there for 12, 13, 14 years. And a person is terminally ill, they have two months left, and under the old system they dont want to give them even an experimental medicine because theyre afraid theyre going to be hurt. Well, theyre not going to be around for two months. So theyll sign a waiver, and were going to give them the hope of finding something. You have peopleand Ive known people like thisthey travel all over the world to try and find a cure. And we have great experimental drugs, but it will be years before they come on to the market. So its called Right to Try, and I hope you folks can approve it, and I hope you agree with it. But I think its so important. Its so important.  And Scott Gottlieb is heading it up. And itsand the other thing you get is you learn pretty quickly how effective it is; does it work. But you learn it really, very quickly. So, Right to Try. We can fix bad trade deals and negotiate new ones that are fair. And the most important word to me, on trade, is reciprocal. Because we have deals where companies will send in a motorbike, and we charge them nothing. But when we send a Harley-Davidson or a motorbike to those countries, they charge us 100 percent tax. Thats not fair. So theyll send their motorbikes, or something, into uszero. We send it to them100 percent. Thats not fair trade. Thats not fair. So I like the word reciprocal. If theyre going to do it to us, were going to do it to them. And whats going to happen is your numbers are going to either come down, or were going to make a lot of money. And either one is okay, as far as Im concerned. We can rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, and we will; streamline the horrible approval processroadways that take 12, 13, 14 years to get approved. We used to build them in three months, and now it takes years and years of approvals. Were going to bring that down, ideally, to one year. Two years is our goal, but one year is our real goal. And we can get it done under budget, and we want to get it done ahead of schedule. Because you dont have too many of them. Under budget and ahead of schedule. We can deliver for our police, our veterans, and our brave servicemembers. And finally, after decades of waiting, we can finally pass immigration reform that protects our country, defends our borders, and modernizes our immigration rules to serve the needs of American workers and of American families. So important. One of the strengths of the Republican Party is that were a big tent with many diverse views, but the one thing we can all agree onand thats that, in every decision, we make our highest priority to serve and to protect the American people. We want an immigration policy thats fair, equitable, but thats going to protect our people. We want people coming into our country based on merit and based on the fact that they are going to love our country, and they respect our people and our country. We dont want visa lottery. Pick a lottery ticket. Pick a lottery. We dont want that. So we want it based on merit.  We have a chance now to pass into law the immigration reforms that the American people have been demanding for decades and that many of you have been working on for your entire careers. We have a great opportunity as a Republican Party. As the Republican Party, we have a great opportunity. Were getting very little help from the Democrats, but I hope after I leave this room, were going to get a call from these people saying, Lets go. You know, they talk a good game. We have to get help from the other side, or we have to elect many more Republicans. Thats another way of doing it.  Really, thats another way of doing it. And based on the numbers we just saw, we have a real chance of doing that. You know, 18 is going to be very interesting. But weve got to do one or the other. Either theyre going to have to come on boardbecause they talk a good game with DACA, but they dont produce. And so either they come on board, or were just going to have to really work and were going to have to get more people so we can get the kind of numbers that we need to pass, in a much easier fashion, legislation. And to get it done, well all have to make some compromises along the wayto get it done this way. Now, to get it done the other way, if we win more, we dont have to compromise so much. Okay? With the tax bill, we got what we wanted because we had, essentially, a unanimous vote. But we have to go, and we have to get it done and get it done properly, and were going to have to compromiseunless we elect more Republicans, in which case, we can have it just the way everybody in this room wants it. We have to be willing to give a little in order for our country to gain a whole lot. If were united, if we work together for the good of the nation, and we can fulfill our sacred duty to the country and to our incredible voters, we have really fulfilled a solemn promise. As you know, I have put forward an immigration framework based on many months of meeting and working with Tom Cotton, and working with John Cornyn, who was in the office the other day, and David Perdueincredible peopleand Bob Goodlatte, whos out here someplace. Really incredible people. And its a strong bill, but its a very fair bill. And it protects our border. We have to protect our borders.  It includes reforms that are overwhelmingly popular with the voters, including Democrats. The Democrats want to havethe real Democrats, they want to have their borders protected. But it includes Democrats, independents, Republicans. Americans want an immigration system that works for everybody. And they want safety. And, by the way, they also want a strong military. And we have to be very powerful on our military. You know, our military has been depleted over the last long period of time, even beyond Obama. Its been depleted. Weve got to build up. This should not be a party thing; this should be common sense. Without our military, we might not be here talking. We have to have a strong military. And I think were very much on our way. From the one standpoint, were going for funding, which we need, and I think well get it. But we have a lot of fighting on that from the other side, and we cant even think about it. We need a strong and powerful military. And were going to have far more powerful than we were ever before.  Nearly 7 in 10 Americans support an immigration reform package that includes a permanent solution on DACA. And Ive been hearing about DACA for so many years. Some people call it DREAMers. Its not DREAMers. Dont fall into that trap. Its just much different than DREAMers. And I said the other night, you know, we have dreamers too. We have dreamers in this country, too. You cant forget our dreamers. I have a lot of dreamers here.  But DACAwe want to take care of DACA, and I hope we will. We need the support of the Democrats in order to do it, and they might not want to do it. They talk like they do, but I dont think they do. But were going to find out very soon. We want something that is very, very tough and strong, in terms of the border. We need to end chain migration, and we need to cancel the terrible visa lottery.  And those are the four pillars that I talked about the other night. We call them the White House frameworka plan that will finally bring our immigration system into the 21st Century. The Republican position on immigration is the center, mainstream view of the American people, with some extra strength at the border and security at the border added in. What were asking for and what the American people are pleading for is sanity and common sense in our immigration system. We want immigration rules that protect our communities, defend our security, and admit people who will love our country and contribute to our society. I know that the Senate is planning to bring an immigration bill on the floor, to the floor, in coming weeks. And Im asking that the framework we submittedwith great flexibility, great flexibility, working with both partiesthat something very positive will come out of it for our country, for everybodyfor our country. And I think that can happen. If the Democrats choose to filibuster a framework that includes a generous path to citizenship or something that is not fair, we are not going to approve it. Were just not going to approve it. So well either have something thats fair and equitable and good and secure, or were going to have nothing at all. And this has been going on for many years. It doesnt make sense, however, to have nothing at all, because this is something that people want. So we will be demonstrating that we are very, very serious. One of the reasons I gave a number that was, I thought, a very generous number was because I wanted to see whether or not they were interested in approving that. Because if they dont approve something within that sphere, that means, very simply, that theyre not looking to approve it at all. They want to use it for an election issue, but its now an election issue that will go to our benefit, not their benefit.  But make no mistake: I will not rest until we have delivered for the citizens of our great country so many different thingsimmigration, the strong military. Weve done an awfully good job of protecting our Second Amendment. That was in question during the campaign, you remember, and we have done a very, very good job.  For the last 12 months, I have kept one promise after another, and were just getting started. So often Ill seeand I must say, six, seven months ago, they were saying, he didnt fulfill his promise on this or that. I said, Ive only been here for four months. You know, other people were there for eight years and they would finally get something passed. I was there four monthsyou know this, Pauland they were saying, He didnt fulfill a promise. But now weve fulfilled far more promises than we promised.  And theyre having a hard time with that. We have seriously fulfilled promises. I call it promises plus.  And one of the things were doing thats so importantand Mitch has worked so hard on, and Don, and everybodyis the justices, the judges all over the country. Were filling up the courts with really talented people who understand and read the Constitution for what it says.  So its really not talked about that much, but it is a tremendous impact. Its having already a tremendous impact. And we have incredible people lined upjust lined upthat are getting ready to go into the courts. And, in many ways, Mitch, I think its going to be one of the most important things, if not the most important thing, that were doing. Defense is always the most. Got to be the most, John, right? But what were doing with the courts, I think, is going to go down as one of the greatest achievements, so I want to thank you for that. Thank you.  And not only are we protecting America at home, were protecting our interests abroad. Its time to finally end the dangerous defense sequester. It would be wonderful if we could go back to a budget( )in order to fully fund our military, and do it properly and order properly, and have it over a period of time, and do it the right way. So at some point, I hope, were going to be able to do that and it should work. And in order to defeat terrorists, were also asking Congress to ensure that we continue to have all necessary power and everything we need to defeat and detain the terrorists. We cant treat terrorists like common criminals; they are really unlawful enemy combatants.  When you see what they do and the way they do it, and the level of ferocity, we cant treat them the way we do the ordinary criminal. And as you saw on Tuesday, Ive signed an order keeping open our very secure detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay.  Its another promise kept. And there is one more very important promise were keeping: No longer are we making apologies for America. We dont apologize anymore.  Were proud of our history, were confident in our values, and were grateful to our heroes, and we are determined to create a brighter future for all of our people. We are restoring the bonds of love and loyalty that unite us all, as friends, as neighbors, as citizens, as Americans. Because when Americans are united, nothingnothing at allnothing can stop us. We win.  As I said the other night, we are a nation that built the Empire State Building in one year. Actually, to be exact, it waswe built it in less than a year. Would you believe it? Working 24 hours around the clock. We built the Hoover Dam in record time. We built the Golden Gate Bridge. We linked our nation together with railroads and highways. We dug out the Panama Canal. Were the nation that won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and put satellites into space and planted our great American flag on the face of the moon. Weve healed the sick, cured disease, and cared for the poor like no other nation. Weve lifted millions into prosperity, and delivered millions into freedom. This is our legacy. This is our birthright. And this is the foundation on which we build our very glorious future. Because together, we are, indeed, making America great again. Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you very much.  Thank you."
"My fellow Americans, today I speak to a nation in grief. Yesterday, a school filled with innocent children and caring teachers became the scene of terrible violence, hatred, and evil. Around 2:30 yesterday afternoon, police responded to reports of gunfire at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Floridaa great and safe community. There, a shooter, who is now in custody, opened fire on defenseless students and teachers. He murdered 17 people and badly wounded at least 14 others. Our entire nation, with one heavy heart, is praying for the victims and their families. To every parent, teacher, and child who is hurting so badly, we are here for youwhatever you need, whatever we can do, to ease your pain. We are all joined together as one American family, and your suffering is our burden also. No child, no teacher, should ever be in danger in an American school. No parent should ever have to fear for their sons and daughters when they kiss them goodbye in the morning. Each person who was stolen from us yesterday had a full life ahead of thema life filled with wondrous beauty and unlimited potential and promise. Each one had dreams to pursue, love to give, and talents to share with the world. And each one had a family to whom they meant everything in the world. Today, we mourn for all of those who lost their lives. We comfort the grieving and the wounded. And we hurt for the entire community of Parkland, Florida that is now in shock, in pain, and searching for answers. To law enforcement, first responders, and teachers who responded so bravely in the face of danger: We thank you for your courage. Soon after the shooting, I spoke with Governor Scott to convey our deepest sympathies to the people of Florida and our determination to assist in any way that we can. I also spoke with Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi and Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel. Im making plans to visit Parkland to meet with families and local officials, and to continue coordinating the federal response. In these moments of heartache and darkness, we hold on to Gods word in scripture: I have heard your prayer and seen your tears. I will heal you. We trust in that promise, and we hold fast to our fellow Americans in their time of sorrow. I want to speak now directly to Americas children, especially those who feel lost, alone, confused or even scared: I want you to know that you are never alone and you never will be. You have people who care about you, who love you, and who will do anything at all to protect you. If you need help, turn to a teacher, a family member, a local police officer, or a faith leader. Answer hate with love; answer cruelty with kindness. We must also work together to create a culture in our country that embraces the dignity of life, that creates deep and meaningful human connections, and that turns classmates and colleagues into friends and neighbors. Our administration is working closely with local authorities to investigate the shooting and learn everything we can. We are committed to working with state and local leaders to help secure our schools, and tackle the difficult issue of mental health. Later this month, I will be meeting with the nations governors and attorney generals, where making our schools and our children safer will be our top priority. It is not enough to simply take actions that make us feel like we are making a difference. We must actually make that difference. In times of tragedy, the bonds that sustain us are those of family, faith, community, and country. These bonds are stronger than the forces of hatred and evil, and these bonds grow even stronger in the hours of our greatest need. And so always, but especially today, let us hold our loved ones close, let us pray for healing and for peace, and let us come together as one nation to wipe away the tears and strive for a much better tomorrow. Thank you. And God Bless you all. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much. Thank you everybody.  Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Matt, for that great introduction. And thank you for this big crowd. This is incredible. Really incredible.  Weve all come a long way together. Weve come a long way together. Im thrilled to be back at CPAC, with so many of my wonderful friends and amazing supporters, and proud conservatives.  Remember when I first started running? Because I wasnt a politician, fortunately. But do you remember I started running and people would say, Are you sure hes a conservative? I think now weve proved that Im a conservative, right?  For more than four decades, this event has served as a forum for our nations top leaders, activists, writers, thinkers. Year after year, leaders have stood on this stage to discuss what we can do together to protect our heritage, to promote our culture, and to defend our freedom. CPAC has always been about big ideas and its also been about putting those ideas into action. And CPAC really has put a lot of ideas into action. Well talk about some of them this morning. For the last year, with your help, we have put more great conservative ideas into use than perhaps ever before in American history.  Right? By the way, what a nice picture that is. Look at that. Id love to watch that guy speak.  Oh, boy. Thats aI try like hell to hide that bald spot, folks. I work hard at it.  It doesnt look bad. Hey, were hanging in. Were hanging in. Were hanging in there, right? Together, were hanging in. Weve confirmed a record numberso importantof circuit court judges, and we are going to be putting in a lot more.  And they will interpret the law as written. And weve confirmed an incredible new Supreme Court justice, a great man, Neil Gorsuch.  Right? Weve passed massivebiggest in historytax cuts and reforms.  You know, I dont use the word reform. There was a lot of reform, too. Very positive reform. I dont use it. And when we were first doing it, I told everybodyeverybody gatheredI said, Just talk about tax cuts. People dont know what reform means. They think reform might mean its going up. And I said, Do tax cuts.  Thank you. How did he get in here, Matt? Boy. Okay. Just for the media, the fake news back there, they took very good care of him. They were very gentle.  He was very obnoxious. It was only one person. So we have thousands of people here.  So listentomorrow, the headline will be, Protestors disturbed the Trumpone person, folks. Doesnt deserve a mention. Doesnt deserve a headline. The headline tomorrow: Disrupters of CPAC. One person. And he was very nicewe looked at him, and he immediately left. Okay. ( ) No, Ive had it too often. Youll have one person, and you can hardly even hear him. In fact, the biggest, really, disturbance are you people. You know why? Hell say something; nobody hears him. Because its alland then the crowd will start screaming at him. And then all of a sudden we stop forand thats okay. You have to show your spirit, right? You have to show your spirit. Its true.  So we passed the biggest tax cuts in the history of our country. And it was called tax cut and reform. And I said to our people, dont use the word reform. Because we were going to call it the Tax Reform Act. I said, No wonder for 45 years nothing has been passed. Because people want tax cuts, and they dont know what reform means. Reform can mean youre going to pay more tax. So I convinced politicians who have done this all their livesand they do a great job, in many casesbut this was onethey were going, the Tax Reform Act of whatever year we want to put. Okay? So they have the Tax Reform Act, and that was it. And now it was called the Tax ActTax Cut Act and Jobs. We had to add jobs into it because were picking up a tremendous number of jobs2.7 million jobs since the election. 2.7.  So now people hear tax cuts, and it has been popular. Remember, it started off a little slow. Then it got passed, and we had some great help. I will say, we had some great help in the Senate, in the House. We have guys here todaywe have a lot of congressmen, we have a lot of senators. We had a lot of help. And we got it passed. Justit was not easy. We didnt have one Democrat vote, and I think thats going to cost them in the midterms. I know that whoever wins the presidency has a disadvantage, for whatever reason, in the midterms. You know what happens? Im trying to figure it out. Because historically, if you win the presidency, you dont do well two years later. And you know what? We cant let that happen.  And I know what happens. I finally figured it out. Nobody has been able to explain it. It just happens, statistically, almost all of the time for many years. What happens is, you fight so hard to win the presidency. You fight, fight, fight. And now only two yearsthats a very short period. And by the time you start campaigning, its a year. And now you got to go and fight again. But you just won. So nobody has that same drive that they had. So you end up not doing that well because the other side is goingtheyre crazed. And, by the way, theyre crazed anyway, these people. They are really crazed. ( ) Right? Sobecause I kept trying to say, Why is this? But its just there. So the great enthusiasmyou know, youre sitting back, youre watching television. Maybe I dont have to vote today; we just won the presidency. And then we get clobbered, and we cant let that happen. We get clobbered in 18, and we cant let that happenonly because we are so happy, we passed so many things. Honestly, and Ill sayIll use the word my administration as opposed to memy administration, I think, has had the most successful first year in the history of the presidency. I really believe that. I really believe it. I really believe it.  So, I mean, judges, regulations, everything. And the beautiful thing about the tax cuts is nobody thought we could do it. Because again, we had to get 100 percent of our vote. And nobody thought we could do it. And, franklyI mean, to me we got it and its turned out to be one of the most popular things. And, by the way, for the Republicans in this room, of which I assumewould you say, is it 99 percent, Matt, or 100 percent? Huh? I would hope its close toyou know what, hey, we probably have some Democrats that want to come over. We have a great governor from West Virginia that left the Democratic PartyBig Jimand he came over to the Republican Party.  So people are sitting there, and theyre saying, Oh, we just had that great victory. Eh, lets not vote. Lets go to a movie. Were the Republican Party, were going to do great. And then they end up losing. So you got to keep up the enthusiasm. Now what happens, by the way, they lose. And then you have the presidential election coming up again, and you clobber them because everybody gets off their ass and they get out and they work. Right? And they work. And they work and work and work. And you end up winning the Presidency again. And we should do thathopefully were going to do that very easily. But neverwe have to worryright now, we have a big race coming up in 18. You have to get out. You have to just get that enthusiasm. Keep it going.  See, the word, really, is complacent. People get complacent. Its a natural instinct. You just won, and now youre happy and youre complacent. Dont be complacent. Okay? Dont be complacent. Because if they get in, they will repeal your tax cuts, they will put judges in that you wouldnt believe, theyll take away your Second Amendment, which we will never allow to happen.  Theyll take away your Second Amendment. ( ).  Remember that. They will take awaythank you. They will take away those massive tax cuts and they will take away your Second Amendment. By the way, if you only had a choice of one, what would you rather have? The Second Amendment or the tax cuts? Go ahead, Second Amendment, tax cuts. Second Amendment.  Im going to leave it at the Second Amendment. I dont want to get into that battle, all right? Were going to say you wantMatt, were going to say you want the Second Amendment the most. But were going to get them all. And remember this( )remember this: Weve gottenyou know, somebody got on television recently and they said, actually, this is the first time I can rememberTrump made campaign promises. He may be the only person that actually fulfilled more promises than he made. I think thats true.  I fulfilled more promises. But we have a very crooked media. We had a crooked candidate, too, by the way. But we have a very, very crooked media.  I will say this, folks: Everything thats turning out, now its amazing thats come full circle. Boy, have they committed a lot of atrocities when you look.  Right? When you look. Have they done things that are wrong. But remember this: Not only did we get the tax cuts, which everybody said we wouldnt getand, by the way, repealed, in that tax cut, the individual mandate, which is a tremendous thing.  This is where youre forced to pay in order not to have healthcare. Okay? Is that great? You pay for the privilege of not having healthcare. So youre subsidizing lots of other people. Thats gone. I know people came up to me with tears in their eyes; theyre saying, Im forced to pay not to have healthcare. Very unfair. And, by the way, were having tremendous plans coming out nowhealthcare plansat a fraction of the cost that are much better than Obamacare.  And except for one Senator, who came into a room at 3 oclock in the morning and went like thatwe would have had healthcare, too.  We would have had healthcare, too. Think of that. But I think we may be better off the way were doing it. Its piece by piece by piece. Obamacare is just being wiped out. The individual mandate, essentially, wipes it out.  So I think we may be better off. And people are getting great healthcare plans and were not finished yet. But, remember, one person walked into a room when he was supposed to go this way, and he said he was going this way, and he walked in, and he went this way, and everyone said, What happened? What was that all about? Boy, oh, boy. Who was that? I dont know. I dont know. I dont know. I dont want to be controversial, so I wont use his name. Okay?  What a mess. But its all happening anyway. Its all happening anyway. And weve, at the same time, eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations, and people are going back to work.  Right? People are going back to work. Soand you know, the fake news alwaysif I say something thats like, a little off, next day headline, He misrepresentsI have to be careful. But in the history of Presidents, no Presidentand Im saying no President. Now, maybe theyll find I was off by two but were here one year.  No Presidentwell, I read it in lots of good papers, actually.  But theyll change the story when I say it. No President has ever cut so many regulations in their entire term, okay( )as weve cut in less than a year.  And its my opinion that the regulations had as big an impact as these massive tax cuts that weve given. So I really believe it.  Weve ended the war on American energy. We were in war. And weve ended the war on beautiful, clean coal.  One of our great natural resources. And very important for our defensecoalvery important for our defense. Because we have it. We dont have to send it through pipes. We dont have to get it from foreign countries. We have more than anybody. And they wanted to end it. And our miners have been mistreated and theyre not being mistreated anymore. Were doing tremendous business.  I was in Vietnam, and the Prime Minister and the President of Vietnam were there. And we have a massive deficit with them, like we do with everybody else because these Presidents have just let it go to hell. We have the worst trade deals youve ever seen. So were changing it. So I said, we have too big of a deficit with Vietnam; Im not happy. He said, Well, but were going to I said, Buy coal. Buy coal. They use a lot of coal. Buy coal. And he said, You know, we have bought coal from West Virginia and other places, and its the finest coal we have ever used. Its interesting. And West Virginia now is doing great. You look at whats happening in West Virginia. You look at whats happening in Pennsylvania. You look at whats happening in Ohio.  And you look at whats happening in Wyoming. You look at whats happening all over. Its like aits like a different world. And remember this: Virtually, as soon as I got into office, we approved the Keystone XL pipeline and the Dakota Access pipeline, which would never have been approved.  And we announced our withdrawal from the totally disastrous, job-killing, wealth-knocking-outyou know, it knocked out our wealth, or it would have. They basically wanted to take our wealth away. They didnt want us to use our wealth power. We knocked out the Paris Climate Accord. Would have been a disaster.  Would have been a disaster for our country.  You know, basically, it said, you have a lot of oil and gas that we foundyou know, technology has been amazingand we found things that we never knew. But we have massivejust about the top in the worldwe have massive energy reserves. We have coal. We have so much. And basically, they were saying, dont use it, you cant use it. So what it does is it makes us uncompetitive with other countries. Its not going to happen. I told them, its not going to happen. And, you know, China, their agreement didnt kick in until 2030. Right? Our agreement kicks in immediately. Russia, theyre allowed to go back into the 1990s, which was not a clean environmental time. Other countries, big countriesIndia and otherswe had to pay, because they considered them a growing country. They were a growing country. I said, What are we? Are we allowed to grow too? Okay?  Now, are we allowed to grow?  They called India a developing nation. They called China a developing nation. But the United States, were developedwe can pay. So, folks, if you dont mindIll tell you whatits amazing how many people understood the Paris Accord, because it sounds so good. Its like some of the environmental regulations that I cutthey have the most beautiful titles. And sometimes Id say, Look, Im just going to close my eyes and sign this because, you know what, Im going to get killed on this one. And I get so much thanks. The country knows what Im doing. We couldnt build. We couldnt farm. If you had a puddle on your land, they called it a lake for the purposes of environmentals.  I mean, its crazy. Its crazy. And Id sign certain bills and Id have farmers behind me and Id have house builders, home builders behind me. And these are tough people, strong people. They fought hard. Theyve worked all their lives, hard. And theyd behalf of them would be crying because we gave them their property back. We gave them the right to earn a living. They couldnt do it. They couldnt do what they had to do. We gave them their property back. We gave them their dignity back.  By the way, you dont mind if I go off script a little bit because, you know, its sort of boring. Its a little boring.  Got this beautiful speech, everything is wonderful but a little boring. We have to, you know  But we gave them their dignity back. And thats why our country is doing record business. Were doing record business. Were doing businessand you have to look at the fundamentals. Companies are pouring back into this country. Theyre pouring back. Not like  I mean, when did you hear about car companies coming back into Michigan and coming to Ohio and expanding?  When did you hear  you never heard that. You hear theyre leaving. Ive been talking about it for 20 years. I was a private sector guy. But for whatever reason, I always had  these guys always covered me much more than anybody else. I always got a lot of these characters. They used to treat me so good too, until I ran for office. I used to get the greatest publicity. A friend of mine said, You know, you used to be the king of getting great publicity. What happened? I said, Well, I have some views that theyre opposed to for a lot of bad reasons.  A lot of really bad reasons. But when you look at whats happening to our country, its incredible. And the fundamentals are so strong. The stock market  I just see with all of the ups and downs  since Election Day, is up 37 percent from Election  37 percent.  Now, it did a little bit of a correction. In fact, I started to say  you know, I was in it for like 13, 14 months from election. I say, Is this sucker ever going down a little bit? This is a little embarrassing. It was up 100, up 200, up 1,000, up 150, up 90, up 63. I said, Good, thats better.  You know, hey, weve got seven years to go, folks. You know, we got a long time to go.  So thank you, everybody. Youve been amazing. Youve been amazing. You know what Matt didnt say  when I was here in 2011, I made a speech, and I was received with such warmth. And they give  they used to give  I dont know if Matt does that because he might not want to be controversial, but they used to give the best speech of CPAC. Do they do that still, Matt? Because you better pick me or Im not coming back again.  But  and I got these  everybody, they loved that speech. And that was, I think, Matt  I would say, that might have been the first real political speech that I made. It was a love fest  2011, I believe the time was  and a lot of people remembered, and they said, We want Trump. We want Trump. And after a few years, they go by, and I say, Here we are. Lets see what we can do. And then everybody said, He cannot get elected. He cannot do it. You need 270 votes. You need Electoral College  which, by the way, is much tougher than the popular vote. The popular vote, actually, would be so much easier. You go three or four states, and you just go and you just do great job. Hillary forgets that. You know, she went to these states. I said, Whats she doing? Why does she keep going back to California?  Crazy. Next time, theyre going to remember Iowa. Theyre going to remember Ohio.  Remember? They spent a lot of time in Pennsylvania to no avail.  They spent a lot of money. They spent a lot of money in North Carolina, the great state of North Carolina.  We did very well there. We have a great person in the room, Mark Meadows, from North Carolina.  Hes around here. Wheres Mark? Wheres Mark? And Deb. And we have Jim Jordan. Warriors. Warriors all.  We have a lot of great  we have a lot of great people here. But, you know, we just  we hit a chord. And if you remember, 2011, probably that was the beginning of what weve done. And hopefully, at the end of a period of time, people are going to say thank you, because it is not easy. Were fighting a lot of forces. Theyre forces that are doing the wrong thing. Theyre just doing the wrong thing. I dont want to talk about what they have in mind. But they do the wrong thing. But were doing whats good for our country for the long-term viability and survival. Like, for instance, $700 billion got approved for our military. Our military was going to hell.  We declined to certify the terrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. That was a horrible deal.  Whoever heard you give $150 billion to a nation that has no respect for you whatsoever? Theyre saying Death to America while theyre signing the agreement. If somebody said Death to America while Im signing an agreement, and Im President, I immediately say, Whats going on here, folks? Im not signing.  Whats going on? They just kept going. Kerry  Kerry may be the worst negotiator Ive ever seen.  How about this guy  how about  and Obama, of course  hes the one. But how about $1.8 billion in cash? Did you ever see what, like, a million dollars in hundred-dollar bills? A lot of people do it as a promotion. Its a lot. Its big. Its like big.  Now, take that, go to $1.8 billion in cash. $1.8 billion. For what? For what? Why did we do this? Why did we do it? Anyway, we didnt certify, and lots of interesting things are happening with that whole mess. But we have to treat  people that treat us well, we treat them well. People that treat us badly, we treat them much worse than they can ever imagine. Thats the way it has to be.  Thats the way it has to be. We officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.  You know, every President campaigned on, Were going to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Everybody  for many Presidents  youve been reading it. And then they never pulled it off. And I now know why. Because I put the word out that I may do it. Right? I said, Id do it in my campaign, so that usually means  unless I find something  Im going to do it. I was hit by more countries and more pressure and more people calling, begging me, Dont do it. Dont do it. Dont do it. I said, We have to do it. Its the right thing to do. Its the right thing to do. We have to do it.  And I did it. But every other President really lied, because they campaigned on it. That was always a big part of the campaign. And then they got into office; they never did it. So I understand why they didnt do it. Because there was tremendous  the campaign against it was so incredible. But you know what? The campaign for it was also incredible, and we did the right thing.  So weve kept our promise, as I said, to rebuild our military, eliminating the defense sequester, which is a disaster. And I dont know if you saw the number, $700 billion. You know, ultimately, that comes before everything else. We can talk about lots of things. But if we dont have a strong military, you might not be allowed into this room someday. Okay? You may not have your houses, your homes, your beautiful communities. We better take care of our military. These are the greatest people, and were going to take care of our veterans.  Were going to take care of the vets. Weve been doing a good job on the vets. And after years of rebuilding other nations  we rebuild other nations  we rebuild other nations that have a lot of money, and we dont ever say, Hey, you got to help. Were finally rebuilding our nation. Were rebuilding our nation.  And were restoring our confidence and our pride. All of us here today are united by the same timeless values. We defend our Constitution, and we believe in the wisdom of our Founders. Our Constitution is great.  We support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.  True. We know that a strong nation must have strong borders. We celebrate our history and our heroes, and we believe young Americans should be taught to love their country and to respect its traditions. Dont worry, youre getting the wall. Dont worry, okay? I heard some  ( )  were getting the wall.  I had a couple of these characters in the back say, Oh, he really doesnt want the wall. He just used that for campaigning. I said, are you  can you believe it?  You know, I say, every time I hear that, the wall gets 10 feet higher. You know that, right?  Every time. Every single time. Okay? No, were going to have the wall or theyre not going to have what they want. You know, we have a problem: We need more Republicans. We have a group of people that vote against us in a bloc. Theyre good at two things: resisting, obstruction. Resisting, obstruction. And they stick together. They do. They always vote in a bloc. You know, its very rare that you get a couple of them to come your way. Even on the tax cuts. I mean, were going to be fighting these people in the 18 election. Were going to be fighting people that voted against the tax cuts, because the tax cuts are phenomenal and popular, and helping people and helping our country. You saw Apple just brought $350 billion in; Exxon brought $50 billion in.  So were going to be fighting. The fact is, we need more Republicans to vote.  We want to get our agenda. Because, now, what we have to do is in order to get a vote to fix our military, we have to give them $100 billion in stuff that nobody in this room, including me, wants, in many cases. Its terrible. We need more Republicans. Thats why you have to get out and you have to fight for 18. You have to do it.  We salute our great American flag, we put our hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance.  And we all proudly stand for the national anthem.   Above all else, we know that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are at the center of American life. We know that.  Because in America, we dont worship government, we worship God.  Our nations motto is, In God We Trust.  And this week, our nation lost an incredible leader who devoted his life to helping us understand what those words really mean. Leader. He was a leader. He was a great man. We will never forget the historic crowds, that voice, the energy, and the profound faith of a preacher named Billy Graham.  Great man and great family. Franklin Graham. Great family. And they were for us  Ill tell you, they were for us. Right from the beginning they were for us. As a young man, Billy decided to devote his life to God. That choice not only changed his life, it changed our country. And indeed, it even changed the world. Reverend Grahams belief in the power of Gods word gave hope to millions and millions who listened to him with his very beautiful, but very simple message: God loves you.  And a very special tribute  because its almost never done  on Wednesday, we will celebrate Billy Grahams life as he lies in honor in the Rotunda of our Capitol.  Very rarely. One day  Wednesday until Thursday, about 11 oclock on Wednesday. I bet those lines are going to be long and beautiful, because he deserves it. Not everybody deserves it. But very few people  you look back, Ronald Reagan was so honored. Very few people are so honored. Thats a big thing. And he really, almost more than anybody you can think of, he deserves to be in the Rotunda. So thats going to be very special. Wednesday at 11 oclock.  And Paul, and Mitch, and the whole group, they worked very hard to make it all happen. So we want to thank them too. Everywhere you go, all over the country, in cities small and large, Americans of all faiths reach out to our Creator for strength, for inspiration, and for healing. Great time for healing. In times of grief and hardship, we turn to prayer for solace and for comfort. In recent days, our entire nation has been filled with terrible pain and sorrow over the evil massacre in a great community  Parkland, Florida. This senseless act of mass murder has shocked our nation and broken our hearts. This week, I had the honor of meeting with students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, with families who have lost their children in prior shootings  great families, great people  and with members of the local community right here in Washington, D.C. Our whole nation was moved by their strength and by their courage. We listened to their heart-wrenching stories, asked them for ideas, and pledged to them  and I can speak for all of the senators and congressmen and congresswomen, all of the people in this room that are involved in this decision  that we will act. We will do something. We will act. With us on Wednesday was one of the families whose daughter didnt come home last week  a beautiful young woman named Meadow Pollack. Incredible family. I had them in the Oval Office. Incredible people. Youve probably seen her picture. She had a beautiful, beautiful smile, and a beautiful life. So full of promise. We wish there was something  anything  we could do to bring Meadow and all of the others back. There are not enough tears in the world to express our sadness and anguish for her family, and for every family that has lost a precious loved one. No family should ever save  and ever have to go in and suffer the way these families have suffered. Theyve suffered beyond anything that Ive ever witnessed. A father drops his daughter off at school, kisses her goodbye, waves to her  shes walking up the path  and never sees her alive again. Gets a call. Cant believe it. Thinks its a nightmare. Wants to wake up from the nightmare. So we want to hear ideas from Americans of all backgrounds and beliefs about how we can improve security at our schools, tackle the issue of mental health. Because this was a sick person  very sick  and we had a lot of warning about him being sick. This wasnt a surprise. To the people that knew him, this wasnt even a little bit; in fact, some said, were surprised it took so long. So what are we doing? What are we doing? We want to ensure that when there are warning signs, we can act and act very quickly. Why do we protect our airports, and our banks, our government buildings, but not our schools?  Its time to make our schools a much harder target for attackers. We dont want them in our schools.  We dont want them. When we declare our schools to be gun-free zones, it just puts our students in far more danger.  Far more danger. Well-trained, gun-adept teachers and coaches and people that work in those buildings; people that were in the Marines for 20 years and retired; people in the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Coast Guard; people that are adept  adept with weaponry and with guns  they teach. I mean, I dont want to have 100 guards standing with rifles all over the school. You do a concealed carry permit.  And this would be a major deterrent because these people are inherently cowards. If they thought  like, if this guy thought that other people would be shooting bullets back at him, he wouldnt have gone to that school. He wouldnt have gone there. Its a gun-free zone. It says, this is a gun-free zone; please check your guns way far away. And what happens is they feel safe. Theres nobody going to come at them. This way, you may have  and remember, if you use this school as an example  this is a very big school with tremendous floor area and a lot of acreage. Its a big, big school. Good school. A big, big school. Youd have to have 150 real guards. Look, you had one guard. He didnt turn out to be too good, I will tell you that. He turned out to be not good. He was not a credit to law enforcement, that I can tell you. That I can tell you.  But as Ive been talking about this idea  and I feel its a great idea, but some people that are good people are opposed to it; they dont like the idea of teachers doing it. But Im not talking about teachers. You know, CNN went on, they said, Donald Trump wants all teachers. Okay? Fake news, folks. Fake news. Fake news. I dont want a person thats never handled a gun that wouldnt know what a gun looks like to be armed. But out of your teaching population  out of your teaching population, you have 10 percent, 20 percent of very gun-adept people. Military people, law enforcement people, they teach. They teach.  And something I thought of this morning. You know what else? And I thought of it since I found and watched Peterson, the deputy who didnt go into the school because he didnt want to go into the school. Okay? He was tested under fire, and that wasnt a good result. But you know what I thought of as soon as I saw that? These teachers  and Ive seen them at a lot of schools where they had problems  these teachers love their students. And the students love their teachers, in many cases. These teachers love their students. And these teachers are talented with weaponry and with guns. And they feel safe. And Id rather have somebody that loves their students and wants to protect their students than somebody standing outside that doesnt know anybody and doesnt know the students, and, frankly, for whatever reason, decided not to go in even though he heard lots of shots being fired inside. The teachers and the coaches and other people in the building  the dean, the assistant dean, the principal  they can  they love their people. They want to protect these kids. And I think were better with that. And this may be 10 percent or 20 percent of the population of teachers, et cetera. Its not all of them. But you would have a lot, and you would tell people that theyre inside. And the beauty is, its concealed. Nobody would ever see it unless they needed it. Its concealed. So this crazy man who walked in wouldnt even know who it is that has it. Thats good. Thats not bad; thats good. And a teacher would have shot the hell out of him before he knew what happened.  They love their students. They love those students, folks. Remember that. They love their students. And Im telling you that would work. Because we need offensive capability. We cant just say, oh, its a gun-free school. Were going to do it a little bit better. Because then you say, What happens outside? The students now leave school, and you got a thousand students  you got 3,500 at the school were talking about  but you have a thousand students standing outside. The teachers are out there also. If a madman comes along, we have the same problem, but its outside of the school. Or they drive cars. There are a lot of things that can happen. I want to stop it. And I know its a little controversial to say  but I have to say, since I started this two days ago, a lot of people that were totally opposed to it are now agreeing. They love their students. They dont want their students to be killed or to be hurt.  So we have to do something that works. And one of the big measures that we will do, and everybody in this room I think has to agree  and theres nobody that loves the Second Amendment more than I do. And theres nobody that respects the NRA  theyre friends of mine. They backed us all. Theyre great people. Theyre patriots.  But theyre great people. But we really do have to strengthen up, really strengthen up background checks. We have to do that.  And we have to do  for the mentally ill, we have to do very, very  we dont want to people that are mentally ill to be having any form of weaponry. We have to be very strong on that.  So were going to do that. And I really believe that Congress is going to get it through this time. And they have a different leader. They have somebody that wants to get it through; not somebody thats just all talk, no action, like so many of these folks. This is somebody that wants to get it through. But I also want to protect  we need a hardened site. It has to be hardened. It cant be soft. Because theyll sneak in through a window, theyll sneak in some way. And, again, youre standing there totally unprotected. You know the five great soldiers from four years ago, three of them were world-class marksmen. They were on a military base in a gun-free zone. They were asked to check their guns quite far away. And a maniac walked in, guns blazing, killed all of five of them. He wouldnt of had a chance if these world-class marksmen had  on a military base  access to their guns. And Im going to look at that whole policy on military bases. If we cant have  ( )  all five were killed. All five. The guy wouldnt have had a chance. But were going to look at that whole military base, gun-free zone. If we cant have our military holding guns, its pretty bad. We had a number of instances on military bases. You know that. So we want to protect our military. We want to make our military stronger and better than its ever been before.  We also need to create a culture in our country that cherishes life and human dignity. Thats part of what were talking about.  A culture that condemns violence and never glorifies violence. We need to foster real human connections and turn classmates and colleagues into friends and neighbors that want to fight for us. Were not just having a conversation about school safety. Youve had conversations  in all fairness, Im pretty new on this job. Were here a little more than a year. Ive been watching this stuff go on for 20 years. The President gets up, everybody is enthusiastic for the first couple of days, then it fades, fades, fades. Nothing ever gets done. We want to see if we can get it done. Lets get it done right.  We really owe it to our country. And Ive been watching for a long time. Seen a lot of words, and Ive seen very little action. And, you know, if you think about, most of its just common sense. Its not do you love guns, do hate guns. Its common sense. Its all common sense. And some of the strongest advocates about what Im saying are the strongest advocates  I know them very well  political people  the strongest advocates for the Second Amendment. But this is common sense. In addition to securing our schools, were also implementing a strategy to secure our streets. We want our kids to be safe everywhere they go, whether theyre in a classroom walking home from school or just outside playing with their friends.  Every child deserves to grow up in a safe community surrounded by a loving family and to have a future filled with opportunity and with hope.  Thank you. Thank you. Just not fair. Reducing violent crime in America is a top priority for my administration, and we will do whatever it takes to get it done. No talk. Were going to do what it takes to get it done.  As youve seen, pretty well reported, that were significantly increasing gun prosecutions by tremendous percentages, and were working to get violent offenders off our streets and behind bars, and get them behind bars quickly, for a long time, or get them the hell out of our country.  In 2017, we brought cases against more violent offenders than any administration in a quarter of a century  more than any administration. And were just gearing up. We have tough people. Ill tell you what  when you deal with MS-13, the only thing they understand is toughness. They dont want anything. All they understand is toughness. If that ICE agent or Border Patrol agent is tougher than them, they respect him. We got the toughest guys youve ever seen. We got tough.  They dont respect anything else. And they shouldnt be in our country. They were let in for years. They shouldnt be, and were getting them out. Our administration prosecuted more people for federal firearm charges than has been done in more than a decade. And again, were just gearing up. Weve convicted 1,200 gang members and nearly 500 human traffickers.  You know what human trafficking  who would think that we have this in this age? And with our foreign partners, weve helped charge or arrest more than 4,000 members of the savage gang that we talked about  MS-13. Now, they dont like guns. You know why? Theyre not painful enough. These are animals. They cut people. They cut them. They cut them up in little pieces and they want them to suffer. And we take them into our country because our immigration laws are so bad. And when we catch them  its called catch-and-release  we have to, by law, catch them and then release them. Catch-and-release. And I cant get the Democrats  and nobody has been able to for years  to approve common-sense measures that, when we catch these animal-killers, we can lock them up and throw away the keys.  In 2017, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 100,000 criminal aliens who have committed tens of thousands of crimes. And believe me, these are great people. They cannot  the laws are just against us. Theyre against  theyre against safety. They dont make sense. And you meet with Democrats and theyre always fighting for the criminal. Theyre not fighting for law-abiding citizens. Theyre always fighting for the criminal.  Doesnt make sense. Here are just some of the criminal charges and convictions for the aliens arrested by ICE: 11,000 charges or convictions for sex crimes; 48,000 for assault; 13,000 for burglary; and 1,800 for killing people. Were cracking down on sanctuary cities. Can you believe this?  Where they protect  thats another one. Because we want our cities to be sanctuaries for law-abiding Americans, not for criminals.  And, by the way, the Senate Democrats and the House Democrats have totally abandoned DACA. Theyve total  they dont even talk to me about it. They have totally abandoned. You know, we get the reputation  like DACA, its not Republican. Well let me tell you, it is Republican, because we want to do something about DACA, get it solved after all these years. The Democrats are being totally unresponsive. They dont want to do anything about DACA, Im telling you. And its very possible that DACA wont happen, and its not because of the Republicans, its going to be because of the Democrats. And frankly, you better elect more Republicans, folks, or it will never happen.  The Democrats voted in favor of sanctuary cities. In other words, they voted to protect criminal aliens instead of voting to protect the American citizens. To secure our country, we are calling on Congress to build a great border wall to stop dangerous drugs and criminals from pouring into our country.  And now theyre willing to give us the wall, but they dont want to give us any of the laws to keep these people out. So were going to get the wall, but they dont want to give us all of the other  chain migration, lottery. Think of a lottery. You have a country. They put names in. You think theyre giving us their good people? Not too many of you people are going to be in a lottery. So we pick out people. Then they turn out to be horrendous, and we dont understand why. Theyre not giving us their best people, folks. Theyre not giving us  I mean, use your heads. Theyre giving us  its a lottery. I dont want people coming into this country with a lottery. I want people coming into this country based on merit. Based on merit.  I want people, and we all want to be admitting people, who have skills, who can support themselves financially, who can contribute to our economy, who will love our people, and who will share our values, who will love our country.  I dont want people who drive a car at 100 miles an hour down the West Side Highway and kill 8 innocent victims, and destroy the lives of 14 more. Nobody talks about that. Nobody ever talks about the people that have been so horribly injured, who lose legs and arms, in Manhattan, where I used to spend my time. I know it very well, the stretch along the West Side Highway. People run in order to stay in shape. They want to be healthy, they want to look good. Theyre running all the time; I see it. They run. We work in different ways.  But they run. No, but think of this  they run. And theyre so  they want to be fit. Theyre proud people. They want to be fit, and theyre running up and down West Side Highway. Its beautiful. Its a beautiful thing. And this maniac takes a car going down the highway, and just turns to a right, and he kills eight. But he really badly wounded 12 to 14 other people. So somebody think of it: Runs to stay in shape, leaves the house, is jogging along, working hard, ends up going home two months later with no leg or with no arm, or with two legs missing. Nobody ever talks about that. They talk about the people, rightfully, that were killed. But they dont talk about the people whose lives have been just changed  just changed. They dont talk about that. This guy came in through chain migration and a part of the lottery system.  They say 22 people came in with him. In other words, an aunt, an uncle, a grandfather, a mother, a father, whoever came in. But a lot of people came in. Thats chain migration. Lets see how those people are doing, by the way. Weve got to change our way. Merit system. I want merit system. Because you know whats happening? All of these companies are coming into our country. Theyre all coming into our country. And when they come in, we need people that are going to work. Im telling you, we need workers now. We need workers.  But when I walked in today, did anyone ever hear me do the snake during the campaign? Because I had five people outside say, Could you do The Snake? And I said, well, people have heard it. Who hasnt heard The Snake? You should read it anyways. (Laughs.) Lets do it anyway. Ill do it. All right? Should we do it?  Now, this was a rock-and-roll song  little amendments  a rock-and-roll song. But every time I do it, people  and you have to think of this in terms of immigration. We have to have great people come into our  I want people to come into our country. And I want people that are going to help us. And I dont want people that are going to come in and be accepting all of the gifts of our country for the next 50 years and contribute nothing. I dont want that, and you dont want that. I want people that are going to help and people that are going to work for Chrysler, who is now moving from Mexico into Michigan, and so many other  and Apple, by the way.  And Foxconn up in Wisconsin. Theyre going to need 25,000 workers. I want people that can come in, and get to work and work hard. Even if it means a learning period  thats fine. But I want people that are going to come in and work. And I want people that love us and look at security. And they want you to be safe, and they want to be safe. I want great people coming into this country. I dont want people coming in the way they do now, because I want people that contribute. So this is called The Snake. And think of it in terms of immigration. And you may love it, or you may say, isnt that terrible. Okay? And if you say, isnt that terrible, who cares? Because the way they treat me  thats peanuts compared to the way they treat me. Okay?  Immigration. On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tenderhearted woman saw a poor, half-hearted, frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Poor thing, she cried, Ill take you in, and Ill take care of you. Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in, for Heavens sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a comforter of silk, and laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk. She hurried home from work that night, and soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake shed taken in had been revived. Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for Heavens sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. She clutched him to her bosom, Youre so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadnt brought you in by now, surely you would have died. She stroked his pretty skin again, and kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for Heavens sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. I saved you, cried the woman. And youve bitten me. Heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous, and now Im going to die. Oh, shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.'  And thats what were doing with our country, folks. Were letting people in, and its going to be a lot of trouble. Its only getting worse. But were giving you protection like never before. Our law enforcement is doing a better job than weve ever done before. And we love our country. And were going to take care of our country. Okay? Were going to take care of our country.  So just in finishing, our country is starting to do very well. Our economy is blazing. Jobs are at a record level. Jobs are so good. 2.7 million jobs created since the election.  Unemployment claims have reached a 45-year low.  African American unemployment has reached the lowest level in our history.  Hispanic unemployment has reached the lowest level in our history.  Women  women unemployment is at the lowest level in 18 years.  Wages are rising for the first time in many, many years.  Small business confidence is at a record high. And thanks to our massive tax cuts, millions of Americans are getting to keep a great percentage of their money instead of paying it to a government that throws it out the window.  So I just leave you with this: We have to fight Nancy Pelosi. They want to give your money away. They want to give your money away. They want to end your tax cuts. They want to do things that you wouldnt even believe, including taking your Second Amendment rights away. They will do that.  So we have to get out there and we have to fight in 18 like never before  just the way you fought with us. Just the way you fought with us. You fought so hard, and you were so tough, and you were so smart. You were so smart. And you know what? I know for a fact you did the right thing, because were looking at the numbers. And the numbers  even they have to give credit for the kind of numbers that were producing. Nobody has ever seen anything like it.  Under my administration, the era of economic surrender is over. Were renegotiating trade deals that are so bad, whether its NAFTA or whether its World Trade Organization, which created China  that created  if you look at China, it was going along like this, then we opened, stupidly, this deal. And China has been like a rocket ship ever since. And now, last year, we had almost a $500 billion trade deficit with China. We cant have that. We cant have that. I have great respect for President Xi, but we cant have that. We have to go, and we have to do what we have to do. We just cant let countries  as an example, Mexico. We have a $100 billion trade deficit with Mexico. What does that tell you? You know what it tells you? NAFTA is no good. It never was any good. But for some reason, nobody ever changed it. They emptied our factories  you got to see the car plants and the auto plants in Mexico. Like  youve never seen anything like it before. I want those companies  and theyre starting  I want them back here. I want them back here. Theyre going to come back here, too.  And we want to make our neighbors happy. But we cant continuously have other nations taking advantage of the United States like never before. And this has gone on for a long time. This has gone on for longer  the last administration was a disaster, but this has gone on for much longer than the last administration. And we got to change it. Were going to change it. So were renegotiating deals. And you know what? Hate to say it, but if we cant make a fair deal for the United States, we will terminate the deal and well start all over again.  We have to do it.  So, under my administration, and with your help  dont forget  you, many of you, were the forgotten people. You were the people that, when the polls came out, they didnt know that you existed. The Democrats are trying to figure out who you are, because they want to get you back. But you are people  weve had people that never voted, but theyre great patriots  but they never saw anybody they wanted to vote for. Then they go to the election, theyve got Trump-Pence, Trump-Pence. They got hats, they got all sorts of things. Trump over here  Make America Great Again hats. Right?  So our country is starting to do well. We are going to make it great, better, safer than it ever was before. The reason is you. This has been a great movement. They try like hell, they cannot stand what weve done. But were doing the right thing. Were even doing the right thing for them. They just dont know it yet.  They just dont know it yet. Even the media  the media will absolutely support me sometime prior to the election. All those horrible people back there, theyre going to support me. You know why? Because if somebody else won, their ratings would go down, theyd all be out of business.  Nobody would watch. Theyd all be out of business. So I just want to tell you that we are going to win. Id love you to get out there, work really hard for 18. We need more Republicans to keep the tax cuts and keep all of this going. And I love you. I respect you. I appreciate everything youve done for the country.   I appreciate everything youve done. I do want to say, because people have asked  North Korea  we imposed today the heaviest sanctions ever imposed on a country before.  And frankly, hopefully something positive can happen. We will see. But hopefully something positive can happen. But that just was announced, and I wanted to let you know. We have imposed the heaviest sanctions ever imposed. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for everything. You have been incredible partners.  Incredible partners. And I will let you know in the absolute strongest of terms, were going to make America great again, and I will never, ever, ever let you down. Thank you very much.  Thank you."
"Thank you to our First Lady, Melania, who has been so incredible.  Thank you. And we are blessed to have you as our First Lady. Really are. Its great to be back in the beautiful state of New Hampshire.  I dont know if you remember, but this is the first place I came for the primaries.  And this is the room right here. So I like this room. This has been a good room. Were honored to be joined by your wonderful and very talented Governor, Chris Sununu. Chris, thank you.  Thank you, Chris. Oh, and theres another talented governor. Governor Sununu, stand up.  I have to tell you, there was nobody tougher on Trump at the beginning.  Its true. There was nobody on television tougher. And then we met each other and we liked each other, and he went from the worst to the best. Governor, thank you. (Laughs.) I mean that, too. Thank you. I want to thank also Attorney General Sessions, and Secretarythank you, Jeff.( )Secretary Azar, Secretary Nielsen, and Surgeon General Adams for joining us at this very important event. The First Lady and I just visited the Manchester Fire Department Safe Station. Talking about it all over the country. The Fire Chief, Dan Goonan, and all of the first responders with us today, thank you. Youve been incredible, and youre saving American lives. Were also joined by a number of law enforcement officers who we love. Our police, DEA, ICE, Border Patrol agents, and Customs officers work night and day to keep drugs out of our communities and criminals off of our streets.  So today, we thank you, we honor you, and we want you to know that we will always have your backs 100 percent. Thank you very much, law enforcement. Thank you.  I especially want to acknowledge all of the families with us today who have endured terrible hardships because of the opioid crisis, and especially those who have lost precious loved ones. Ive been saying this for a long time, and it all started right here in New Hampshire, because I see what youre going through. About as bad as there is anywhere in the country. And I said Id be back, and we are back. And were pouring a lot of money and a lot of talent into this horrible problem. And we pledge to honor the memory of those you lost with action and determination and resolve. Well get it. We will not rest until the end. And I will tell you, this scourge of drug addiction in America will stop. It will stop.  Every day, 116 Americans die from an opioid-related overdose. In New Hampshire, the overdose, really, death rateI mean, can you believe this? The death rate is double the national average. Its got difficulties like people wouldnt believe. Defeating this epidemic will require the commitment of every state, local, and federal agency. Failure is not an option. Addiction is not our future. We will liberate our country from this crisis. Never been like this. Hundreds of yearsnever been like this. And we will raise a drug-free generation of American children. Last October, we declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency. Should have been done a long time before. Since then, weve worked with Congress to ensure at least 6 billion additional dollars, going through right now, in new funding in 2018 and 2019 to combat the opioid crisis. And we will be spending the most money ever on the opioid crisis.  On our most recent National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, people across the country turned in more than 900,000 pounds of unused or expired prescription drugsmore than the weight of three Boeing 757s. Our Customs and Border Protectionand these people, the job they do is incredibleseized nearly 1,500 pounds of fentanyl last year, nearly three times the amount seized in 2016. And I told China: Dont send it.  And I told Mexico: Dont send it. Dont send it. In 2017, ICE arrested criminal aliens with 76,000 charges and convictions for dangerous drug crimes. Last year, the Department of Justice prosecuted more than 3,000 defendants in cases involving opioid, all of the trafficking, and the related crimes3,000 casesincluding a pharmacist, a physicians assistant, and an opioid trafficker, each charged with committing serious drug crimes in New Hampshire. Whether you are a dealer or doctor or trafficker or a manufacturer, if you break the law and illegally peddle these deadly poisons, we will find you, we will arrest you, and we will hold you accountable.  Thank you. Here in New Hampshire, I applaud all of the Drug Enforcement Agents and law enforcement officers who recently coordinated Operation Granite Shield, an 18-hour enforcement action targeting drug traffickers that resulted in the arrest of 151 people. These are terrible people, and we have to get tough on those people, because we can have all the Blue Ribbon committees we want, but if we dont get tough on the drug dealers, were wasting our time. Just remember that. Were wasting our time. And that toughness includes the death penalty.  You know, its an amazing thing. Some of these drug dealers will kill thousands of people during their lifetimethousands of peopleand destroy many more lives than that. But they will kill thousands of people during their lifetime, and theyll get caught and theyll get 30 days in jail. Or theyll go away for a year, or theyll be fined. And yet, if you kill one person, you get the death penalty or you go to jail for life. So if were not going to get tough on the drug dealers who kills thousands of people and destroy so many peoples lives, we are just doing the wrong thing. We have got to get tough. This isnt about nice anymore. This isnt about committees. This isnt about lets get everybody and have dinners, and lets have everybody go to a Blue Ribbon committee and everybody gets a medal for, frankly, talking and doing nothing. This is about winning a very, very tough problem. And if we dont get very tough on these dealers, its not going to happen, folks. Its not going to happen. And I want to win this battle. I dont want to leave at the end of seven years and have this problem, okay?  I dont want that. Right? Thank you. Not going to happen. Thank you all. A lot of voters in this room. I see that. Thank you.  No, were going to solve this problem. Were going to solve it with brains, were going to solve it with resolve, and were going to solve it with toughness. Because toughness is the thing that they most fear. Thats what they most fear. So to the brave agents and officers, thank you for protecting us all. Last year, my commission on combatting the incredible crisis of opioids issued 56 recommendations. My administration agreed with all of the commissions goals, and weve worked aggressively to put them into action. Today, Im here to announce additional steps that were taking as part of our nationwide initiative to address the opioid crisis, and, by the way, the drug crisisthe general drug crisis. First, were taking action to reduce drug demand by preventing Americans from becoming addicted in the first place. So important. That includes increasing federal funding for the development of non-addictive painkillers. And we have to come up with a solution where we come up with a painkiller thats not so addictive. And we can do it. Were not that far off. We can do it. These things are incredibly addictive. So were going to find that answer also. Here with us today are Jim and Jean Mozer. They lost their beautiful son, Adam, to a fentanyl overdose. His addiction began with prescription pills he found in their kitchen cabinet. They have since begun the Zero Left initiative to help families get rid of excess painkillers. Jim and Jean, were sorry for your lossa great boy; hes a great boyand we applaud your strength and your leadership. And where are you? Where are you? Come on up. Come on up here. Come on up here.  Tell us about your boy.  Thank you, darling. You take care of yourself. Okay?  Thank you. Thank you very much.  Thank you. Appreciate it. And so many cases like that. Were also taking action to prevent addiction by addressing the problem of overprescribing.  And our Department of Justice is looking very seriously into bringing major litigation against some of these drug companies. Well bring it at a federal level.  Some states are already bringing it, but were thinking about bringing it at a very high federal level. And well do a job. Were going to cut nationwide opioid prescriptions by one-third over the next three years. Were also going to make sure that virtually all prescriptions reimbursed by the federal government follow best practices for prescribing. Well ensure that opioid addiction is not subsidized by the American taxpayer.  The best wayso importantand the best way to beat the drug crisis is to keep people from getting hooked on drugs to begin with. As part of that effort( )so important. And this has been something that Ive been very strongly in favor of: spending a lot of money on great commercials showing how bad it is, so that kids seeing those commercials during the right shows on television or whereverthe Internetwhen they see these commercials theyI dont want any part of it. Thats the least expensive thing we can do, where you scare them from ending up like the people in the commercials. And well make them very, very bad commercials. Well make them pretty unsavory situations. And youve seen it before, and its had an impact on smoking and cigarettes. You see what happens to the body; you see what happens to the mind. So were announcing a new website, CrisisNextDoor.gov, where Americans can share their stories about the danger of the opioid addiction and addictions. But were thinking about doing, really, a largescale rollout of commercials that show how bad it is for the kids. And when they see those commercials, hopefully, theyre not going to be going to drugs of any kinddrugs of any kind. And well save a lot of lives, and well make their life a lot easier. This epidemic can affect anyone, and thats why we want to educate everyone. The second part of our initiative is to reduce the supply of illicit drugs. Ninety percent of the heroin in America comes from our southern border, where, eventually, the Democrats will agree with us and well build the wall to keep the damn drugs out.   Its pretty amazing. They dont want to go with DACA, because they dont care about DACA. But theyre trying to tie the wall to DACA, and DACA to the wall. And they want to keep DACA for the campaign instead of getting it approved, which we could do very easily. The Republicans are totally in favor of doing something substantial for DACA. But the Democrats like it as a campaign issue, so they dont get it approved. And they want to tie it to the wall, which is okay with me. But both should get approved. They dont want it to be approved. Remember what I said: They dont want it to be approved. They want to make it part of the campaign. Well, well make it part of the campaign, also. And well win, because were going to win on those issues.  My administration is also confronting things called sanctuary cities that shield dangerous criminals. And every day, sanctuary cities release illegal immigrants and drug dealers, traffickers, and gang members back into our communities. Theyre protected by these cities. And you say, What are they doing? Theyre safe havens for just some terrible people. Some terrible people. And theyre making it very dangerous for our law enforcement officers. You see it all the time. As the people of New Hampshire have learned firsthand, ending sanctuary cities is crucial to stopping the drug addiction crisis. And your governor, who is greatthe numbers are going down in New Hampshire. I dont know if youve seen it, but the numbers are going down. Chris, we were juststand up, Chris.  Its really one of the few bright spots where the numbers actually are going down, and thats a tremendous achievement. Thank you, Chris.  According to a recent Dartmouth study, the sanctuary city of Lawrence, Massachusetts is one of the primary sources of fentanyl in six New Hampshire counties. ICE recently arrested 15 MS-13 gang membersthese are not good people, folks. Okay? These are bad, bad people. They dont use guns. Theyd rather use knives because its more painful and it takes longer. These are bad peoplein Boston, Massachusetts, which is a place where you have sanctuary cities. Im repeating my call on Congress to block funds for sanctuary cities and to close the deadly loopholes that allow criminals back into our country and into our country in the first place.  You know, some things are very understandable. We have lots of issues where were on both sides of an issue, and you can understand the other side even though you dont agree. Sanctuary cities are hard to understand for people because they dont get it. They dont get it. You see whats going on in California, how terrible it is, how dangerous it is. And theyre all trying to protect sanctuary cities. And whether its Kate Steinle or so many others, theyd be around today if these people werent allowed back into our country through, in this case, the southern border, at least five times. And look at the damage, and then look at this verdict. Look at the verdict. Can you believe the verdict? So we have to get a lot smarter. We have to get a lot tougher. And speaking of tough, because here with us today is ICE Agent Derek Dunn. Derek worked with state police to uncover a major drug smuggling operation in Lawrence, Massachusetts.  Wheres Derek? Derek. Wheres Derek? Come here, Derek. I love tough guys. We need tough guys. Come here, Derek.   Thank you. He didnt know he was going to do that.  And you didnt know you were going to do that. But thats in honor of your boy, right? You made a big impact. I also want to mention ICE Agent Ron Morin and Manchester Police Detective Patrick Maguire. They helped lead the team that arrested a terrible human trafficker who used opioids to harm, in a very violent way, his victims. Thank you both for bringing the trafficker to a very strong and swift justice. Where are you guys? Thank you.  Stand up, fellas. Thank you. Thank you. Were also shutting down illegal online marketplaces and preventing drugs that come from China and other countries from bypassing our borders. And were getting very tough on it. Its not that we have a choice. We dont have a choice. We can be nice, and we can be soft and weak, and youre not going to have a country left. So we have to strengthen up, and strengthen up our laws so that we can do what we have to do. We have to stop this from happening. Drug traffickers kill so many thousands of our citizens every year. And thats why my Department of Justice will be seeking so many much tougher penalties than weve ever had, and we will be focusing on the penalty that I talked about previously for the big pushers, the ones that are really killing so many people. And that penalty is going to be the death penalty.  If you look atif you look at other countriesIve gotten to know the leaders of many countries. And I wont mention names, but you know the countries Im talking about. I go around, How is your drug problem? We dont have much of a drug problem. What do you mean you dont have a drug problem? Well, we dont have. I say, how come? We have zero tolerance for drug dealers. I said, What does that mean? That means we have the death penalty for drug dealers. We dont have a drug problem. Take a look at some of these countries where they dont play games. They dont have a drug problem. We have court cases that last 10 years, and then they get out at the end. We got to be tough. We have to be smart. We have to change the laws, and were working on that right now. The Department of Justice is working very, very hard on that. But the ultimate penalty has to be the death penalty. Now, maybe our country is not ready for that. Its possibleits possible that our country is not ready for that. And I can understand it, maybe. Although, personally, I cant understand that. But there are people that are good people, that are strong, smart people, and they would differ with most of us. But I think unless you do that, unless you have really, really powerful penalties, led by the death penalty for the really bad pushers and abusers, we are going to get nowhere. And Im telling you, we are going to get somewhere. Companies must also be held accountable. The Department of Justice recently created a task force to coordinate investigations and lawsuits against manufacturers and other bad actors that harm our citizens. And I can tell you that Jeff Sessions, whos here with us now, feels so strongly about this. And theyre working very hard and very effectively on that, and so we appreciate that very much. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff.  Thank you. I can think of nothing more important. The third part of our initiative is to get lifesaving help to those who need it. Were going to make sure our first responders have access to lifesaving overdose-reversing drugswhich, by the way, are amazing. Here with us today is Mike Kelly, the president of Adapt Pharma. Adapt Pharma makes an overdose-reversing drug for opioids, which Ive watched and seen work. Its called Narcan. Its actually incredible. Today, we applaud Adapt Pharmas decision to provide freefreeNarcan to all high schools, colleges, and universities in America. Id like you to come up, Mike. Come up.  Wheres Mike? Come up, Mike. Thats really an amazing and generous offer. Thank you. Tell us a little bit about that, Mike. Please.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Mike. Its amazing, generous. And Ive watched the police and the firethey come around and theyve become so good at it. But Ive seen people that are just about dead wake up. Now, the problem is, they then go back, in many cases, to the drugs, and they do it again and again and again. But we have to work on that. We have to work on that very, very strongly. I also want to recommend and commend a Richmond-based company, Kalo, for donating more than 300,000 doses of their overdose-reversing drug to first responders, which has already saved more than 5,000 lives in a very short period of time. My administration has made clear that medical providers can share crucial information with family members about an overdose so that their loved ones can help them get into treatment. We need treatment. Were making medically assisted treatment more available and affordable, and we continue to increase competition and drive down drug prices. And were driving them down. Were going to have a major news conference, probably at the White House, in about a month, because all of you peopleand Im talking about prescription drugs, not necessarily the drugs that were talking about here. But we pay, as a country, so much more for drugs because of the drug lobbies and other reasons, and the complexity of distribution, which is basically another term for saying, How do we get more money? And if you compare our drug prices to other countries in the world, in some cases its many times higher for the exact same pill, or whatever it is, in the exact same package, made in the exact same plant. And were going to change that. And I would like to ask Secretary Azar just to come up and mention opioid, but also talk about how were getting your drug prices down. And weve already saved billions of dollars for our country, and its reflected in much lower drug prices. Watch whats going to happen over a short period of time. This man is one of the great professionals, ran an incredibly successful drug company. Who knows better than the guy running the drug company, Eli Lilly? Thats your company, right? Or was.  Now youre on the other side, though. So nobody knows better. The most respected man in that industryand we got him to work, because he loves our country. Would you tell them a little bit about what you have planned for drug prices and also opioids, in terms of stoppage? Please. Secretary.   Great.  Thank you, Alex. Youll be seeing drug prices falling very substantially in the not-too-distant future, and its going to be beautiful. And I want to thank, also, Scott Gottlieb. Scott is working on different things, but one of them is called Right to Try. Do you know what Right to Try is? These are for people that are terminally ill. And there are very, very good-looking combinations of things, or pills, medicines, potential cures. And theyre terminal, and theyre not going to be living much longer. And we dont have the right to give them these experimental drugs or these early-stage drugs that really show promise, for whatever reason. But they say because they dont want to harm somebody, if you can believe it. They dont want to harm. So the people will oftentimes go to foreign lands, foreign countries. Theyll do anything. They want hope. They want hope. Right to Try. So were working with Congressman Greg Walden and numerous other senators and congressmen. And I think were going to have good luck. The Democrats have been pushing back on it, but I think many of them are also coming along. Its called Right to Try. A patient is terminal. Theres good progress made with a certain drug. Were going to make it possible for that patient to get that drug. And maybe its going to work. Its hope. Its incredible; theyve been talking about this for years and years and years. Were going to get it approved. So important. All right?  To further expand treatment, Im also calling on Congress to change the restrictive 1970s-era law that prevents Medicaid from paying for care at certain treatment facilities with more than 16 beds. Its such an important factor. In the meantime, my administration is granting waivers to states so they can help people who need treatment now, Governor. Were also going to help inmates leaving prison get treatment so they can have a second chance to become productive, law-abiding citizens. And what weve really done for the inmatesyou know, its very hard for them to get out of jail and get a job. What weve really done for thembetter than anything we can sign, any legislation that we can pass demanding that you hirewere getting a great economy. It hasnt been this good in many, many years. Some people say its never been this good. And whats happened is, as you see, unemployment is way down, and people are starting to hire inmates. And the results are incredible. Some of these employers are calling up, saying, Wow, what great people. Were giving them a second chance. Its very, very important. So the tremendous economy is helping us very much with that program. We want every American( )thank you. We want every American to be able to be able to reach their full God-given potential. And we will succeed together as one people, one nation, and one great American family. Because Americans never give in, and we never, ever give up. This group never gives up, right? Never give up. Your boy.  The brave families here today remind us that the strength of America is found in the heart of our people. We see Americas heart in the parents who wont accept addiction as the fate of their children. And if something horrible has befallen that family, they go around and they want to make sure it never happens to another family. And thats why we thank you so much, and we thank your boy.  He did not die in vain. We see it in sons and daughters who cheer on moms and dads as they recover. We see it in the doctors and nurses who provide constant and loving care. We see it in the heroic law enforcement officers who race into unimaginable danger. We see it in EMTs and firefighters who act so quickly to save so many lives. And we see this American heart in the men and women who fight every day to help rescue their fellow citizens from the grips of addiction. These are the courageous souls who remind us that, for America, there is nothing beyond our reach. Nothing at all.  Nothing. We will defeat this crisis, we will protect our beautiful children, and we will ensure that tomorrow is better, brighter, stronger, and greater than ever before. Because as long as we have trust in our citizens, pride in our country, and faith in our God, we will not fail.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Together, we will end the scourge of drug addiction in America once and for all. We will win. We will beat it. Well be tough. Well be smart. Well be kind. Well be loving. Well do whatever we have to do. But were going to win. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.  Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Thank you, Lee. Thank you, Lee. Thank you.  And thank you also to Commander Harman. Were grateful for your service, for your leadership, and this incredible organization. Thats what it isits incredible.  Im honored to be here today in Kansas City, Missouri, to pay tribute to the men and women who make freedom possible. Kansas City. And what a special place. What a special group of people. The Veterans of Foreign Wars, you people should be very proud of yourselves. I want to personally thank each and every one of you who has served our country in uniform, defended our nation in battle, and protected our great American flag. Thank you.  I also want to recognize a great Kansas City legend, who I met today at the planesomebody that Ive been a fan of for a long time; a member of the Baseball Hall of FameGeorge Brett of the Kansas City Royals.  Wheres George? Hes around here someplace. I said, George, how many years? Twenty. What was your batting average? .305. I said, thats pretty good.305 for 20 years. Special guy. I want to thank a true patriot, your executive director, Bob Wallace, along with your outstanding National Auxiliary President, Dee Guillory. Thank you, Dee.  And congratulations to VFWs incoming leadership, BJ Lawrence and Sandy Kreebull.  Where are they? Great. Great. Congratulations. Were also joined by our brand new VA Secretary, Robert Wilkiehes going to be fantasticwho was just confirmed by the Senate last night with an overwhelming vote. The only ones, actually, that voted against him were all of the people, super-lefts, that are running against me in two and a half years.   Every one of them. If you want to know whos running, just take a look at Wilkies score, because every single one of themthere will be probably quite a few morebut in the Senate, that was it. But what a great vote. And hes going to do a fantastic job. Theres been nothing more important to me.  Thank you. Thank you. I also want to thank our Acting VA Secretary, Peter ORourke, for doing such a fantastic job in the meantime, holding down the fort until Wilkie got approved. And Peter is going to be joining the whole team, and they are doing numbers, and they are doing a job, with Choice and with all of the other things that weve gotten approved. Theyre doing some job for our vets. It was a very important commitment that I made to you during the campaign, and were fulfilling that commitment. Several terrific members of Congress are here today as well. Great friends of mine; theyve helped me so much. Were joined by Kevin Yoder from Kansas.  Incredible guy. Kevin? Kevin Yoder. What an incredible guy. And members of Missouris congressional delegation: Vicky Hartzler, Billy Long, Jason Smith, along with your states Attorney General. Hopefullywe need him so badlyhopefully, your new senator-to-be, Josh Hawley. We need Josh badly.  Josh, thank you. In fact, Josh, do me a favor. Come up here just for a second. Just shake my hand. This guy is a special man. Come here, Josh. Come here.   Wow. Goodbye, folks.  That was great. What a great young man. Before going any further, I want to take this moment to send our prayers to the victims of the tragic boat accident that took place in your great state last week. And I have to tell you, the whole world was watching that. We lost 17 beautiful souls, including 9 members of one family, and babies for whom life was just beginning. Their lives were cut short, but they and their loved ones will never, ever be forgotten. A tragedy. We will hold their memory close to our hearts. I want to thank your Governor, Mike Parsona friend of mine, a great personfor his leadership during this terrible tragedy, along with the Coast Guard and all of the first responders who were incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you.  Next year will mark the 120th anniversary of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the oldest major veterans organization in our country. Thats pretty good, right?  For more than a century, the VFW has represented American heroes who promoted American values. And they did so with honor. You are the universal symbol of the patriotic pride that beats loudly in every single American heart. We dont apologize for America anymore. We stand up for America.  We stand up for the patriots who defend America.  And we stand up for our National Anthem.  Were putting America first again, and we are seeing the incredible results. Were destroying the bloodthirsty killers known as ISISalmost gone. Were calling the threat by its real name, a name that wasnt mentioned for a long time. Its called radical Islamic terrorism. Thats what it is.  You have to know your enemy before you can defeat your enemy. Earlier this year, I recognized the true capital of Israelas Josh saidJerusalem, where we just opened the American Embassy.  They thought it would never be named. And after it was named, they thought it would never get built. And I built it within four months. How about that one? You know that story. Four months.  They came to my office; they had a document to be signed. One billion dollars for the embassy. I said, $1 billion? They didnt have a site; they didnt know anything. And our great Ambassador to Israel calledDavid Friedman, whos a very successful lawyer in New York City; one of the mostand he said, You know, we can do it a lot faster. We have a great site. We have a building already on the site. We could renovate the building quickly, and we could open the embassy, if youd like to do that, sir. And I said, How much would it cost? He said, $150,000. I said, What? What?  He said, I think we can do it in four months. So were talking about $1 billion, maybe in 20 years, maybe never. Probably never happens, right? We know what goes on. He starts out, Id rather build ships or Id rather build something else, if we can save the money.  We can save that money; lets use it wisely. So I said, David, lets not do 150, lets do, like, how about $400,000? And make it nicer. And its beautiful. It just opened, and it is beautiful. So, were many years ahead of schedule. And I understand, frankly, every President, for the last many Presidents, have said, Were going to open our embassy in Jerusalem. And then they never did it. They all failed. They never did it. And I understand why. Because when it came time, and when people were hearing rumors about it, I was inundated from calls of every leader from all over the world, imploring me, even demanding that we not do it, to a point where I never took their calls. I called them back after I did it. You know, its one of those jobs( )let me call them back.  I was getting calls from kings and presidents and dictators. I was getting a call from everyone. And when I knew what it was about, Id say, Tell them Ill call them next week.  Then I called them and I said, Oh, I didnt know you felt that way. Well, its too late.  But I understand why they didnt do it, because there was tremendous pressure. We did it. Were proud of it. Its there. Enjoy it.  And, by the way, the biggest fan may very well be the evangelicals. They wanted that built. They wanted that there. So were verywere very proud of it.  Weve removed unnecessary restraints on our warfighters in Afghanistan. Those who risk their life and limb for our country, they deserve rules of engagement that give them the best opportunity to finally defeat the enemy.  And were makingfor the first time in years, were making a lot of progress in Afghanistan. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal.  And Iran is not the same country anymore. That I can say. And well see what happens. But were ready to make a real deal, not the deal that was done by the previous administration, which was a disaster.  Were also pursuing the denuclearization of North Korea and a new future of prosperity, security, and peace on the Korean Peninsula and all of Asia. New images, just today, show that North Korea has begun the process of dismantling a key missile site. And we appreciate that.  We had a fantastic meeting with Chairman Kim, and it seems to be going very well. I know we are joined today by many incredible veterans of the Korean War. Thank you for your courageous service. As you may know, were also working to bring back the remains of your brothers-in-arms who gave their lives in Korea. And I hope that, very soon, these fallen warriors will begin coming home to lay at rest in American soil. Thats starting the process.  At the very end of our meeting, I said to Chairman Kimgood relationship, good feelingI said, I would really appreciate if you could do that. He said, It will be done. So I was very happy, and I think that process is starting fairly soon, we hope.  Because we believe in no American left behind. We believe in that, right? No American left behind.  I want to thank the VFW for your devotion to our fallen heroes, unknown soldiers, prisoners of war, and those missing in action, and their families. No one better understands the horrors of war than the people in this room. It is the warrior who bears the scars of battle and who prays most fervently for peace. That is why we remember George Washingtons advice, that the best way to preserve the peace is to be prepared for war.  And that is exactly what we do all the time. My thinking is always on military and military strength. That is why Im proud to report that we are now undertaking the greatest rebuilding of our United States military in its history.  We have secured $700 billion for defense this year, and $716 billion next year approved.  Were ordering 147 new F-35 Lightning fighters. This is an incredible plane. Its stealth; you cant see it. So when I talk to even people from the other side, theyre trying to order our plane.  They like the fact that you cant see it. I said, How would it do in battle with your plane? They say, Well, we have one problem: We cant see your plane.  Thats a big problem. Stealth. Super Stealth. The best in the world. We make the best military equipment in the world. Also, remember this: jobs.  Were ordering 239 Apache and Black Hawk helicopters. You know what they are. Theyre incredible.  Nineteen major naval vessels, and nearly 8,000 Humvees. And these will be Humvees that are used by our great soldiers, not handed out to everybody like youve been reading about in the past.  All made right here in the USA.  And were adding nearly 30,000 new soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines. And Ive directed the Pentagon to begin the process of creating the sixth branch of our military. Its called the Space Force.  We are living in a different world and we have to be able to adapt. And thats what it is. A lot of very important things are going to be taking place in space. And I just dont mean going up to the moon and going up to Mars, where well be going very soon. Well be going to Mars very soon. But from a military standpoint, space is becoming every day more and more important. Im also thrilled to say that we have secured for our military servicemembers and their families the largestyou dont really want it, youre too patriotic for thisthe largest pay raise in almost a decade.  Largest pay raise. You dont want it. Nah. Anybody willing to give it up for the sake of your country?  Okay, keep it. You deserve it. You really do. Its been a long time since youve gotten a raise. You deserve it. My administration is committed to ensuring that our warfighters have the tools, the resources, the firepower that they need to defeat our enemies with overwhelming force. Hopefully we will never have to use the kind of power that Im building and helping to build for you. Hopefully people will look at us and theyll say, Lets pass. Lets pass. ( ) America is a peace-loving nation. We do not seek conflict. But if conflict is forced upon us, we will defend ourselves. And if we must, we will fight and we will do nothing but win.  As the great General MacArthur once said, In war there is no substitute for victory. Victory. Were also committed to ensuring that when our warriors return home as veterans, they receive the best care anywhere on Earth.  Since taking office, and working alongside of the VFWand, by the way, your representatives have done an incredible job on helping us with the VA. A complicated subject. So many different things. They help us so much. Because we put in legislationI said, lets make sure its legislation thats good and that works, not legislation thats obsolete before we even get it. If were going to fight like hell to get everybody to approve it, lets get approved whats good. And were enacted some of the largest VA reforms in the history of the VA.  Probably the largest. Last year, I signed into the law landmark VA Accountability Act, which nobody thought we could get approved. Nobody. Were good at getting things approved.  Nobody thought. Now, when a bad personmaybe a federal employee, in this casebut somebody bad mistreats or neglects or abuses our great veterans in their time of need, we can turn to them, look at them in the eye, and say, Youre fired. Get out! Get out!  Before, there was nothing you could do. You had to live with these people. Weve gotten rid of a lot of people over the last year. Only the bad ones. The good ones we cherish. We cherish the good ones. But we had some bad apples, and theyre gone. As promised, we established the White House VA Hotline, and every VA medical center now offers same-day emergency mental healthcare. Something very important.  Were greatly expanding tele-health and walk-in clinics so our veterans can get anywhere at any timethey can get what they need. They can learn about the problem. And they dont have to necessarily drive long distances and wait. We are alsoits been a very big success.  Were also processing veteran disability claims more quickly than ever before, by far. The VA has implemented the Decision Ready Claims process where claims can be completed in under two weeks. Were striving for one daybut under two weeks. It used to be many, many months.  Last year, I signed legislationits amazing, I just said, last year. Its been a long time already, hasnt it?  That was some campaign, wasnt it?  I signed legislation so that veterans can use their GI Bill education benefits at any point in their lifetime. Its a big difference.  They never expire, so vets can get the education they need when it is right for them. And with the VFWs tremendous help, we passed Veterans Choicethe biggest thing ever.  The biggest thing. Thats got to be the biggest improvement you can have. So now, if you cant get treatment that you need in a timely mannerpeople used to wait two weeks, three weeks, eight weeksthey couldnt get to a doctoryou will have the right to see a private doctor immediately and we will pay for it. And you know what? Its very, very cost effective. And thousands and thousands of lives are going to be saved. And your quality of life is going to be so much better. So you dont have to wait online for two and a half weeks to see a doctor, like in the past. Veterans Choice has been passed.  And my administration also understands that we cannot be a safe country if we are not a prosperous country. We have to think of ourselves. You have to see these trade deals Im working on; theyre a disaster. Were losing hundreds of billions of dollars with individual countries a year. And theyre stickingyou got to stick it out. You got to justwe got to fight it. Nobody else fought it. I went to some of the countries, I said, How did it get so imbalanced? They said, Nobody ever called.  They said, Nobody ever called. Theyd do whatever they wanted and wed just put up with it. Not any longer folks. Not any longer.  Were making tremendous progress. Theyre all coming. They dont want to have those tariffs put on them. Theyre all coming to see us. And the farmers will be the biggest beneficiary.  Watch. Were opening up markets. You watch whats going to happen. Just be a little patient. Theyre all aiming at anybody that likes me. And they have lobbyists like nobody has ever seen. They have the best lobbyists ever put together. I was hearing and reading that they have some of the greatest lobbying teams ever put together. Youve got to stop the President from putting tariffs on these countries and these companies that are ripping off the United States. Youve got to stop him. Just remember, were going to do something that, honestly, nobody else could do. Nobody else could do. We have a lot of   Thank you, darling.  I like you too. I like her. Thank you very much. That was good timing.  Were now in the midst of a great economic revival. And its for that reason that I chosethis is the time. Last year, our country lost 817 billionwith a Bdollars on trade. We lost $817 billion. And people say, Oh, could you do it this week? Could you get it done immediately? These countries have been ripping us off for decades. It doesnt take a week. It takes a little longer. But were going to get it done. But just remember, we cant lose $817 billion. We rebuilt China. What the European Union is doing to us is incredible. How bad. They made a $151 billion last yearour trade deficit with the European Union. They sound nice but theyre rough. Theyre all coming in to see me tomorrow. Theyre all coming to the White House. I said, You have to change. They didnt want to change. I said, Okay. Good. Were going to tariff your cars. They send millions of carsMercedes, all of them, BMW. So many cars. I said, Were going to have to tariff your cars. They said, When can we show up? When can we be there?  Would tomorrow be okay? Oh, folks, stick with us. Stick with us.  Amazing. But remember, they have the biggest, best, strongest lobbyists, and theyre doing a number. Just stick with us. Dont believe the crap you see from these peoplethe fake news.  I mean, I saw a piece on NBC today. NBCnot just CNN. CNN is the worst.  But I saw a piece on NBC; it was heart-throbbing. They were interviewing peoplethey probably go through 20, and then they pick the one that sounds like the worst. But they went through a group of people. In fact, I wanted to say, I got to do something about this Trump.  Terrible. And that piece was done by the lobbyists and by the people that they hire. It was a total setup. This country is doing better than its ever done before, economically. This is the time to take off the rip-off of tariff. We have to do it.  You know, other countries have tariffs on us. So when I say, Well, Im going to put tariffs on them, they all start screaming, Hes using tariffs.' China charges us, when we make a car, a 25 percent tariff. We charge them 2.5 percent. Other than that, its a fair deal. Okay?  Similar things with other countries, like the European Union. Theyre a big abuser. But its all working out. And just remember: What youre seeing and what youre reading is not whats happening. And Ill tell you, I have so many people that are so in favorbecause we have to make our country truly great again. Remember? Make America Great Again. And then, in two and a half years, its called, Keep America Great. So the way we keep America great is to make at least reasonableIm not sayingat least reasonable, at least fair trade deals. Not stupid trade deals, like weve put up with for 25 years. So were changing it, and were changing it rapidly.  Over the last little more than a year and a half, weve created 3.7 million jobs since election. African American, Hispanic, and Asian American unemployment has reached the lowest levels ever recorded in our countrys historythe lowest levels. Unemploymentlowest level.  Remember, I used to sayI said it here: What do you have to lose? I was right. Womens unemployment recently achieved a 65-year low. Lowest in 65 years.  Youll like this one. Veterans unemployment has fallen to the lowest level in almost 18 years. Were working to make it better. Im sorry. You know, 18 years isnt so good when you hear history and 65 years.  Eighteen years. And Ill guarantee, within a month or two months, that 18 will be even a much higher number. We take great care of our vets. Consumer, business, and manufacturing confidence has reached its all-time highs. Confidence is all-time high. Weve cut a record number of job-killing regulations. No President, no matter how long theyve been in officeeven though were only here for a short timehas cut anywhere near the regulations. And these are unnecessary. These are waste regulations. It would take 20 years to get approval to build a highway. Were trying to bring it down to one year. We have it down to about two. Were trying to get it down to one. And if it doesnt work, or if its environmentally unsound, or theres something wrong, were not going approve it. But were not going to take a process 20, 21 years, and then raise your hand that its not approved. Well let you know in a period of a year or maybe two. Right now, its at two; were trying to bring it down to one. We passed the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. Biggest in history.  And unfortunately, we had tremendous opposition for lowering your taxes from Claire McCaskill. She voted against. Unbelievable.  Unbelievable. And she wants to now end it so that you pay more. You figure this one out. I dont knowis that good? You figure that one out. In the first quarter of this year alone, American companies repatriated a record of nearly $300 billionthis is in the first quarter. And its coming back into our country, with our companies, and our employment, and building plants, and factories, and headquarters in our country, where it belongs.  We think the numberand this is all because of our tax reform and tax cutswe think the number will be close to $4 trillion, coming back into our countrymoney that would never have been seen by you, or us, or me.  And just like I promised, we are confronting the unfair trade deals, and we are doing it like nobody has ever done, because our workers have been cheated, our companies have been cheated. Theyve stolen our wealth. Theyve brought it to other countries. As you know, I campaigned on that issue; its very close to my heart. I understand that issue better than anybody. I dont like it when they close a factory in your state, or a plant in your great state, and they move it to another country, and they make the product. They fire all of you, and they make the product, and they send it back into our country to be sold tax-free. I dont like that. I dont like that.  Were stopping it. Were stopping it. Because companies are moving back into our country like never before. You saw Chrysler announce, many are announcing. Japan has just announced two big companies are opening up in Michigan. We have a lot of companies coming back into our country. You havent seen that for 25 years. You havent seen it.  And we need workers. Because our unemployment rate at 3.8 percent is so lownow were taking people off the rolls, and were training people, but we need workers. And thats why I want people coming in. You know, people dont say this, and they certainly dont report it, but I want people coming into our country, but I want them coming in based on merit. I want the merit system, so they can help us.  Merit. The forgotten men and women of our country are forgotten no more. The Democrats are trying to find out, Who are these people that came out to vote? Where did they come from? Remember that? Where did they come from? Now they know, but theyre not going to the Democrats who are going so far left that nobody can believe it. They want open borders, and crime is okay. We want strong borders and we want no crime. Other than that, were very similar.  Other than that, were very similar. We also know that to be a strong nation, we have to have these strong borders. We cannot send our military to confront threats abroad, only to allow those same threats to cross our borders and to threaten us right here at home.  We help other countries protect their borders, and we dont protect our own borders. How about that? Were fighting every day to secure our borders, and were doing a great job. But were not given the tools. We have the worst laws in any country, ever, in history. We have catch-and release. You catch them, and now we say, Give me your name. Oh, goodcome back in a couple of years. Well take you to court. Youre released. This isthese arethis is the policy of fools. Catch-and-release. You catch even a criminal, you catch a bad person, you release the person as soon as you catch them. We have to end it. Despite that, were doing a great job. And ICEICE. Oh, ICE. Thank goodness for ICE.  Because we have some of the worst drug dealers, terrorists, criminals, and MS-13 gang membersand were either throwing them the hell in jail, or throwing them out of our country. And ICE goes up there, and they walk in like its another day in the office. Thank goodness for ICE.  The Democrats want to abandon ICE. They want to end ICE. Theyre too strong. I saw one of the people gettheyre too strong. Theyre too strong. I think MS-13 is strong, too.  The only thing they understand is strength. They dont understand anything but strength. And ICE is tough and smart, and they track them down, and they stop tremendous amounts of crime. And these are great people, and theyre not being treated properly.  And the fact is, instead of supporting our ICE officers, many of these Democrat politicians who are, really, disciples of a very low IQ person, Maxine Waters  and perhaps even worse, Nancy Pelosi  theyve launched vicious smears on the brave men and women who defend our communities. ICE officers work in dangerous conditions to protect our communities. And more than a third of ICE officers happen to be veterans themselves. About a third.  But Democratic politicians want to abolish ICE. They want to see open borders. Can you imagine? You know, every once in a while youll hear something, and usually you understand. Like in deal-making, you always have to understand the other side. When you hear open borders, when you hear get rid of ICE, when you hear some of the things that theyre proposing, its like you cant even understand it. Can you imagine, open borders, youd have millions of people pouring into our country. Millions and millions of people. Many people that you dont want in our country. But you would have millions of people pouring into our country. The crime would be unbelievable. And they want to get rid of the crime fighter, on top of everything else. Open the border and get rid of your crime fighters. You dont understand it. Nobody understands it. But I hope they keep it up, because were going to have a lot of fun in four months, and were going to have a lot of fun in 2020 running against that.  My administration will always stand proudly with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol. Theyre all heroes. And I want them to know that we thank them.  The Veterans of Foreign Wars understand better than anyone the importance of honoring those who put service to their fellow citizens before they put service to themselves. Thats both at home and abroad.  Here with us today is an extraordinary man who embodies the highest ideals of loyalty, patriotism, and service. He is a World War II veteran from the great state of Pennsylvania. Thats another one we won.  We won you guys by 20 points. Of course, Im not going to bring that up.  Im not going to tell that to George Brett. Twenty points. Many of you know him well; hes a lifelong member of the VFWSergeant Allen Jones. Wheres Allen? Wheres Allen?  Sergeant. Should we bring him up?  Come on, Allen. Come on.  Hes only 94, and the Secret Service made him walk about 100 yards out of his way, but thats okay.  Thats okay.   Yes.  Ive got time.  Yes.  Anytime you want. Anytime.  Thats right.  Oh, its beautiful. Thank you. Beautiful. Wow. Let me have(  and  ). I have a good one here, Allen. Thats so beautiful.  Going to stay up here. Okay, I got to do this. You got it. Thank you, Allen. Thank you.  I started to get a little bit concerned when he was finishing.  Well, this is a President that will have you in the Oval Office. So all of my people back there, theyre working it out already. Okay?  With honor. And we pay tribute not only to Allen, but to all of the heroes of the Greatest Generation.  And Id like to take this moment to recognize every World War II veteran in the audience today. Each of you is a national treasure. Its true.  We will never forget what you did for usever. From Bunker Hill to Belleau Wood, from Iwo Jima to the Inchon Landing, Americans have stormed into danger, stared down evil, and stood strong and tall for God, country, and freedom.  Anytime we see an American in uniform from the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, or Coast Guard, our hearts swell with pride. And anywhere those uniforms appear, our enemies tremble with fear because they know there is no greater force for peace and justice than the United States military.  To every single member of the VFW, because of your service, your courage, and your example, we are restoring the dreams and the glory, and the greatness of America. We will never give in. We will never give up. And we will never stop fighting for our country, our flag, and our freedom.  Together we will keep on fighting and we will keep on winning as one people, one family, and one nation under God. Thank you. God bless you.  God bless our veterans. And God bless the United States of America.  Thank you very much."
"Madam President, Mr. Secretary-General, world leaders, ambassadors, and distinguished delegates: One year ago, I stood before you for the first time in this grand hall. I addressed the threats facing our world, and I presented a vision to achieve a brighter future for all of humanity. Today, I stand before the United Nations General Assembly to share the extraordinary progress weve made. In less than two years, my administration has accomplished more than almost any administration in the history of our country. Americasso true.  Didnt expect that reaction, but thats okay. ( ) Americas economy is booming like never before. Since my election, weve added $10 trillion in wealth. The stock market is at an all-time high in history, and jobless claims are at a 50-year low. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment have all achieved their lowest levels ever recorded. Weve added more than 4 million new jobs, including half a million manufacturing jobs. We have passed the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. Weve started the construction of a major border wall, and we have greatly strengthened border security. We have secured record funding for our military$700 billion this year, and $716 billion next year. Our military will soon be more powerful than it has ever been before. In other words, the United States is stronger, safer, and a richer country than it was when I assumed office less than two years ago. We are standing up for America and for the American people. And we are also standing up for the world. This is great news for our citizens and for peace-loving people everywhere. We believe that when nations respect the rights of their neighbors, and defend the interests of their people, they can better work together to secure the blessings of safety, prosperity, and peace. Each of us here today is the emissary of a distinct culture, a rich history, and a people bound together by ties of memory, tradition, and the values that make our homelands like nowhere else on Earth. That is why America will always choose independence and cooperation over global governance, control, and domination. I honor the right of every nation in this room to pursue its own customs, beliefs, and traditions. The United States will not tell you how to live or work or worship. We only ask that you honor our sovereignty in return. From Warsaw to Brussels, to Tokyo to Singapore, it has been my highest honor to represent the United States abroad. I have forged close relationships and friendships and strong partnerships with the leaders of many nations in this room, and our approach has already yielded incredible change. With support from many countries here today, we have engaged with North Korea to replace the specter of conflict with a bold and new push for peace. In June, I traveled to Singapore to meet face to face with North Koreas leader, Chairman Kim Jong Un. We had highly productive conversations and meetings, and we agreed that it was in both countries interest to pursue the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Since that meeting, we have already seen a number of encouraging measures that few could have imagined only a short time ago. The missiles and rockets are no longer flying in every direction. Nuclear testing has stopped. Some military facilities are already being dismantled. Our hostages have been released. And as promised, the remains of our fallen heroes are being returned home to lay at rest in American soil. I would like to thank Chairman Kim for his courage and for the steps he has taken, though much work remains to be done. The sanctions will stay in place until denuclearization occurs. I also want to thank the many member states who helped us reach this momenta moment that is actually far greater than people would understand; far greaterbut for also their support and the critical support that we will all need going forward. A special thanks to President Moon of South Korea, Prime Minister Abe of Japan, and President Xi of China. In the Middle East, our new approach is also yielding great strides and very historic change. Following my trip to Saudi Arabia last year, the Gulf countries opened a new center to target terrorist financing. They are enforcing new sanctions, working with us to identify and track terrorist networks, and taking more responsibility for fighting terrorism and extremism in their own region. The UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar have pledged billions of dollars to aid the people of Syria and Yemen. And they are pursuing multiple avenues to ending Yemens horrible, horrific civil war. Ultimately, it is up to the nations of the region to decide what kind of future they want for themselves and their children. For that reason, the United States is working with the Gulf Cooperation Council, Jordan, and Egypt to establish a regional strategic alliance so that Middle Eastern nations can advance prosperity, stability, and security across their home region. Thanks to the United States military and our partnership with many of your nations, I am pleased to report that the bloodthirsty killers known as ISIS have been driven out from the territory they once held in Iraq and Syria. We will continue to work with friends and allies to deny radical Islamic terrorists any funding, territory or support, or any means of infiltrating our borders. The ongoing tragedy in Syria is heartbreaking. Our shared goals must be the de-escalation of military conflict, along with a political solution that honors the will of the Syrian people. In this vein, we urge the United Nations-led peace process be reinvigorated. But, rest assured, the United States will respond if chemical weapons are deployed by the Assad regime. I commend the people of Jordan and other neighboring countries for hosting refugees from this very brutal civil war. As we see in Jordan, the most compassionate policy is to place refugees as close to their homes as possible to ease their eventual return to be part of the rebuilding process. This approach also stretches finite resources to help far more people, increasing the impact of every dollar spent. Every solution to the humanitarian crisis in Syria must also include a strategy to address the brutal regime that has fueled and financed it: the corrupt dictatorship in Iran. Irans leaders sow chaos, death, and destruction. They do not respect their neighbors or borders, or the sovereign rights of nations. Instead, Irans leaders plunder the nations resources to enrich themselves and to spread mayhem across the Middle East and far beyond. The Iranian people are rightly outraged that their leaders have embezzled billions of dollars from Irans treasury, seized valuable portions of the economy, and looted the peoples religious endowments, all to line their own pockets and send their proxies to wage war. Not good. Irans neighbors have paid a heavy toll for the regions  agenda of aggression and expansion. That is why so many countries in the Middle East strongly supported my decision to withdraw the United States from the horrible 2015 Iran Nuclear Deal and re-impose nuclear sanctions. The Iran deal was a windfall for Irans leaders. In the years since the deal was reached, Irans military budget grew nearly 40 percent. The dictatorship used the funds to build nuclear-capable missiles, increase internal repression, finance terrorism, and fund havoc and s  in Syria and Yemen. The United States has launched a campaign of economic pressure to deny the regime the funds it needs to advance its bloody agenda. Last month, we began re-imposing hard-hitting nuclear sanctions that had been lifted under the Iran deal. Additional sanctions will resume November 5th, and more will follow. And were working with countries that import Iranian crude oil to cut their purchases substantially. We cannot allow the worlds leading sponsor of terrorism to possess the planets most dangerous weapons. We cannot allow a regime that chants Death to America, and that threatens Israel with annihilation, to possess the means to deliver a nuclear warhead to any city on Earth. Just cant do it. We ask all nations to isolate Irans regime as long as its aggression continues. And we ask all nations to support Irans people as they struggle to reclaim their religious and righteous destiny. This year, we also took another significant step forward in the Middle East. In recognition of every sovereign state to determine its own capital, I moved the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. The United States is committed to a future of peace and stability in the region, including peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. That aim is advanced, not harmed, by acknowledging the obvious facts. Americas policy of principled realism means we will not be held hostage to old dogmas, discredited ideologies, and so-called experts who have been proven wrong over the years, time and time again. This is true not only in matters of peace, but in matters of prosperity. We believe that trade must be fair and reciprocal. The United States will not be taken advantage of any longer. For decades, the United States opened its economythe largest, by far, on Earthwith few conditions. We allowed foreign goods from all over the world to flow freely across our borders. Yet, other countries did not grant us fair and reciprocal access to their markets in return. Even worse, some countries abused their openness to dump their products, subsidize their goods, target our industries, and manipulate their currencies to gain unfair advantage over our country. As a result, our trade deficit ballooned to nearly $800 billion a year. For this reason, we are systematically renegotiating broken and bad trade deals. Last month, we announced a groundbreaking U.S.-Mexico trade agreement. And just yesterday, I stood with President Moon to announce the successful completion of the brand new U.S.-Korea trade deal. And this is just the beginning. Many nations in this hall will agree that the world trading system is in dire need of change. For example, countries were admitted to the World Trade Organization that violate every single principle on which the organization is based. While the United States and many other nations play by the rules, these countries use government-run industrial planning and state-owned enterprises to rig the system in their favor. They engage in relentless product dumping, forced technology transfer, and the theft of intellectual property. The United States lost over 3 million manufacturing jobs, nearly a quarter of all steel jobs, and 60,000 factories after China joined the WTO. And we have racked up $13 trillion in trade deficits over the last two decades. But those days are over. We will no longer tolerate such abuse. We will not allow our workers to be victimized, our companies to be cheated, and our wealth to be plundered and transferred. America will never apologize for protecting its citizens. The United States has just announced tariffs on another $200 billion in Chinese-made goods for a total, so far, of $250 billion. I have great respect and affection for my friend, President Xi, but I have made clear our trade imbalance is just not acceptable. Chinas market distortions and the way they deal cannot be tolerated. As my administration has demonstrated, America will always act in our national interest. I spoke before this body last year and warned that the U.N. Human Rights Council had become a grave embarrassment to this institution, shielding egregious human rights abusers while bashing America and its many friends. Our Ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, laid out a clear agenda for reform, but despite reported and repeated warnings, no action at all was taken. So the United States took the only responsible course: We withdrew from the Human Rights Council, and we will not return until real reform is enacted. For similar reasons, the United States will provide no support in recognition to the International Criminal Court. As far as America is concerned, the ICC has no jurisdiction, no legitimacy, and no authority. The ICC claims near-universal jurisdiction over the citizens of every country, violating all principles of justice, fairness, and due process. We will never surrender Americas sovereignty to an unelected, unaccountable, global bureaucracy. America is governed by Americans. We reject the ideology of globalism, and we embrace the doctrine of patriotism. Around the world, responsible nations must defend against threats to sovereignty not just from global governance, but also from other, new forms of coercion and domination. In America, we believe strongly in energy security for ourselves and for our allies. We have become the largest energy producer anywhere on the face of the Earth. The United States stands ready to export our abundant, affordable supply of oil, clean coal, and natural gas. OPEC and OPEC nations, are, as usual, ripping off the rest of the world, and I dont like it. Nobody should like it. We defend many of these nations for nothing, and then they take advantage of us by giving us high oil prices. Not good. We want them to stop raising prices, we want them to start lowering prices, and they must contribute substantially to military protection from now on. We are not going to put up with itthese horrible pricesmuch longer. Reliance on a single foreign supplier can leave a nation vulnerable to extortion and intimidation. That is why we congratulate European states, such as Poland, for leading the construction of a Baltic pipeline so that nations are not dependent on Russia to meet their energy needs. Germany will become totally dependent on Russian energy if it does not immediately change course. Here in the Western Hemisphere, we are committed to maintaining our independence from the encroachment of expansionist foreign powers. It has been the formal policy of our country since President Monroe that we reject the interference of foreign nations in this hemisphere and in our own affairs. The United States has recently strengthened our laws to better screen foreign investments in our country for national security threats, and we welcome cooperation with countries in this region and around the world that wish to do the same. You need to do it for your own protection. The United States is also working with partners in Latin America to confront threats to sovereignty from uncontrolled migration. Tolerance for human struggling and human smuggling and trafficking is not humane. Its a horrible thing thats going on, at levels that nobody has ever seen before. Its very, very cruel. Illegal immigration funds criminal networks, ruthless gangs, and the flow of deadly drugs. Illegal immigration exploits vulnerable populations, hurts hardworking citizens, and has produced a vicious cycle of crime, violence, and poverty. Only by upholding national borders, destroying criminal gangs, can we break this cycle and establish a real foundation for prosperity. We recognize the right of every nation in this room to set its own immigration policy in accordance with its national interests, just as we ask other countries to respect our own right to do the samewhich we are doing. That is one reason the United States will not participate in the new Global Compact on Migration. Migration should not be governed by an international body unaccountable to our own citizens. Ultimately, the only long-term solution to the migration crisis is to help people build more hopeful futures in their home countries. Make their countries great again. Currently, we are witnessing a human tragedy, as an example, in Venezuela. More than 2 million people have fled the anguish inflicted by the socialist Maduro regime and its Cuban sponsors. Not long ago, Venezuela was one of the richest countries on Earth. Today, socialism has bankrupted the oil-rich nation and driven its people into abject poverty. Virtually everywhere socialism or communism has been tried, it has produced suffering, corruption, and decay. Socialisms thirst for power leads to expansion, incursion, and oppression. All nations of the world should resist socialism and the misery that it brings to everyone. In that spirit, we ask the nations gathered here to join us in calling for the restoration of democracy in Venezuela. Today, we are announcing additional sanctions against the repressive regime, targeting Maduros inner circle and close advisors. We are grateful for all the work the United Nations does around the world to help people build better lives for themselves and their families. The United States is the worlds largest giver in the world, by far, of foreign aid. But few give anything to us. That is why we are taking a hard look at U.S. foreign assistance. That will be headed up by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. We will examine what is working, what is not working, and whether the countries who receive our dollars and our protection also have our interests at heart. Moving forward, we are only going to give foreign aid to those who respect us and, frankly, are our friends. And we expect other countries to pay their fair share for the cost of their defense. The United States is committed to making the United Nations more effective and accountable. I have said many times that the United Nations has unlimited potential. As part of our reform effort, I have told our negotiators that the United States will not pay more than 25 percent of the U.N. peacekeeping budget. This will encourage other countries to step up, get involved, and also share in this very large burden. And we are working to shift more of our funding from assessed contributions to voluntary so that we can target American resources to the programs with the best record of success. Only when each of us does our part and contributes our share can we realize the U.N.s highest aspirations. We must pursue peace without fear, hope without despair, and security without apology. Looking around this hall where so much history has transpired, we think of the many before us who have come here to address the challenges of their nations and of their times. And our thoughts turn to the same question that ran through all their speeches and resolutions, through every word and every hope. It is the question of what kind of world will we leave for our children and what kind of nations they will inherit. The dreams that fill this hall today are as diverse as the people who have stood at this podium, and as varied as the countries represented right here in this body are. It really is something. It really is great, great history. There is India, a free society over a billion people, successfully lifting countless millions out of poverty and into the middle class. There is Saudi Arabia, where King Salman and the Crown Prince are pursuing bold new reforms. There is Israel, proudly celebrating its 70th anniversary as a thriving democracy in the Holy Land. In Poland, a great people are standing up for their independence, their security, and their sovereignty. Many countries are pursuing their own unique visions, building their own hopeful futures, and chasing their own wonderful dreams of destiny, of legacy, and of a home. The whole world is richer, humanity is better, because of this beautiful constellation of nations, each very special, each very unique, and each shining brightly in its part of the world. In each one, we see awesome promise of a people bound together by a shared past and working toward a common future. As for Americans, we know what kind of future we want for ourselves. We know what kind of a nation America must always be. In America, we believe in the majesty of freedom and the dignity of the individual. We believe in self-government and the rule of law. And we prize the culture that sustains our liberty - a culture built on strong families, deep faith, and fierce independence. We celebrate our heroes, we treasure our traditions, and above all, we love our country. Inside everyone in this great chamber today, and everyone listening all around the globe, there is the heart of a patriot that feels the same powerful love for your nation, the same intense loyalty to your homeland. The passion that burns in the hearts of patriots and the souls of nations has inspired reform and revolution, sacrifice and selflessness, scientific breakthroughs, and magnificent works of art. Our task is not to erase it, but to embrace it. To build with it. To draw on its ancient wisdom. And to find within it the will to make our nations greater, our regions safer, and the world better. To unleash this incredible potential in our people, we must defend the foundations that make it all possible. Sovereign and independent nations are the only vehicle where freedom has ever survived, democracy has ever endured, or peace has ever prospered. And so we must protect our sovereignty and our cherished independence above all. When we do, we will find new avenues for cooperation unfolding before us. We will find new passion for peacemaking rising within us. We will find new purpose, new resolve, and new spirit flourishing all around us, and making this a more beautiful world in which to live. So together, let us choose a future of patriotism, prosperity, and pride. Let us choose peace and freedom over domination and defeat. And let us come here to this place to stand for our people and their nations, forever strong, forever sovereign, forever just, and forever thankful for the grace and the goodness and the glory of God. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the nations of the world. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Just a short time ago, I had the honor of presiding over the swearing-in of five new great American citizens. It was a beautiful ceremony and a moving reminder of our nations proud history of welcoming legal immigrants from all over the world into our national family. I told them that the beauty and majesty of citizenship is that it draws no distinctions of race, or class, or faith, or gender or background. All Americans, whether first generation or tenth generation, are bound together in love and loyalty, friendship and affection. We are all equal. We are one team, and one people, proudly saluting one great American flag. We believe in a safe and lawful system of immigration, one that upholds our laws, our traditions, and our most cherished values. Unfortunately, our immigration system has been badly broken for a very long time. Over the decades, many Presidents and many lawmakers have come and gone, and no real progress has been made on immigration. We are now living with the consequencesand they are tragicbrought about by decades of political stalemate, partisan gridlock, and national neglect. There is a humanitarian and security crisis on our southern border that requires urgent action. Thousands of children are being exploited by ruthless coyotes and vicious cartels and gangs. One in three women is sexually assaulted on the dangerous journey north. In fact, many loving mothers give their young daughters birth control pills for the long journey up to the United States because they know they may be raped or sexually accosted or assaulted. Nearly 50 migrants a day are being referred for urgent medical care. Vast quantities of lethal narcotics are flooding through our border and into our communities, including meth, cocaine, heroin, and fentanyl. Drugs kill 78,000 Americans a year and cost our society in excess of $700 billion. Heroin alone kills 300 Americans a week, 90 percent of which comes across our southern border. We can stop heroin. Illegal immigration reduces wages and strains public services. The lack of border control provides a gatewayand a very wide and open gatewayfor criminals and gang members to enter the United States, including the criminal aliens who murdered a brave California police officer only a day after Christmas. Ive gotten to know and love Angel moms, dads, and family who lost loved ones to people illegally in our country. I want this to end. Its got to end now. These are not talking points. These are the heartbreaking realities that are hurting innocent, precious human beings every single day on both sides of the border. As a candidate for President, I promised I would fix this crisis, and I intend to keep that promise one way or the other. Our immigration system should be the subject of pride, not a source of shame, as it is all over the world. Our immigration system should be the envy of the world, not a symbol of disunity and dysfunction. The good news is, these problems can all be solved but only if we have the political courage to do what is just and what is right. Both sides in Washington must simply come together, listen to each other, put down their armor, build trust, reach across the aisle, and find solutions. It is time to reclaim our future from the extreme voices who fear compromise and demand open borders, which means drugs pouring in, human trafficking, and a lot of crime. That is why I am here today, to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward to end the government shutdown and solve the crisis on the southern border. If we are successful in this effort, we will then have the best chance in a very long time at real, bipartisan immigration reform. And it wont stop here. It will keep going until we do it all. The proposal I will outline today is based on, first and foremost, on input from our border agents and homeland security professionalsand professionals they are. They know what theyre doing. It is a compassionate response to the ongoing tragedy on our southern border. In recent weeks, we have met with large numbers of Democrat lawmakers to hear their ideas and suggestions. By incorporating the priorities of rank-and-file Democrats in our plan, we hope they will offer their enthusiastic support. And I think many will. This is a commonsense compromise both parties should embrace. The radical left can never control our borders. I will never let it happen. Walls are not immoral. In fact, they are the opposite of immoral because they will save many lives and stop drugs from pouring into our country. Our plan includes the following: $800 million in urgent humanitarian assistance; $805 million for drug detection technology to help secure our ports of entry; an additional 2,750 border agents and law enforcement professionals; 75 new immigration judge teams to reduce the court backlog of, believe it or not, almost 900,000 cases. However, the whole concept of having lengthy trials for anyone who sets one foot in our country unlawfully must be changed by Congress. It is unsustainable. It is ridiculous. Few places in the world would even consider such an impossible nightmare. Our plan includes critical measures to protect migrant children from exploitation and abuse. This includes a new system to allow Central American minors to apply for asylum in their home countries, and reform to promote family reunification for unaccompanied children, thousands of whom wind up on our border doorstep. To physically secure our border, the plan includes $5.7 billion for a strategic deployment of physical barriers, or a wall. This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high-priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water. We already have many miles of barrier, including 115 miles that we are currently building or under contract.  It will be done quickly.  Our request will add another 230 miles this year in the areas our border agents most urgently need.  It will have an unbelievable impact. If we build a powerful and fully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border, the crime rate and drug problem in our country would be quickly and greatly reduced.  Some say it could be cut in half.  Because these criminals, drug smugglers, gangs, and traffickers do not stop at our border; they permeate throughout our country and they end up in some places where youd least expect them. They go all over our country. A steel barrier will help us stop illegal immigration while safely directing commerce to our lawful ports of entry. Many of these security ideas have been proposed by Democrats themselves, and all of them have been supported by Democrats in the past, including a physical barrier, wall, or fence. Furthermore, in order to build the trust and goodwill necessary to begin real immigration reform, there are two more elements to my plan. Number one is three years of legislative relief for 700,000 DACA recipients brought here unlawfully by their parents at a young age many years ago. This extension will give them access to work permits, Social Security numbers, and protection from deportation, most importantly. Secondly, our proposal provides a three-year extension of Temporary Protected Status, or TPS. This means that 300,000 immigrants whose protected status is facing expiration will now have three more years of certainty so that Congress can work on a larger immigration deal, which everybody wantsRepublicans and Democrats. And our farmers and vineyards wont be affected because lawful and regulated entry into our country will be easy and consistent. That is our plan: border security, DACA, TPS, and many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable, and common sense, with lots of compromise. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has pledged to bring this bill to a vote this week in the United States Senate. Our proposal is not intended to solve all of our immigration challenges. This plan solves the immediate crisisand it is a horrible crisis. It is a humanitarian crisis like we rarely see in our country. And it provides humanitarian relief, delivers real border security, and immediately reopens our federal government. If we are successful in this effort, then we can start the border  project of remaking our immigration system for the 21st century. Once the government is open and we have made a down payment on border security, and immigration reform starts to happen, I plan to convene weekly bipartisan meetings at the White House so we can do a finished product, a great producta product that we can all be proud of, having to do with that elusive immigration problem. Whatever we do, I can promise you this: I will never forget that my first duty, and ultimate loyalty, is to you, the American people. Any reforms we make to our immigration system will be designed to improve your lives, make your communities safer, and make our nation more prosperous and secure for generations to come. Thank you and God bless America.  Thank you."
"Thank you very much, everybody.  Before we begin, Id like to just say that we have a large team of very talented people in China.  Weve had a negotiation going on for about two days.  Its going extremely well.  Who knows what that means, because it only matters if we get it done.  But were very much working very closely with China and President Xi, who I respect a lot.  Very good relationship that we have.  And were a lot closer than we ever were in this country with having a real trade deal. Were covering everything  all of the points that people have been talking about for years that said couldnt be done, whether it was theft or anything.  Anything.  The unfairness.  Weve been losing, on average, $375 billion a year with China.  A lot of people think its $506 billion.  Some people think its much more than that.  Were going to be leveling the playing field. The tariffs are hurting China very badly.  They dont want them.  And frankly, if we can make the deal, itd be my honor to remove them.  But otherwise, were having many billions of dollars pouring into our Treasury.  Weve never had that before with China.  Its been very much of a one-way street. So, thats happening.  And the relationship with China is very good, but I think they finally respect our country.  They havent respected us for a long time.  Not for a long time. The UK and the U.S., as you probably have been seeing and hearing, were agreeing to go forward and preserve our trade agreement.  You know all of the situation with respect to Brexit, and the complexity and the problems.  But we have a very good trading relationship with the UK, and thats just been strengthened further. So with the UK, were continuing our trade, and we are going to actually be increasing it very substantially as time goes by.  We expect that the UK will be very, very substantially increased as it relates to trade with the United States.  The relationship there, also, is very good. We have a lot of great announcements having to do with Syria and our success with the eradication of the caliphate.  And that will be announced over the next 24 hours.  And many other things.  A lot of positive things are going on. Were working on a summit.  And you know all about the summit.  It will be in Vietnam  Hanoi.  And we will  well be meeting in Hanoi.  Well be meeting in Hanoi.  I think a lot of you will be going, I suspect.  And I hope we have the same good luck as we had in the first summit.  A lot was done in the first summit.  No more rockets going up.  No more missiles going up.  No more testing of nuclear.  Get back our remains, the remains of our great heroes from the Korean War.  And we got back our hostages. But we hope were going to be very much equally as successful.  Im in no rush for speed.  We just dont want testing.  The sanctions, as you know, remain.  Everything is remaining.  China has been helping us, and Russia has been helping us.  And South Korea, I think you can say, has been  weve been working very closely with South Korea, with Japan. But China, Russia, on the border, have really been at least partially living up to what theyre supposed to be doing.  And thats okay  as per the United Nations. So we will have a meeting on the 27th and 28th of February, and I think that will be a very successful one.  I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim.  We have also established a very good relationship, which has never happened between him or his family and the United States.  They have really taken advantage of the United States.  Billions of dollars has been paid to them.  And we wont let that happen. But we think that North Korea and Chairman Kim have a tremendous potential as an economic force, economic power.  Their location between South Korea and then Russia and China  right smack in the middle  is phenomenal. And we think that they have a great chance for tremendous economic prosperity in the future.  So I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim in Vietnam. Today, Im announcing several critical actions that my administration has taken to confront a problem that we have right here at home.  We fight wars that are 6,000 miles away; wars that we should have never been in, in many cases.  But we dont control our own border. So were going to confront the national security crisis on our southern border.  And were going to do it one way or the other  we have to do it  not because it was a campaign promise, which it is.  It was one of many, by the way; not my only one.  Were rebuilding the military, our economy is thriving like never before. You look at other economies  theyre doing terribly, and were doing phenomenally.  The market is up tremendously today, not that thats anything, but, you know  because Ill go back in and theyll say, Oh, the market just went down.  But the market is getting close to the new highs that we created.  We have all the records.  We have every record.  But were getting close to that point again where well create new records. So our country is doing very well, economically.  And weve done a lot.  But one of the things I said I have to do and I want to do is border security, because we have tremendous amounts of drugs flowing into our country, much of it coming from the southern border.  When you look and when you listen to politicians  in particular, certain Democrats  they say it all comes through the port of entry.  Its wrong.  Its wrong.  Its just a lie.  Its all a lie. They say walls dont work.  Walls work 100 percent.  Whether its El Paso  I really was smiling, because the other night I was in El Paso  we had a tremendous crowd, and  tremendous crowd.  And I asked the people  many of whom were from El Paso, but they came from all over Texas.  And I asked them.  I said, Let me ask you, as a crowd: When the wall went up, was it better?  You were there, some of you.  It was not only better; it was like 100 percent better.  You know what they did. But thats only one example.  There are so many examples.  In El Paso, they have close to 2,000 murders right on the other side of the wall.  And they had 23 murders.  Its a lot of murders, but its not close to 2,000 murders right on the other side of the wall, in Mexico. So everyone knows that walls work.  And there are better examples than El Paso, frankly.  You just take a look.  Almost everywhere.  Take a look at Israel.  Theyre building another wall.  Their wall is 99.9 percent effective, they told me  99.9 percent.  Thats what it would be with us, too. The only weakness is they go to a wall and then they go around the wall.  They go around the wall and in.  Okay?  Thats what it is.  Its very simple.  And a big majority of the big drugs  the big drug loads  dont go through ports of entry.  They cant go through ports of entry.  You cant take big loads because you have people  we have some very capable people; the Border Patrol, law enforcement  looking. You cant take human traffic  women and girls  you cant take them through ports of entry.  You cant have them tied up in the backseat of a car or a truck or a van.  They open the door.  They look.  They cant see three women with tape on their mouth or three women whose hands are tied. They go through areas where you have no wall.  Everybody knows that.  Nancy knows it.  Chuck knows it.  They all know it.  Its all a big lie.  Its a big con game. You dont have to be very smart to know: You put up a barrier, the people come in, and thats it.  They cant do anything unless they walk left or right, and they find an area where theres no barrier, and they come into the United States.  Welcome. Weve detained more people.  Our border agents are doing such incredible work.  Our military has been incredible.  We put up barbed wire on top of certain old walls that were there.  We fixed the wall and we loaded it up with barbed wire.  Its very successful. But our military has been fantastic, and I want to thank them.  And its very necessary.  Weve broken up two caravans that are on their way.  They just are breaking.  Theyre in the process of breaking up.  We have another one that we havent been able to break up yet. Weve been actually working with Mexico much better than ever before.  I want to thank the President.  I want to thank Mexico.  They have their own problems.  They have the largest number of murders that theyve ever had in their history  almost 40,000 murders.  Forty thousand.  And they got to straighten that out, and I think they will. But I just want to thank the President, because hes been helping us with these monstrous caravans that have been coming up.  We had one that it was up to over 15,000 people.  Its largely broken up.  Others have gotten through.  And, in Tijuana, you have a lot of people staying there.  If we didnt have the wall up, and if we didnt have the wall secured and strengthened, they would have walked right through; theyd be welcomed to the United States. One of the things wed save tremendous  just a tremendous amount on would be sending the military.  If we had a wall, we dont need the military because wed have a wall. So Im going to be signing a national emergency.  And its been signed many times before.  Its been signed by other Presidents from 1977 or so.  It gave the Presidents the power. Theres rarely been a problem.  They sign it; nobody cares.  I guess they werent very exciting.  But nobody cares.  They sign it for far less important things, in some cases, in many cases.  Were talking about an invasion of our country with drugs, with human traffickers, with all types of criminals and gangs. We have some of the greatest people I know.  Theyve been with me from the beginning of my campaign  almost from the first week.  The Angel Moms.  Unfortunately, we have new Angel Moms.  One incredible woman just showed me her daughter who  were talking about killed, in the year of 18.  I said, I havent seen you before.  She said, No, Im new.  I said, Thats too bad.  Its too bad.  Its so sad. Stand up, just for a second.  Show how beautiful your girl was.  Thank you. I have such respect for these people.  Angel Moms, Angel Dads, Angel Families.  I have great respect for these people.  These are great people.  These are great people.  Theyre fighting for their children that have been killed by people that were illegally in this country. And the press doesnt cover them; they dont want to, incredibly.  And theyre not treated the way they should be.  Theyre fighting for other people because they dont want what happened to their children or husband or anybody. We have one young lady whose husband  please, stand up.  Your husband was just killed in Maryland.  Incredible man.  Just killed.  Beautiful children  wont be seeing their father again. These are brave people.  These are people that  they dont have to be here.  They dont have to be doing this.  Theyre doing it for other people.  So I just want to thank all of you for being here, okay?  I really do.  I want to thank you.  Incredible people. Last year, 70,000 Americans were killed, at least  I think the number is ridiculously low  by drugs, including meth and heroin and cocaine, fentanyl.  And one of the things that I did with President Xi in China, when I met him in Argentina at a summit  before I even started talking about the trade  it was a trade meeting.  It went very well, but before I talked about trade, I talked about something more important. I said, Listen, we have tremendous amounts of fentanyl coming into our country.  It kills tens of thousands of people  I think far more than anybody registers.  And Id love you to declare it a lethal drug and put it on your criminal list.  And their criminal list is much tougher than our criminal list.  Their criminal list  a drug dealer gets a thing called the death penalty.  Our criminal list, a drug dealer gets a thing called, How about a fine? And when I asked President Xi, I said, Do you have a drug problem?  No, no, no.  I said, You have 1.4 billion people.  What do you mean you have no drug problem?  No, we dont have a drug problem.  I said, Why? Death penalty.  We give death penalty to people that sell drugs.  End of problem. What do we do?  We set up blue ribbon committees.  Lovely men and women  they sit around a table, they have lunch, they eat, they dine, and they waste a lot of time.  So if we want to get smart, we can get smart.  You can end the drug problem.  You can end it a lot faster than you think. But President Xi has agreed to put fentanyl on his list of deadly, deadly drugs.  And its a criminal penalty.  And the penalty is death.  So thats, frankly, one of the things Im most excited about in our trade deal, if you want to know the truth.  I think maybe theres no more important point. Were going to make billions of dollars with this trade deal.  Its going to be great for our country and great for China, I hope.  Their market is down close to 40 percent.  Our market is way up.  Weve picked up, since my election, trillions of dollars of worth.  Trillions.  Many trillions.  And China has lost trillions of dollars.  But I want it to be good for China and I want it to be good for the United States.  So well see what happens. China is coming here next week, by the way.  Theyre coming home, the traders.  And then China is coming here next week.  And then Ill be meeting with President Xi at some point after that to maybe  for some remaining deals.  Well make them directly, one-on-one, ourselves. So, were going to be signing today, and registering, national emergency.  And its a great thing to do because we have an invasion of drugs, invasion of gangs, invasion of people, and its unacceptable. And by signing the national emergency  something signed many times by other Presidents  many, many times.  President Obama  in fact, we may be using one of the national emergencies that he signed, having to do with cartels.  Criminal cartels.  Its a very good emergency that he signed.  And were going to use parts of it in our dealings on cartels.  So that would be a second national emergency.  But, in that case, its already in place. And what we want  really want to do  is simple.  Its not like its complicated.  Its very simple: We want to stop drugs from coming into our country.  We want to stop criminals and gangs from coming into our country.  Nobody has done the job that weve ever done.  I mean, nobody has done the job that weve done on the border. And in a way, what I did by creating such a great economy  and if the opposing party got in, this economy would be down the tubes.  You know, I hear a lot of people say, Oh, well.  But maybe the previous administration  Let me tell you, the previous administration, it was heading south, and it was going fast.  We would have been down the tubes.  The regulations were strangling our country.  Unnecessary regulations. By creating such a strong economy  you just look at your televisions or see whats going on today; its through the roof.  What happens is more people want to come, so we have far more people trying to get into our country today than probably weve ever had before.  And weve done an incredible job in stopping them, but its a massive number of people. If we had the wall, it would be very easy.  We would make up for the cost of the wall just in the cost of the fact that I would be able to have fewer people.  We wouldnt need all of this incredible talent, some of whom are sitting in the first row.  You wouldnt need all of this incredible talent.  We would get  we would get thousands of law enforcement people, including Border Patrol.  You put them in different areas, you have them doing different things.  Law enforcement and Border Patrol. And I want to thank law enforcement, and I want to thank Border Patrol, and I want to thank ICE.  ICE is abused by the press and by the Democrats.  And, by the way, were going to be taking care of ICE.  You know, we talk about the new bill.  Were going to be taking care of ICE.  They wanted to get rid of ICE.  And the bill is just the opposite of that.  A lot of good things happened. So, thats the story.  We want to have a safe country.  I ran on a very simple slogan: Make America Great Again.  If youre going to have drugs pouring across the border, if youre going to have human traffickers pouring across the border in areas where we have no protection, in areas where we dont have a barrier, then very hard to make America great again. But weve done a fantastic job, but we havent been given the equipment.  We havent been given the walls.  And in the bill, by the way, they didnt even fight us on most of the stuff.  Ports of entry.  We have so much money, we dont know what to do with it.  I dont know what to do with all the money theyre giving us.  Its crazy. The only place they dont want to give as much money  $1,375,000,000.  Sounds like a lot, but its not so much, although were putting it to much better use than it used to be.  A lot of the past administrations, they had  it was easy to get, and they didnt build or they didnt do what they could have done.  It would have been great.  It would have been great to have done it earlier, but I was a little new to the job, a little new to the profession. And we had a little disappointment for the first year and a half.  People that should have stepped up did not step up.  They didnt step up, and they should have.  Would have been easy.  Not that easy, but it would have been a lot easier.  But some people didnt step up.  But were stepping up now. So we have a chance of getting close to $8 billion.  Whether its $8 billion or $2 billion or $1.5 billion, its going to build a lot of wall.  Were getting it done.  Were right now in construction with wall in some of the most important areas.  And we have renovated a tremendous amount of wall, making it just as good as new.  Thats where a lot of the money has been spent  on renovation.  In fact, we were restricted to renovating, which is okay.  But were going to run out of areas that we can renovate pretty soon.  So  and we need new wall. So I want to thank everybody for being here.  I want to thank, in particular, the Angel Moms and Dads for being here.  Thank you very much.  We have great respect for you.  The real country, our real country  the people that really love our country, they love you.  So I just want you to know that.  I know how hard you fight and I know how hard a fight youre having. I also want to thank all of the law enforcement for the job you do.  Believe me, our country loves you and they respect you greatly.  And were giving you a lot of surplus.  Were giving you surplus military equipment, which a lot of people didnt like giving, previous to this administration.  But hundreds of millions of dollars of surplus equipment.  And as we get it, as you know, we send it down.  And you have much better protection.  But I really appreciate you being here. So the order is signed.  And Ill sign the final papers as soon as I get into the Oval Office.  And we will have a national emergency, and then we will then be sued, and they will sue us in the Ninth Circuit, even though it shouldnt be there.  And we will possibly get a bad ruling, and then well get another bad ruling.  And then well end up in the Supreme Court, and hopefully well get a fair shake.  And well win in the Supreme Court, just like the ban.  They sued us in the Ninth Circuit, and we lost, and then we lost in the appellate division, and then we went to the Supreme Court, and we won. And it was very interesting, because yesterday they were talking about the ban.  Because we have a ban.  Its very helpful.  Madam Secretary, is that right?  Without the ban, wed have a bigger problem.  We have a ban on certain areas, certain countries, depending on whats going on in the world.  And we won. But somebody said, President Trump lost on the ban.  Well, he was right; I lost at the lower court.  He  he didnt say that we ultimately won at the United States Supreme Court.  They didnt want to say that.  They didnt want to go that far.  They were saying how I lost.  The person sitting right up here  Donald Trump lost on the ban.  Yeah, I did.  And then I lost a second time; you should have said that, too.  And then it went to the Supreme Court and I won.  Didnt want to take it that far.  But we won on the ban and we won on other things, too. The probably easiest one to win is on declaring a national emergency, because were declaring it for virtual invasion purposes: drugs, traffickers, and gangs.  And one of the things, just to finish: We have removed thousands of MS-13 gang monsters.  Thousands.  Theyre out of this country.  We take them out by the thousands.  And they are monsters. Okay.  Do you have any questions?  Yeah.  John, go ahead. Q    Mr. President  ( ).   Were you saying I was prepared? Q    With the microphone and prepared for questions.   Oh, I thought you meant I was prepared.  I couldnt believe you said that. Q    (Laughs.)  No, no, no.     People dont like saying that. Q    You were prepared for questions.   I am prepared.  Im always prepared. Q    A lot of the money that goes to count toward your $8 billion is money thats being reprogrammed in the DOD budget.  How can you guarantee to military families and to our men and women of the military that none of the money that would be reprogrammed to a wall will take away from other technology, other renovations, construction that is desperately needed in our military?   Yeah.  So, John, we had certain funds that are being used at the discretion of generals, at the discretion of the military.  Some of them havent been allocated yet, and some of the generals think that this is more important.  I was speaking to a couple of them.  They think this is far more important than what they were going to use it for.  I said, What were you going to use it for?  And I wont go into details, but it didnt sound too important to me. Plus, if you think, Ive gotten $700 billion for the military in year one, and then last year, $716 billion.  And were rebuilding our military, but we have a lot.  And under the previous administration, our military was depleted  badly depleted.  And they werent spending  I mean, they had a much less  they had a much smaller amount of money. So when I got $700 billion, and then $716 billion  and this year, its going to be pretty big too, because theres few things more important than our military.  You know, Im a big deficit believer and all of that, but before we really start focusing on certain things, we have to build up our military.  It was very badly depleted.  And were buying all new jetfighters, all new missiles, all new defensive equipment.  We have  well soon have a military like weve never had before. But when you think about the kind of numbers youre talking about  so you have $700 billion, $716 billion  when I need $2 billion, $3 billion of out that for a wall  which is a very important instrument, very important for the military because of the drugs that pour in.  And as you know, we have specific rules and regulations where they have drugs, and what you can do in order to stop drugs.  And thats part of it, too. Were taking a lot of money from that realm also.  But when you have that kind of money going into the military, this is a very, very small amount that were asking for. Yeah, go ahead.  Go ahead.  ABC.  Not NBC.  I like ABC a little bit more  not much.  Come on, ABC.  Not much.  Pretty close. Q    Mr. President, what do you say to those, including some of your Republican allies, who say that you are violating the Constitution with this move and setting a bad precedent that will be abused by possibly Democratic Presidents in the future?  Marco Rubio has made this point.   Well, not too many people.  Yeah.  Not too many people have said that.  But the courts will determine that. Look, I expect to be sued.  I shouldnt be sued.  Very rarely do you get sued when you do national emergency.  And then other people say, Oh, if you use it for this, now what are we using it for?  We got to get rid of drugs and gangs and people.  Its an invasion.  We have an invasion of drugs and criminals coming into our country that we stop, but its very hard to stop.  With a wall, it would be very easy. So I think that we will be very successful in court.  I think its clear.  And the people that say we create precedent  well, what do you have?  Fifty-six?  There are a lot of times  well, thats creating precedent.  And many of those are far less important than having a border.  If you dont have a border, you dont have a country. You know, we fight  before I got here  we fight all over the world to create borders for countries, but we dont create a border for our own country. So I think what will happen is, sadly, well be sued, and sadly, itll go through a process.  And, happily, well win  I think. Go ahead.  Lets go.  Lets hear it, NBC.  Come on. Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I just want to say, in the past, when President Obama tried to use executive action as it related to immigration, you said, The whole concept of executive order, its not the way the country is supposed to be run.  You said, Youre supposed to go through Congress and make a deal.  Will you concede that you were unable to make the deal that you had promised in the past, and that the deal youre ending up with now from Congress is less than what you could have had before a 35-day shutdown?   No.  Look, I went through Congress.  I made a deal.  I got almost $1.4 billion when I wasnt supposed to get one dollar  not one dollar.  Hes not going to get one dollar.  Well, I got $1.4 billion.  But Im not happy with it.  I also got billions and billions of dollars for other things  port of entries, lots of different things.  The purchase of drug equipment.  More than we were even requesting. In fact, the primary fight was on the wall.  Everything else, we have so much, as I said, I dont know what to do with it we have so much money.  But on the wall, they skimped. So I did  I was successful, in that sense, but I want to do it faster.  I could do the wall over a longer period of time.  I didnt need to do this.  But Id rather do it much faster.  And I dont have to do it for the election.  Ive already done a lot of wall, for the election  2020.  And the only reason were up here talking about this is because of the election, because they want to try and win an election, which it looks like theyre not going to be able to do.  And this is one of the ways they think they can possibly win, is by obstruction and a lot of other nonsense. And I think that I just want to get it done faster, thats all. Okay.  Yes, maam, go ahead. Q    Thank you, Mr. President.   Thank you. Q    Roberta Rampton from Reuters.  I wanted to ask about China.  Do you feel that enough progress has been made in the talks to head off the increase in tariffs scheduled for March 1?   Well, you know, youre talking to the wrong person, because I happen to like tariffs, okay?  I mean, were taking in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs from China.  And our steel industry now, as an example, we tax dumped steel  much of it comes from China  at 25 percent.  Our steel industry is so vibrant now again, theyre building plants all over the United States.  Its a beautiful thing.  And from a defensive standpoint, and from any standpoint, you need steel. You know, you can do without certain industries.  Our country cannot do without steel. So, I love tariffs, but I also love them to negotiate.  And right now, China is paying us billions of dollars a year in tariffs.  And I havent even started. Now, heres the thing: If we make a deal, they wont have to pay.  You know, itll be a whole different story.  They wont be paying that, but well have a fair deal.  There wont be intellectual property theft.  There wont be so many other things that have gone on.  And no other President has done this.  No other  you know, we didnt have a deal with China.  You had the WTO, one of the worst trade deals ever made  probably even worse than NAFTA, if thats believable, which, you know, hard to believe, because I think NAFTA was just a disaster.  It was a total disaster for our country. And now we made the USMCA, which is going to be a terrific  a great deal.  And, by the way, the USMCA, from Mexico  thats United States, Mexico, Canada  thats where the money is coming from, not directly but indirectly, for the wall.  And nobody wants to talk about that.  Because were saving billions and billions of dollars a year, if Congress approves that deal. Now, they might now want to approve a deal just because theyll say  one of the things Im thinking of doing  this has never been done before: No matter how good a deal I make with China, if they sell me Beijing for one dollar, if they give me 50 percent of their land and every ship that theyve built over the last two years  which is a lot  and they give them to me free, the Democrats will say, What a lousy deal; thats a terrible deal. Like, ZTE, I got a billion  more than a billion-dollar penalty in a short period of time.  And the Democrats said, Oh, shouldve gotten more.  When I made that deal, I said, This is incredible.  I just got  I got over a billion-dollar penalty, plus they had to change their board of directors.  They had to change their top management.  But they had to pay over a billion dollars.  I said, What a deal.  It took like a week.  And the Democrats didnt even know there was a problem with ZTE. Im the one that find them.  Im the one that settled it.  Over a billion dollars.  And President Xi called me and he said it would be important to him if they could get a deal.  And we made a deal  paid  like, in a short period of time. The Democrats went out and said, Oh, they shouldve done better.  So what Im thinking of doing is getting Chuck Schumer, getting Nancy Pelosi, having them bring two or three of their brilliant representatives.  And well all go down together, and what well do is well negotiate.  Ill put them in the room and let them speak up.  Because any deal I make with China, if its the great  its going to be better than any deal that anybody ever dreamt possible, or Im not going to have a deal.  Its a very simple. But any deal I make with China, Schumer is going to stand up and say, Oh, it shouldve been better.  It shouldve been better.  And you know what?  Thats not acceptable to me.  So Im thinking about doing something very different.  I dont think its ever been  I just dont want to be second-guessed.  But thats not even second-guess; thats called politics.  Sadly, Id probably do the same thing to them, okay? But any deal I make toward the end, Im going to bring Schumer  at least offer him  and Pelosi.  Im going to say, Please join me on the deal. And, by the way, I just see our new Attorney General is sitting in the front row.  Please stand up, Bill.    Such an easy job hes got.  Hes got the easiest job in government.  Thank you and congratulations.  That was a great vote yesterday.  Thank you very much. Q    Mr. President    Yes, go ahead.  Go ahead. Q    In your remarks, sir, you said that you were too new to politics, earlier in your administration, when you wouldve preferred that this be done.  Is that an admission of how you might be changing on the job?  And    Well, Im learning.  I mean, I am learning.  Dont forget, its not like Ive done this for  a senator came into my office and said, Sir, Ive been running for office for 30 years.  Ive won seven out of seven.  I did lose a couple when I was younger.  I said, Well, Ive won one out of one.  But, you know, I never did politics before.  Now I do politics.  I will tell you, Im very disappointed at certain people, a particular one, for not having pushed this faster. Q    Are you referring to Speaker Ryan, sir?   But Ive learned  who? Q    Speaker Ryan.   Lets not talk about it. Q    Okay.   What difference does it make?  But they should have pushed it faster.  They should have pushed it harder.  And they didnt.  They didnt. If they would have, it would have been a little bit better.  In the meantime, Ive built a lot of wall.  I have a lot of money, and Ive built a lot of wall.  But it wouldve been nice to have gotten done.  And I would like to see major immigration reform, and maybe thats something we can all work on, Bill, where we all get together and do major immigration reform  not just for a wall, for a barrier; for port of entry, for other things. We have a real problem.  We have catch-and-release.  You catch a criminal and you have to release them.  We have so many other things.  You have chain migration, where a bad person comes in, brings 22 or 23 or 35 of his family members  because he has his mother, his grandmother, his sister, his cousin, his uncle  theyre all in. You know what happened on the West Side Highway.  That young wise guy drove over and killed eight people and horribly injured  nobody talks about that  horribly  like, loss of legs and arms  going 60 miles an hour, he made a right turn into a park on the West Side Highway, along the Hudson River in New York.  He had many people brought in because he was in the United States.  Its called chain migration. And then you have the lottery.  Its a horror show, because when countries put people into the lottery, theyre not putting you in; theyre putting some very bad people in the lottery.  Its common sense.  If I ran a country, and if I have a lottery system of people going to the United States, Im not going to put in my stars; Im going to put in people I dont want.  The lottery system is a disaster.  Im stuck with it. Q    Mr. President, could you tell us    It should have  wait.  It should have never happened.  Okay. Q    Mr. President, could you tell us to what degree some of the outside conservative voices helped to shape your views on this national emergency?   I would talk about it.  Look, Sean Hannity has been a terrific, terrific supporter of what I do.  Not of me.  If I changed my views, he wouldnt be with me. Rush Limbaugh  I think hes a great guy.  Heres a guy who can speak for three hours without a phone call.  Try doing that sometime.  For three hours, he speaks.  Hes got one of the biggest audiences in the history of the world.  I mean, this guy is unbelievable.  Try speaking for three hours without taking calls.  Taking calls is easy.  Okay, Ill answer this one.  Ill answer that one.  He goes for three hours, and hes got an audience thats fantastic. Q    Should they be    Wait  Q    Should they be deciding policy, sir?    They dont decide policy.  In fact, if I went opposite  I mean, they have somebody  Ann Coulter.  I dont know her.  I hardly know her.  I havent spoken to her in way over a year.  But the press loves saying Ann Coulter.  Probably, if I did speak to her, shed be very nice.  I just dont have the time to speak to her.  I would speak to her; I have nothing against her. In fact, I like her for one reason: When they asked her, like right at the beginning, who was going to win the election, she said, Donald Trump.  And the two people that asked her that question smiled.  They said, Youre kidding, arent you?  Nope.  Donald Trump. So I like her, but shes off the reservation.  But anybody that knows her understands that.  But I havent spoken to her.  I dont follow her.  I dont talk to her.  But the press loves to bring up the name Ann Coulter.  And you know what?  I think shes fine.  I think shes good.  But I just dont speak to her. Laura has been great.  Laura Ingraham.  Tucker Carlson has been great.  I actually have a couple people on CNN that have been very good.  I have some on MSNBC.  The other day, they did a great report of me.  I said, Where the hell did that come from?  I think it was the only one in over a year. So the crazy thing is, I just had, as you know, Rasmussen  52 percent in the polls.  Its my highest poll number.  And people get what were doing.  They get it.  They really get it.  And Im honored by it. Yes.  Jim Acosta. Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I wonder if you could comment on this disconnect that we seem to have in this country, where you are presenting information about whats happening at the border  calling it an invasion, talking about women with duct tape over their mouths, and so on  and yet theres a lot of reporting out there, theres a lot of crime data out there, theres a lot of Department of Homeland Security data out there that shows border crossings at a near-record low    Thats because of us.  But its still  Q     that shows undocumented immigrants committing crime at lower levels    Excuse me.  Its still massive numbers of crossings. Q     that shows undocumented criminals  or undocumented immigrants committing crime at lower levels than native-born Americans.  What do you say    You dont really believe that stat, do you?  Do you really believe that stat? Q    What do you  well, let me ask you this    Take a look at our federal prisons. Q    I believe in facts and statistics and data, but    Okay?  Any more?  Quick, lets go. Q    Let me just ask you this: What do you say to your critics who say that you are creating a national emergency, that youre concocting a national emergency here in order to get your wall because you couldnt get it through other ways?   I ask the Angel Moms: What do you think?  Do you think Im creating something? Ask these incredible women, who lost their daughters and their sons.  Okay?   Because your question is a very political question because you have an agenda.  Youre CNN.  Youre fake news.  You have an agenda.  The numbers that you gave are wrong. Take a look at our federal prison population.  See how many of them, percentage-wise, are illegal aliens.  Just see.  Go ahead and see.  Its a fake question. Yes.  Go ahead. Q    Can I ask a follow-up? Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Just to follow up on that, unifying crime reporting statistics  numbers from your own Border Patrol, numbers from this government  show that the amount of illegal immigrants are down, there is not violence on the border, and that most    Theres not violence on the border? Q    Theres not as much violence as    Oh, really? Q    Let me  wait a minute.  Wait a minute.  Wait    You had 26 people killed  Q    Let me finish the question, please.  Let me finish the question, please.   Two weeks ago, 26 people were killed in a gunfight on the border  Q    I understand what youre  I understand what youre saying.    a mile away from where I went. Q    I was there.  I understand.  Thats not the question.  The question is    Do we forget about that? Q    No, Im not forgetting about it.  Im asking you to clarify where you get your numbers, because most of the DEA crime reporting statistics that we see show that drugs are coming across at the ports of entry, that illegal immigration is down, and the violence is down.   Okay. Q    So what do you base your facts on?   Okay, let me  come on, lets go.  Sort of  sort of  Q    And, secondly    No, no.  You get one.  You get one.  Ready? Q    Well, the second question is    Just sit down.  Wait.  Sit down.  Sit down. Q    Could you please answer it?   Sit down.  You get one question. I get my numbers from a lot of sources  like Homeland Security, primarily.  And the numbers that I have from Homeland Security are a disaster.  And you know what else is a disaster?  The numbers that come out of Homeland Security, Kirstjen, for the cost that we spend and the money that we lose because of illegal immigration: Billions and billions of dollars a month.  Billions and billions of dollars.  And its unnecessary. Q    So your own government stats are wrong, are you saying?   No, no.  I use many stats.  I use many stats. Q    Could you share those stats with us?   Let me tell you, you have stats that are far worse than the ones that I use.  But I use many stats, but I also use Homeland Security. All right, next question. Q    And do you  wait a minute.  Just a quick follow-up.   Go ahead.  No.  Go.  Please. Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I just want to bring you back to China for a second.  The White House put out a statement today talking about the March 1st deadline.  The other day, though, you gave the possibility that maybe this could slide.  Are you eyeing a possible extension  30 days, maybe 60 days?  What is the status there?  Or is March 1st the deadline?   Yeah.  Very good question.  So its a very big deal.  I guess you could say its like  must be the biggest deal ever made, if you think.  Trade with China, how big does that get?  Although if you look, the USCMA is right up there.  But its very complicated.  There are many, many points that were bringing up that nobody ever brought up or thought to bring up, but theyre very important, because we were on the wrong side of every one of them. There is a possibility that I will extend the date.  And if I do that, if I see that were close to a deal or the deal is going in the right direction, I would do that at the same tariffs that were charging now.  I would not increase the tariffs. Q    Let me also ask you about the debt, sir, because its gone from a shade under $20 trillion from when you took office.  Now its a shade over $22 trillion and heading in the wrong direction.  What are your plans to reverse it?   Well, its all about growth.  But before I  Q    (Inaudible.)    really focus on that  and you have to remember, President Obama put on more debt on this country than every President in the history of our country combined.  So when I took over, we had one man that put on more debt than every other President combined.  Combine them all.  So you cant be talking about that.  But I talk about it because I consider it very important. But first, I have to straighten out the military.  The military was depleted.  And if we dont have a strong military  that hopefully we wont have to use because its strong  if we dont have a strong military, you dont have to worry about debt; you have bigger problems.  So I have to straighten out the military.  Thats why I did the $700- and $716 billion.  But growth will straighten it out. You saw last month, the trade deficit went way down.  Everybody said, What happened?  Well, whats happening is growth.  But before I can focus too much on that, a very big expense is military.  And we have no choice but to straighten out our military. Q    Is growth the only answer, sir, or is ( )?   Yes, maam, go ahead. Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  On North Korea  back on the last summit, you guys came out with a pretty general agreement.   Yes. Q    I was wondering what you thought has, you know, been accomplished since the last summit.  And then    A lot. Q     are we going to be seeing anything concrete    A lot has been accomplished.  Okay. Q     on denuclearization.   Yeah.  A lot has been accomplished.  Were dealing with them, were talking to them. When I came into office, I met right there, in the Oval Office, with President Obama.  And I sat in those beautiful chairs and we talked.  It was supposed to be 15 minutes.  As you know, it ended up being many times longer than that. And I said, Whats the biggest problem?  He said, By far, North Korea.  And I dont want to speak for him, but I believe he would have gone to war with North Korea.  I think he was ready to go to war.  In fact, he told me he was so close to starting a big war with North Korea.  And where are we now?  No missiles.  No rockets.  No nuclear testing.  Weve learned a lot. But much more importantly than all of it  much more important  much, much more important that that is we have a great relationship.  I have a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un.  And Ive done a job.  In fact, I think I can say this: Prime Minister Abe of Japan gave me the most beautiful copy of a letter that he sent to the people who give out a thing called the Nobel Prize.  He said, I have nominated you or Respectfully, on behalf of Japan, I am asking them to give you the Nobel Peace Prize.  I said, Thank you.  Many other people feel that way too.  Ill probably never get it, but thats okay. They gave it to Obama.  He didnt even know what he got it for.  He was there for about 15 seconds and he got the Nobel Prize.  He said, Oh, what did I get it for?  With me, I probably will never get it. But if you look at Idlib Province in Syria, I stopped the s  of perhaps 3 million people.  Nobody talk about that.  They dont talk about that.  Russia and Iran and Syria were going to go in and perhaps destroy 3 million people in order to get 45,000 terrorists.  And I heard about it from a woman who had her parents and her brothers living there, and she said, Please, please.  And I thought  I said, No, it cant happen.  What are you talking about?  No, theyre going to get  And I come home, and I read a certain paper where the story was there that they were actually forming to go into  to really  to really do big destruction.  And I put out a statement that you better not do it. And in all fairness to Russia and Iran and Syria, they didnt attack.  Or theyre doing it surgically, at least.  Saved a lot of people.  We do a lot of good work.  This administration does a tremendous job, and we dont get credit for it.  But I think the people understand what we do. So Prime Minister Abe gave me  I mean, its the most beautiful five letter  five-page letter.  Nobel Prize.  He sent it to them.  You know why?  Because he had rocket ships and he had missiles flying over Japan.  And they had alarms going off; you know that.  Now, all of a sudden, they feel good; they feel safe.  I did that. And it was a very tough dialogue at the beginning.  Fire and fury.  Total annihilation.  My button is bigger than yours and my button works.  Remember that?  You dont remember that.  And people said, Trump is crazy.  And you know what it ended up being?  A very good relationship.  I like him a lot and he likes me a lot.  Nobody else would have done that. The Obama administration couldnt have done it.  Number one, they probably wouldnt have done it.  And number two, they didnt have the capability to do it. So I just want to thank everybody.  I want to wish our Attorney General great luck and speed, and enjoy your life.    Bill, good luck.  A tremendous reputation.  I know youll do a great job.  Thank you very much.  And thank you, everybody.  Thank you very much.  Thank you."
"Thank you very much.  Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, distinguished delegates, ambassadors, and world leaders: Seven decades of history have passed through this hall, in all of their richness and drama.  Where I stand, the world has heard from presidents and premiers at the height of the Cold War.  We have seen the foundation of nations.  We have seen the ringleaders of revolution.  We have beheld saints who inspired us with hope, rebels who stirred us with passion, and heroes who emboldened us with courage  all here to share plans, proposals, visions, and ideas on the worlds biggest stage. Like those who met us before, our time is one of great contests, high stakes, and clear choices.  The essential divide that runs all around the world and throughout history is once again thrown into stark relief.  It is the divide between those whose thirst for control deludes them into thinking they are destined to rule over others and those people and nations who want only to rule themselves. I have the immense privilege of addressing you today as the elected leader of a nation that prizes liberty, independence, and self-government above all.  The United States, after having spent over two and a half trillion dollars since my election to completely rebuild our great military, is also, by far, the worlds most powerful nation.  Hopefully, it will never have to use this power. Americans know that in a world where others seek conquest and domination, our nation must be strong in wealth, in might, and in spirit.  That is why the United States vigorously defends the traditions and customs that have made us who we are. Like my beloved country, each nation represented in this hall has a cherished history, culture, and heritage that is worth defending and celebrating, and which gives us our singular potential and strength. The free world must embrace its national foundations.  It must not attempt to erase them or replace them. Looking around and all over this large, magnificent planet, the truth is plain to see: If you want freedom, take pride in your country.  If you want democracy, hold on to your sovereignty.  And if you want peace, love your nation.  Wise leaders always put the good of their own people and their own country first. The future does not belong to globalists.  The future belongs to patriots.  The future belongs to sovereign and independent nations who protect their citizens, respect their neighbors, and honor the differences that make each country special and unique. It is why we in the United States have embarked on an exciting program of national renewal.  In everything we do, we are focused on empowering the dreams and aspirations of our citizens. Thanks to our pro-growth economic policies, our domestic unemployment rate reached its lowest level in over half a century.  Fueled by massive tax cuts and regulations cuts, jobs are being produced at a historic rate.  Six million Americans have been added to the employment rolls in under three years. Last month, African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment reached their lowest rates ever recorded. We are marshaling our nations vast energy abundance, and the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world.  Wages are rising, incomes are soaring, and 2.5 million Americans have been lifted out of poverty in less than three years. As we rebuild the unrivaled might of the American military, we are also revitalizing our alliances by making it very clear that all of our partners are expected to pay their fair share of the tremendous defense burden, which the United States has borne in the past. At the center of our vision for national renewal is an ambitious campaign to reform international trade.  For decades, the international trading system has been easily exploited by nations acting in very bad faith.  As jobs were outsourced, a small handful grew wealthy at the expense of the middle class. In America, the result was 4.2 million lost manufacturing jobs and $15 trillion in trade deficits over the last quarter century.  The United States is now taking that decisive action to end this grave economic injustice.  Our goal is simple: We want balanced trade that is both fair and reciprocal. We have worked closely with our partners in Mexico and Canada to replace NAFTA with the brand new and hopefully bipartisan U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement. Tomorrow, I will join Prime Minister Abe of Japan to continue our progress in finalizing a terrific new trade deal. As the United Kingdom makes preparations to exit the European Union, I have made clear that we stand ready to complete an exceptional new trade agreement with the UK that will bring tremendous benefits to both of our countries.  We are working closely with Prime Minister Boris Johnson on a magnificent new trade deal. The most important difference in Americas new approach on trade concerns our relationship with China.  In 2001, China was admitted to the World Trade Organization.  Our leaders then argued that this decision would compel China to liberalize its economy and strengthen protections to provide things that were unacceptable to us, and for private property and for the rule of law.  Two decades later, this theory has been tested and proven completely wrong. Not only has China declined to adopt promised reforms, it has embraced an economic model dependent on massive market barriers, heavy state subsidies, currency manipulation, product dumping, forced technology transfers, and the theft of intellectual property and also trade secrets on a grand scale. As just one example, I recently met the CEO of a terrific American company, Micron Technology, at the White House.  Micron produces memory chips used in countless electronics.  To advance the Chinese governments five-year economic plan, a company owned by the Chinese state allegedly stole Microns designs, valued at up to $8.7 billion.  Soon, the Chinese company obtains patents for nearly an identical product, and Micron was banned from selling its own goods in China.  But we are seeking justice. The United States lost 60,000 factories after China entered the WTO.  This is happening to other countries all over the globe. The World Trade Organization needs drastic change.  The second-largest economy in the world should not be permitted to declare itself a developing country in order to game the system at others expense. For years, these abuses were tolerated, ignored, or even encouraged.  Globalism exerted a religious pull over past leaders, causing them to ignore their own national interests. But as far as America is concerned, those days are over.  To confront these unfair practices, I placed massive tariffs on more than $500 billion worth of Chinese-made goods.  Already, as a result of these tariffs, supply chains are relocating back to America and to other nations, and billions of dollars are being paid to our Treasury. The American people are absolutely committed to restoring balance to our relationship with China.  Hopefully, we can reach an agreement that would be beneficial for both countries.  But as I have made very clear, I will not accept a bad deal for the American people. As we endeavor to stabilize our relationship, were also carefully monitoring the situation in Hong Kong.  The world fully expects that the Chinese government will honor its binding treaty, made with the British and registered with the United Nations, in which China commits to protect Hong Kongs freedom, legal system, and democratic ways of life.  How China chooses to handle the situation will say a great deal about its role in the world in the future.  We are all counting on President Xi as a great leader. The United States does not seek conflict with any other nation.  We desire peace, cooperation, and mutual gain with all.  But I will never fail to defend Americas interests. One of the greatest security threats facing peace-loving nations today is the repressive regime in Iran.  The regimes record of death and destruction is well known to us all.  Not only is Iran the worlds number one state sponsor of terrorism, but Irans leaders are fueling the tragic wars in both Syria and Yemen. At the same time, the regime is squandering the nations wealth and future in a fanatical quest for nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them.  We must never allow this to happen. To stop Irans path to nuclear weapons and missiles, I withdrew the United States from the terrible Iran nuclear deal, which has very little time remaining, did not allow inspection of important sites, and did not cover ballistic missiles. Following our withdrawal, we have implemented severe economic sanctions on the country.  Hoping to free itself from sanctions, the regime has escalated its violent and unprovoked aggression.  In response to Irans recent attack on Saudi Arabian oil facilities, we just imposed the highest level of sanctions on Irans central bank and sovereign wealth fund. All nations have a duty to act.  No responsible government should subsidize Irans bloodlust.  As long as Irans menacing behavior continues, sanctions will not be lifted; they will be tightened.  Irans leaders will have turned a proud nation into just another cautionary tale of what happens when a ruling class abandons its people and embarks on a crusade for personal power and riches. For 40 years, the world has listened to Irans rulers as they lash out at everyone else for the problems they alone have created.  They conduct ritual chants of Death to America and traffic in monstrous anti-Semitism.  Last year the countrys Supreme Leader stated, Israel is a malignant cancerous tumorthat has to be removed and eradicated: it is possible and it will happen.  America will never tolerate such anti-Semitic hate. Fanatics have long used hatred of Israel to distract from their own failures.  Thankfully, there is a growing recognition in the wider Middle East that the countries of the region share common interests in battling extremism and unleashing economic opportunity.  That is why it is so important to have full, normalized relations between Israel and its neighbors.  Only a relationship built on common interests, mutual respect, and religious tolerance can forge a better future. Irans citizens deserve a government that cares about reducing poverty, ending corruption, and increasing jobs  not stealing their money to fund a massacre abroad and at home. After four decades of failure, it is time for Irans leaders to step forward and to stop threatening other countries, and focus on building up their own country.  It is time for Irans leaders to finally put the Iranian people first. America is ready to embrace friendship with all who genuinely seek peace and respect. Many of Americas closest friends today were once our gravest foes.  The United States has never believed in permanent enemies.  We want partners, not adversaries.  America knows that while anyone can make war, only the most courageous can choose peace. For this same reason, we have pursued bold diplomacy on the Korean Peninsula. I have told Kim Jong Un what I truly believe: that, like Iran, his country is full of tremendous untapped potential, but that to realize that promise, North Korea must denuclearize. Around the world, our message is clear: Americas goal is lasting, Americas goal is harmony, and Americas goal is not to go with these endless wars  wars that never end. With that goal in mind, my administration is also pursuing the hope of a brighter future in Afghanistan.  Unfortunately, the Taliban has chosen to continue their savage attacks.  And we will continue to work with our coalition of Afghan partners to stamp out terrorism, and we will never stop working to make peace a reality. Here in the Western Hemisphere, we are joining with our partners to ensure stability and opportunity all across the region.  In that mission, one of our most critical challenges is illegal immigration, which undermines prosperity, rips apart societies, and empowers ruthless criminal cartels. Mass illegal migration is unfair, unsafe, and unsustainable for everyone involved: the sending countries and the depleted countries.  And they become depleted very fast, but their youth is not taken care of and human capital goes to waste. The receiving countries are overburdened with more migrants than they can responsibly accept.  And the migrants themselves are exploited, assaulted, and abused by vicious coyotes.  Nearly one third of women who make the journey north to our border are sexually assaulted along the way.  Yet, here in the United States and around the world, there is a growing cottage industry of radical activists and non-governmental organizations that promote human smuggling.  These groups encourage illegal migration and demand erasure of national borders. Today, I have a message for those open border activists who cloak themselves in the rhetoric of social justice: Your policies are not just.  Your policies are cruel and evil.  You are empowering criminal organizations that prey on innocent men, women, and children.  You put your own false sense of virtue before the lives, wellbeing, and [of] countless innocent people.  When you undermine border security, you are undermining human rights and human dignity. Many of the countries here today are coping with the challenges of uncontrolled migration.  Each of you has the absolute right to protect your borders, and so, of course, does our country.  Today, we must resolve to work together to end human smuggling, end human trafficking, and put these criminal networks out of business for good. To our country, I can tell you sincerely: We are working closely with our friends in the region  including Mexico, Canada, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, and Panama  to uphold the integrity of borders and ensure safety and prosperity for our people.  I would like to thank President Lpez Obrador of Mexico for the great cooperation we are receiving and for right now putting 27,000 troops on our southern border.  Mexico is showing us great respect, and I respect them in return. The U.S., we have taken very unprecedented action to stop the flow of illegal immigration.  To anyone considering crossings of our border illegally, please hear these words: Do not pay the smugglers.  Do not pay the coyotes.  Do not put yourself in danger.  Do not put your children in danger.  Because if you make it here, you will not be allowed in; you will be promptly returned home.  You will not be released into our country.  As long as I am President of the United States, we will enforce our laws and protect our borders. For all of the countries of the Western Hemisphere, our goal is to help people invest in the bright futures of their own nation.  Our region is full of such incredible promise: dreams waiting to be built and national destinies for all.  And they are waiting also to be pursued. Throughout the hemisphere, there are millions of hardworking, patriotic young people eager to build, innovate, and achieve.  But these nations cannot reach their potential if a generation of youth abandon their homes in search of a life elsewhere.  We want every nation in our region to flourish and its people to thrive in freedom and peace. In that mission, we are also committed to supporting those people in the Western Hemisphere who live under brutal oppression, such as those in Cuba, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. According to a recent report from the U.N. Human Rights Council, women in Venezuela stand in line for 10 hours a day waiting for food.  Over 15,000 people have been detained as political prisoners.  Modern-day death squads are carrying out thousands of extrajudicial killings. The dictator Maduro is a Cuban puppet, protected by Cuban bodyguards, hiding from his own people while Cuba plunders Venezuelas oil wealth to sustain its own corrupt communist rule. Since I last spoke in this hall, the United States and our partners have built a historic coalition of 55 countries that recognize the legitimate government of Venezuela. To the Venezuelans trapped in this nightmare: Please know that all of America is united behind you.  The United States has vast quantities of humanitarian aid ready and waiting to be delivered.  We are watching the Venezuela situation very closely.  We await the day when democracy will be restored, when Venezuela will be free, and when liberty will prevail throughout this hemisphere. One of the most serious challenges our countries face is the specter of socialism.  Its the wrecker of nations and destroyer of societies. Events in Venezuela remind us all that socialism and communism are not about justice, they are not about equality, they are not about lifting up the poor, and they are certainly not about the good of the nation.  Socialism and communism are about one thing only: power for the ruling class. Today, I repeat a message for the world that I have delivered at home: America will never be a socialist country. In the last century, socialism and communism killed 100 million people.  Sadly, as we see in Venezuela, the death toll continues in this country.  These totalitarian ideologies, combined with modern technology, have the power to excise  new and disturbing forms of suppression and domination. For this reason, the United States is taking steps to better screen foreign technology and investments and to protect our data and our security.  We urge every nation present to do the same. Freedom and democracy must be constantly guarded and protected, both abroad and from within.  We must always be skeptical of those who want conformity and control.  Even in free nations, we see alarming signs and new challenges to liberty. A small number of social media platforms are acquiring immense power over what we can see and over what we are allowed to say.  A permanent political class is openly disdainful, dismissive, and defiant of the will of the people.  A faceless bureaucracy operates in secret and weakens democratic rule.  Media and academic institutions push flat-out assaults on our histories, traditions, and values. In the United States, my administration has made clear to social media companies that we will uphold the right of free speech.  A free society cannot allow social media giants to silence the voices of the people, and a free people must never, ever be enlisted in the cause of silencing, coercing, canceling, or blacklisting their own neighbors. As we defend American values, we affirm the right of all people to live in dignity.  For this reason, my administration is working with other nations to stop criminalizing of homosexuality, and we stand in solidarity with LGBTQ people who live in countries that punish, jail, or execute individuals based upon sexual orientation. We are also championing the role of women in our societies.  Nations that empower women are much wealthier, safer, and much more politically stable.  It is therefore vital not only to a nations prosperity, but also is vital to its national security, to pursue womens economic development. Guided by these principles, my administration launched the Womens Global Development and Prosperity Initiatives.  The W-GDP is first-ever government-wide approach to womens economic empowerment, working to ensure that women all over the planet have the legal right to own and inherit property, work in the same industries as men, travel freely, and access credit and institutions. Yesterday, I was also pleased to host leaders for a discussion about an ironclad American commitment: protecting religious leaders and also protecting religious freedom.  This fundamental right is under growing threat around the world.  Hard to believe, but 80 percent of the worlds population lives in countries where religious liberty is in significant danger or even completely outlawed.  Americans will never fire or tire in our effort to defend and promote freedom of worship and religion.  We want and support religious liberty for all. Americans will also never tire of defending innocent life.  We are aware that many United Nations projects have attempted to assert a global right to taxpayer-funded abortion on demand, right up until the moment of delivery.  Global bureaucrats have absolutely no business attacking the sovereignty of nations that wish to protect innocent life.  Like many nations here today, we in America believe that every child  born and unborn  is a sacred gift from God. There is no circumstance under which the United States will allow international entries  to trample on the rights of our citizens, including the right to self-defense.  That is why, this year, I announced that we will never ratify the U.N. Arms Trade Treaty, which would threaten the liberties of law-abiding American citizens.  The United States will always uphold our constitutional right to keep and bear arms.  We will always uphold our Second Amendment. The core rights and values America defends today were inscribed in Americas founding documents.  Our nations Founders understood that there will always be those who believe they are entitled to wield power and control over others. Tyranny advances under many names and many theories, but it always comes down to the desire for domination.  It protects not the interests of many, but the privilege of few. Our Founders gave us a system designed to restrain this dangerous impulse.  They chose to entrust American power to those most invested in the fate of our nation: a proud and fiercely independent people. The true good of a nation can only be pursued by those who love it: by citizens who are rooted in its history, who are nourished by its culture, committed to its values, attached to its people, and who know that its future is theirs to build or theirs to lose.  Patriots see a nation and its destiny in ways no one else can. Liberty is only preserved, sovereignty is only secured, democracy is only sustained, greatness is only realized, by the will and devotion of patriots.  In their spirit is found the strength to resist oppression, the inspiration to forge legacy, the goodwill to seek friendship, and the bravery to reach for peace.  Love of our nations makes the world better for all nations. So to all the leaders here today, join us in the most fulfilling mission a person could have, the most profound contribution anyone can make: Lift up your nations.  Cherish your culture.  Honor your histories.  Treasure your citizens. Make your countries strong, and prosperous, and righteous.  Honor the dignity of your people, and nothing will be outside of your reach. When our nations are greater, the future will be brighter, our people will be happier, and our partnerships will be stronger. With Gods help, together we will cast off the enemies of liberty and overcome the oppressors of dignity.  We will set new standards of living and reach new heights of human achievement. We will rediscover old truths, unravel old mysteries, and make thrilling new breakthroughs.  And we will find more beautiful friendship and more harmony among nations than ever before. My fellow leaders, the path to peace and progress, and freedom and justice, and a better world for all humanity, begins at home. Thank you.  God bless you.  God bless the nations of the world.  And God bless America.  Thank you very much."
"Hello, everybody. Well, thank you very much. And good afternoon. As President, my highest and most solemn duty is the defense of our nation and its citizens. Last night, at my direction, the United States military successfully executed a flawless precision strike that killed the number-one terrorist anywhere in the world, Qasem Soleimani. Soleimani was plotting imminent and sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel, but we caught him in the act and terminated him. Under my leadership, Americas policy is unambiguous: To terrorists who harm or intend to harm any American, we will find you; we will eliminate you. We will always protect our diplomats, service members, all Americans, and our allies. For years, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and its ruthless Quds Force  under Soleimanis leadership  has targeted, injured, and murdered hundreds of American civilians and servicemen. The recent attacks on US targets in Iraq, including rocket strikes that killed an American and injured four American servicemen very badly, as well as a violent assault on our embassy in Baghdad, were carried out at the direction of Soleimani. Soleimani made the death of innocent people his sick passion, contributing to terrorist plots as far away as New Delhi and London. Today we remember and honor the victims of Soleimanis many atrocities, and we take comfort in knowing that his reign of terror is over. Soleimani has been perpetrating acts of terror to destabilize the Middle East for the last 20 years. What the United States did yesterday should have been done long ago. A lot of lives would have been saved. Just recently, Soleimani led the brutal repression of protestors in Iran, where more than a thousand innocent civilians were tortured and killed by their own government. We took action last night to stop a war. We did not take action to start a war. I have deep respect for the Iranian people. They are a remarkable people, with an incredible heritage and unlimited potential. We do not seek regime change. However, the Iranian regimes aggression in the region, including the use of proxy fighters to destabilize its neighbors, must end, and it must end now. The future belongs to the people of Iran  those who seek peaceful coexistence and cooperation  not the terrorist warlords who plunder their nation to finance bloodshed abroad. The United States has the best military by far, anywhere in the world. We have best intelligence in the world. If Americans anywhere are threatened, we have all of those targets already fully identified, and I am ready and prepared to take whatever action is necessary. And that, in particular, refers to Iran. Under my leadership, we have destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate, and recently, American Special Operations Forces killed the terrorist leader known as al-Baghdadi. The world is a safer place without these monsters. America will always pursue the interests of good people, great people, great souls, while seeking peace, harmony, and friendship with all of the nations of the world. Thank you. God bless you. God bless our great military. And God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"My fellow Americans: Tonight, I want to speak with you about our nations unprecedented response to the coronavirus outbreak that started in China and is now spreading throughout the world. Today, the World Health Organization officially announced that this is a global pandemic. We have been in frequent contact with our allies, and we are marshalling the full power of the federal government and the private sector to protect the American people. This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history. I am confident that by counting and continuing to take these tough measures, we will significantly reduce the threat to our citizens, and we will ultimately and expeditiously defeat this virus. From the beginning of time, nations and people have faced unforeseen challenges, including large-scale and very dangerous health threats. This is the way it always was and always will be. It only matters how you respond, and we are responding with great speed and professionalism. Our team is the best anywhere in the world. At the very start of the outbreak, we instituted sweeping travel restrictions on China and put in place the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years. We declared a public health emergency and issued the highest level of travel warning on other countries as the virus spread its horrible infection. And taking early intense action, we have seen dramatically fewer cases of the virus in the United States than are now present in Europe. The European Union failed to take the same precautions and restrict travel from China and other hotspots. As a result, a large number of new clusters in the United States were seeded by travelers from Europe. After consulting with our top government health professionals, I have decided to take several strong but necessary actions to protect the health and wellbeing of all Americans. To keep new cases from entering our shores, we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days. The new rules will go into effect Friday at midnight. These restrictions will be adjusted subject to conditions on the ground. There will be exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings, and these prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo, but various other things as we get approval. Anything coming from Europe to the United States is what we are discussing. These restrictions will also not apply to the United Kingdom. At the same time, we are monitoring the situation in China and in South Korea. And, as their situation improves, we will reevaluate the restrictions and warnings that are currently in place for a possible early opening. Earlier this week, I met with the leaders of health insurance industry who have agreed to waive all copayments for coronavirus treatments, extend insurance coverage to these treatments, and to prevent surprise medical billing. We are cutting massive amounts of red tape to make antiviral therapies available in record time. These treatments will significantly reduce the impact and reach of the virus. Additionally, last week, I signed into law an $8.3 billion funding bill to help CDC and other government agencies fight the virus and support vaccines, treatments, and distribution of medical supplies. Testing and testing capabilities are expanding rapidly, day by day. We are moving very quickly. The vast majority of Americans: The risk is very, very low. Young and healthy people can expect to recover fully and quickly if they should get the virus. The highest risk is for elderly population with underlying health conditions. The elderly population must be very, very careful. In particular, we are strongly advising that nursing homes for the elderly suspend all medically unnecessary visits. In general, older Americans should also avoid nonessential travel in crowded areas. My administration is coordinating directly with communities with the largest outbreaks, and we have issued guidance on school closures, social distancing, and reducing large gatherings. Smart action today will prevent the spread of the virus tomorrow. Every community faces different risks and it is critical for you to follow the guidelines of your local officials who are working closely with our federal health expertsand they are the best. For all Americans, it is essential that everyone take extra precautions and practice good hygiene. Each of us has a role to play in defeating this virus. Wash your hands, clean often-used surfaces, cover your face and mouth if you sneeze or cough, and most of all, if you are sick or not feeling well, stay home. To ensure that working Americans impacted by the virus can stay home without fear of financial hardship, I will soon be taking emergency action, which is unprecedented, to provide financial relief. This will be targeted for workers who are ill, quarantined, or caring for others due to coronavirus. I will be asking Congress to take legislative action to extend this relief. Because of the economic policies that we have put into place over the last three years, we have the greatest economy anywhere in the world, by far. Our banks and financial institutions are fully capitalized and incredibly strong. Our unemployment is at a historic low. This vast economic prosperity gives us flexibility, reserves, and resources to handle any threat that comes our way. This is not a financial crisis, this is just a temporary moment of time that we will overcome together as a nation and as a world. However, to provide extra support for American workers, families, and businesses, tonight I am announcing the following additional actions: I am instructing the Small Business Administration to exercise available authority to provide capital and liquidity to firms affected by the coronavirus. Effective immediately, the SBA will begin providing economic loans in affected states and territories. These low-interest loans will help small businesses overcome temporary economic disruptions caused by the virus. To this end, I am asking Congress to increase funding for this program by an additional $50 billion. Using emergency authority, I will be instructing the Treasury Department to defer tax payments, without interest or penalties, for certain individuals and businesses negatively impacted. This action will provide more than $200 billion of additional liquidity to the economy. Finally, I am calling on Congress to provide Americans with immediate payroll tax relief. Hopefully they will consider this very strongly. We are at a critical time in the fight against the virus. We made a life-saving move with early action on China. Now we must take the same action with Europe. We will not delay. I will never hesitate to take any necessary steps to protect the lives, health, and safety of the American people. I will always put the wellbeing of America first. If we are vigilantand we can reduce the chance of infection, which we willwe will significantly impede the transmission of the virus. The virus will not have a chance against us. No nation is more prepared or more resilient than the United States. We have the best economy, the most advanced healthcare, and the most talented doctors, scientists, and researchers anywhere in the world. We are all in this together. We must put politics aside, stop the partisanship, and unify together as one nation and one family. As history has proven time and time again, Americans always rise to the challenge and overcome adversity. Our future remains brighter than anyone can imagine. Acting with compassion and love, we will heal the sick, care for those in need, help our fellow citizens, and emerge from this challenge stronger and more unified than ever before. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you. Hide Transcript"
"Thank you very much, everyone. My administration will do everything possible to help those communities get back on their feet. Were speaking with the governors and representatives. FEMA is already on its way, and they got thereas soon as we heard the word, I said, Get out there. So FEMA is there, and you know the great job that FEMA does. Its, really, something very special.  So we just want to say: Warmest condolences, and were with you all the way. Its a tough deal. That was a bad, bed level five. That was a bad group. Thats as high as it gets. It was a bad grouping of tornadoes. Something thats something incredible, the powerthe horrible, destructive power. America is continuing to make critical progress in our war against the virus. Over the weekend, the number of daily new infections remained flat nationwide. Flat. Hospitalizations are slowing in hotspots like New York, New Jersey, Michigan, and Louisiana. This is clear evidence that our aggressive strategy to combat the virus is working and that Americans are following the guidelines. Its been incredible what theyve done. You looked at the charts, and the charts areand the models from early onpredictions were 100  and 120,000 people look like. If they did well, they were going to unfortunately perish. And were going to be, hopefully, way, way below that number. So that will be a sign of people doing things right, but its still just a horrible thing all over the world. A hundred and eighty-four countries. This is all a tribute to our wonderful healthcare advisors and experts who have been with us right from the beginning. We appreciate it so much. In fact, Dr. Fauci is here. Maybe I could ask Tony to say a few words before we go any further. Thank you very much. Tony, please.  And, by the way, the travel ban, that was earlier. The travel ban was done earlier.  And if you look at statisticsI happened to write a couple of them down. If you look at statisticsso, on January 6ththats long before the dates youre talking aboutthere wereCDC issued a travel notice for Wuhan, China, a notice, before there was even a confirmed case of the virus in the United States. Thats on January 6th. This is all documented. Because we have so much fake news, I like to document things. January 6th, long before the dates were talking about, CDC issued travel notice to Wuhanfor Wuhan. On January 11th, we have zero cases in the United States. Zero. We dont have any cases. So there are no cases reported that we know of. This is January 11th. The CDC issued a level one travel notice healthfor health, while there were still no confirmed cases. So we had zero cases. People want me to act. Im supposed to close down the economythe greatest economy in the history of the worldand we dont have one case confirmed in the United States. Thats January 11th. On January 17th, the CDC began implementing public health entry screenings at three major U.S. airports that received the greatest volume of passengers from Wuhan, at my instructions. There was not a single case of the coronavirus in the United States. So on January 17th, there wasnt a case, and the fake news is saying, Oh, he didnt act fast enough. Well, you remember what happened. Because when I did act, I was criticized by Nancy Pelosi, by Sleepy Joe Biden. I was criticized by everybody. In fact, I was called xenophobic. I was asking Biden to please define that for me. I was called other things by Democrats and some othersnot too many others, actually. So thatby the media, definitely. Now, on January 21stthis is long before the time were talking, because when Tony is talking, I believe hes talking about the end of February. On January 21st, okaystill earlythere was one case of the virus. At that time, we called it the Wuhan virus, right? Wuhan. There was one case in the whole United States. We have one case. This is all documented. It all comes from you. A lot of it comes from you people. On January 21st, the CDC activated an emergency operation center. There was just one case, one person. Thats why that ad was such a phony. There was one person in the United States. You know they used the ad, Theres only one person That statement was made at that time. One case. In the whole United States, one case. Im supposed to shut down the government? The biggestthe biggest economy in the history of the world. Shut it down. We have one case. Seven cases were on January 31st. Now, on January 21st, there was a case. Not one person had died. You heard that, Steve, right? Not one person. So we have this massive country, the United States of America. We have the greatest economy in the worldbigger than Chinas, by a lotright?because of what weve done over the last three and a half years, prior to the virus, but including the virus. So we have the biggest economy, the greatest economy weve ever had; the highest employment numbers; the best employment numbers; best unemployment numbers also. The best of everything. So, on January 31stthink of itnot one person has died. Not one. Nobody died. Not one, Jon. I dont think youll find any. This is reported by CDC, confirmed by the newswhich doesnt mean anything to me because they dont tell the truth. But CDC reported: January 31st, not one person has died. And I issued a travel restriction from China. Think of it. So nobody died, and I issued. You cant get earlier than that. So we have nobody died, and I said, China, you cant come in. Im sorry. Because I saw what was going on. It wasnt so much what I was told; it was that I saw what was going on and I didnt like it. But I didnt speak to Tony about it. Didnt speak to very many people about it. I didnt like it. So what did I do? Ready? January 31st: In the United States, not one person had died because of theagain, the Wuhan virus. So I issued travel restrictions on that date, even though nobody died, and I got brutalized over it by the press because I was way too early; I shouldnt have done it. Brutalized by the press. But, you know, sort ofIve been brutalized for the last four years. I used to do well before I decided to run for politics. But I guess Im doing okay because, to the best of my knowledge, Im the President of the United States, despite the things that are said. So, then, first mandatory quarantine in more than 50 years, we did. First mandatory in 50 years. The same restrictions that the Democrats and the media called xenophobic. Now, Joe Biden said, Hes a racist. He called me a racist because I said, Were shutting down entry from China. Were shutting it down. He called me xenophobic, and he called me racist and other things. Since then, on a Friday night, two weeks ago, Joe Biden issued a state-it wasnt him; he didnt write it. Im sure he doesnt even know that it was issued. But the people from his campaignwho are smart. The people that write those little PR releases are pretty smart, reasonably good. Not the best, but theyre not bad. But they issued a statement, saying that Joe Biden agrees that the Pres-that President Trump was right to close it down to China. Now, he did that. Now, he issued it on Friday night. Weve all heard about that, JonFriday nights, right? In fact, his was later Friday night than I ever released mine on Friday night. Okay?  So he didhe did it pretty late. I mean, you know, like at 11 oclock in the evening or something. You know, thats pretty late. Anyway. So Joe Biden issuedand its one of those things. But, in February, Nancy Pelosi said we should come to Chinatown. This is late February. Come to Chinatown. We think its very safe. Come here. Lets all have the big paradeChinatown parade. Probably referring to San Francisco. And thats it. But I took this action early. And so the story in the New York Times was a total fake. Its a fake newspaper and they write fake stories. And somedayhopefully in five years, when Im not herethose papers are all going out of business because nobody is going to want to read them. But now they like them because they write about me. Now, with that, I have a couple of interestingwe have a few clips that were just going to put up. We could turn the lights a little bit lower. I think youll find them interesting. And then well answer some questions. Ill ask you some questions because youre so guilty, but forget it. But most importantly, were going to get back onto the reason were here, which is the success were having. Okay? Please, you could put it on. Thank you. ( ) So we could give you hundreds of clips like that from governorsincluding Democratic or Democrat, as I call them, governors, which is actually the correct term. We could give you hundreds of clips just like that. We have them. We didnt want this to go on too long, but I just want to say itsyou know, its very sad when people write false stories like, in that case, I guess it was gotten mostly from the New York Times, which is a highlyI mean, if you had libel laws, they would have been out of business even before theyll end up going out of business. So its too bad. But we could have given youyou saw the statements. We have hundreds of statements. Hundreds of statements, including from Democrats and Democrat governors. And if you look, they were all saying, We need ventilators. We need You dont hear ventilators anymore. They have all the ventilators they need, which we were right about. We said, Youre asking for too many. You dont need that. And, in all fairness, these two people right hereDr. Birx, Dr. Faucithey said, I dont think they need that many ventilators. And I said, I agree. At one pointand Im not knocking New York for this, but they were askingyou remember?40,000 ventilators. And thats more than they have all over the country. And we got them a lot of ventilators, and nobody has complained. We got them, as you know, beautifulwe built hospital rooms all over the country. The governor of Louisiana, John Bel Edwards, was very nice. He said, You know what? You dont have to build a second hospital. Because good news is happening. Theyre not able to fill the beds. They needed two hospitals. We built one; it was perfect. Were gettingwere just starting the other. I called him up. I said, Do you think we should build the second one? I dont think youre going to need it. He said, Let me get back. He got back. We didnt need it. With Governor Cuomo, in all good spirit and faith, he wanted to have the Jacob Javits Center done. And we built 2,900 incredible beds. Incredible. Then we make itwe made it COVIDandor, to be exactly accurate, COVID-19, andwhich was a lot of work. We had to change the ductwork. We had to seal up certain areas. We had to put areas of rooftop things over the beds. We did a lot of work. And we had itbut they never really had too much use for it. And they called alsoMayor de Blasio, rightfully, he called. He said, Would it be possible to get more medical help? So, now, not only are we building facilities, weretheyre asking us for help because theyre unable to man it. And we got him the help. We got Mayor de Blasio a lot of help. Then, when the Javits Center wasnt used muchand then, as you know, the Mercyand we took the Mercy and we took the Comfort, and we made them bothLos Angeles and New Yorkwe made them COVID-adaptable, which was not easy to do. And we didnt get almost any people sent there. They didnt need them at the beginning because they didnt need it for anything but this because there were fewer accidents, fewer motorcycles, fewer everything. And what we did was like an incredible job, but they didnt need them. It turned outthey were there. We were ready. You know the expression? They have an expression: Ready, willing, and able. We were ready, willing, and able. What the Army Corps of Engineers did was a miracle. Whatwhat FEMA did was a miracle. What the doctors did. So I got a call two days ago from the mayor of New York. He said, Could you help us even more with medical personnel? And we sentI think it was 448 doctors, nurses, and respiratory experts. Real experts. And I got a call from the mayor and he said, I want to tell you: Incrediblethese people are incredible. He said, They lifted the spirits of the hospital workers from New York City like nothing Ive ever seen. Heshe was unbelievable, what he said. It was really appreciated. And I let them know that. I let the military peoplehe said, They went in there so brave, so incredible. They lifted the spirits of everybody. We did all of this work, but when you read the phony stories, younobodynobody acknowledges this. And it doesnt have to be acknowledged, from my standpoint, but it does have to be acknowledged from the great work that these doctors, nurses, the Army Corps of Engineers, FEMAall these people, theyve done this incredible job. And they shouldnt be abused becauseyou take a look at whats happened. Nobody is asking for ventilators, except outside of our country. Outside of our country, theyre calling meevery country. Theyre calling me. So many countries. And Im going to try and help them because we have thousands of ventilators being built. But nobody is asking for ventilators. Nobody is asking for beds because we built hospitals. I think we built 20,000 beds in a period of a couple of weeks. The job theyve done is incredible. With all of that being said, Im getting along very well with governors. And if I wouldnt, Mike Pence had a call today with the governors and it was like a 10. I said, How was it? He said, Its a 10. He was one of my expressions, actually. But he said it was like a 10. And Im sure you people were probably on the call, although you werent supposed to be. But you were sitting in somebodys office listening to it, because every time we have theseand, you know, and you would know that for weeks those calls have been very good. But there wasnt a raised voice. There wasnt even a statement of like, We think you should do this or that. I heard it was, like, just a perfect phone call. It might not be reported that way. Theyll say, I thought that somebody maybe slightly raised Didnt even raise a voice. My only point of saying this, because I want to get back to why were here: The press has not treated these incredible people whove done such a great job, they havent treated them fairly. Theyre way off. We were way ahead of schedule. And remember thisbecause the Times story was a fakebut everythingremember this: Everything we did, I was criticized because I was too early. If I waited longer, it would have beenyou would have been critic-if I went way early, if I went three months earlier, I would have been criticizedyou know, criticized for being way too early. So, with all of that being said, we understand it. I think Ive educated a lot of people as to the press. And I would love to be able to say that we have a very honest press. Honestly, Jon, thered be nothing I would be more proud of if the press would workand I dont mind being criticized, but not when theyre wrong. Not when people have done a great job. Yes.  That was done by a group in the office, and it was done just bywe just put some clips together.  I could give youIll bet you I have over 100 more clips even better than them. They were just pieced together over the last two hours. That was justoh, we have far better than that. Thats nothing compared to some of them.  Yeah, this was done by Dan and a group of people, and they just put it together in a period of probably less than two hours.  Because were getting fake news, and I like to have it corrected. Theyre saying what a great job were doing, and the mediathese are the governors of California, governor of New Jersey, governor of New York. Look, in New York, we work very close with Andrew. In New York, ventilatorswere going to be probablywe didntthey didnt have a problem. We got them tremendous numbers ofthousands, but we got them a tremendous number of ventilator. You dont hear ventilators are a problem. Beds were going to be a problem. I mean, Im happy about it. The Javits Center, which is incredible, is almost empty because they dont need them. Thats good news, not bad news. Imyou know, Im not saying, Gee, I wish more people were there. I dont want more people there. We brought in the boat. We brought in the Comfort. And the Comfort was originally not supposed to be for this at allthe coronavirus. It was not supposed to be for that at all. They called, they said, Could we have it? That was a number of weeks ago. We said, We dont think you need it, but if you need it, well do it. Then they said, Could you get the medical personnel to run the Javits Center? Could you get the medical personnel to run the ship? We said, If its necessary, we will. And we did. There were military personnel. Thats the ones that Mayor de Blasio was so great to, in terms of his statements. I mean, I really appreciated his statements. He was so impressed with them, and I am too. The level of genius and bravery. Theyre great people, the military people. And we pieced that togetherI would say it took less than two hours. It was done in house. Steve?  I wouldnt use the word produced. All they did was took some clips, and they just ran them for you. And the reason they did is to keep you honest. Now, I dont think thats going to work. Its not going to have any impact. But just think of it: You heard the clips, you heard what I said. They said I acted late on closing down the country. Some people wish we never closed it down. Now, if we didnt, we would have lost hundreds of thousands of people. You know, interestinglyso ImIm against that. We did the right thing. Everything we did was right. If we would have closed down   Wellwell, look, governors should have had ventilators; they chose not to have them. We were able to get them ventilators. You havent heardother than, you know, there was a lot of panic, a lot of screaming, We want ventilators. They got the ventilators. You dont have that anymore. And the surge is supposed to be coming now. And if they do need ventilators, Jon, weve got almost 10,000 that are ready to rock. We have people standing with those ventilators right now. If you needed 2,000 in New York, which you dont, but if you did, we can have them here in less than 24 hours. Were ready to rock. This was a greatthis was a great militaryand beyond thatoperation. Lets get back to the regular. Shouldnt we get back to the regular? We could talk about this, but all Im doing is this: I could have given youlike, those are four or five clips that we just played for you. I could have given you hundreds of peopleI mean, Gavin was on television two days ago with one of your competitors, singing praises. He says, Look You know, the question was asked in a negative way. He said, Look, I know what you want to say butwant me to say, but hes been really good. Its hard for me to say that. In fact, its impossible for me to say it. Gavin Newsom, the governor of California. I have many clips from manyI have some clips from Anthony, that I didnt want to put up, which were really good. I think Anthony would be the first one to say, when I closed the country to China, when I closed thethe China ban, whatever you want to call itAnthony said I saved a lot of lives by doing that. I mean, am I correct? I dont want to put words in Anthonys mouth, by the way, and I like him. Today, I walk in and I hear Im going to fire him. Im not firingI think hes a wonderful guy.  I retweeted somebody. I dont know. They said fire. It doesnt matter.  Yeah, I notice everything.  No, no, thats somebodys opinion. All that is is an opinion.  No, I was called about that. I said, Im not firing him. In fact, if you ask your friends in the officein the public relations office, I was immediately called upon that. And I said, No, I like him. I think hes terrific. Because this was a persons view. Not everybody is happy with Anthony. Not everybody is happy with everybody. But I will tell you, we have done a job, the likes of which nobody has ever done. The mobilization, getting of equipment, all of the things weve donenobody has ever done a job like this. We have 50 governorsand territories, by the way. People dont ever mention that we have territories. We have 50 governors and territories, and many of those governors are Democrats, and they cant find anything to complain about. And honestly, many of them didnt do their jobs. Ill let you know somedaylets see what happensbut I may let you know whos not doing their job. I can tell you the ones that are good, both Republican and Democrat, and the ones who dont know what theyre doing. But we help some of the ones that dont know what theyre doing. They should have had their own stockpiles. And now, if they want, we can build them stockpiles of ventilators. The hardest thing is a ventilator, because its expensive, it takes a while to get. We got them, and nobody believed we did. Now, many of the governors were asking for far too many. And we said they were asking for far too many. We talked and we saidyou said very strongly that they just dont need that many. You said they dont need that many bedsDeborah. So thats it.  Steve, go ahead.  Yeah, we have been from the beginning. I dont know what it is exactly. But if I put somebodys opinion upyou know, I dont mind controversy. I think controversy is a good thing, not a bad thing. But I want it to be honest controversy. Now, when I got a callI got a call not very quickly; nobody, you know, saw that as being any big dealthey said, How are you doing with Dr. Fauci? I said, Im doing great. And I didnt talk to Dr. Fauci, even until we just got here. Dr. Fauci asked one of the people if he could get up and speak, and he did.  And they totally misinterpreted him. I saw what they did.  Heres the thing. No, no. What he really is saying though: But how could you have done it? Look, I just went over stats with you. Right here. Right here. How do you close it up? You have no deaths and no cases on January 11th. Doctor, would you recommend closing the United States of America? Oh, this must be terrible. How many cases do we have? None. How many deaths do we have? None. January 17thgo back another week. On January 17ththis is 10 days before I did thelittle bit less than 10 days before I did the ban. I did a ban on China. You think that was easy? I then did a ban on Europe. And a lot of people said that was an incredible thing to do, because you look at Spainand, by the way, were doing very well because when you look at all of those flat graphs and you add it all up, the United States is very low, and per capita were very low. Were doing very well. But how do you close up the United States of America? So, on January 6th, no deaths. On January 11th, no deaths. And nono cases. On January 17th, no cases, no cases, no deaths. Im supposed to close up the United States of America when I have no cases?  I closed down from China.  Excuse me, I closed it down from China. And, by the way, some people think I should have waited longer and maybe ridden it out. I disagree with them. Okay? But it was thought of. I mean, that was an alternative. You know, there are a lot of people that would have said, Lets ride it out. Now, Ill give you the good news. If I would have done that, it would have been, I think, catastrophic because their numbers are, Anthony, 1.6 to 2.2 million people would have died if we tried to do that. And I did this last time: Cut it in half. Dont say 2.2 million. Cut it in more than half. Say a million people diedwell, thats much more than the Civil War. Cut it in half. Take the million and cut it in half; thats 500,000 people would have died. Now, that number we would have reached. Okay? That would have been easy to reach if we did nothing. So we did the right thing, and our timing was very good. But heres the one thingand you have to say thiswhen you ask me, Why didnt you do this?how come when I did the ban on China and some very, veryinstituted some very tough things, how come Nancy Pelosi, a month later, is in Chinatown, saying, Lets all march. This is not going to happen? How come we have many of the experts from CNN and many other networksif you call CNN a network; I dont, personally. But we have CNN, we have many other places, and theyre all saying, He doesnt need to do it. He doesnt need to do it. All Im saying is this: How do you close down the greatest economy in the history of the world when, on January 17th, you have no cases and no death; when on January 21st, you have one case and no death? One case. Think of it. Now, were supposed to close down the country? But heres what happened: When, on January 31st, I instituted the ban, Joe Biden went crazy. He said, You dont need the ban. You He didnt go crazy. Like, he hashe didnt even know what the hell the ban was. But heso he didnt go crazy. But he did say   He did call me xenophobic.  Wait a minute. He called me xenophobic; he called me a racist becausehe has since apologized and he said I did the right thing. So when you say, Why didnt you do this? Every Democrat thought I made a mistake when I did it. I saved tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of lives, by doing that.  Youre soyoure so   Youre so disgraceful. Its so disgraceful the way you say that.  Let me justlisten.  I just went over it.  I just went over it.  Nobody thought we should do it. And when I did it   You know what we did?  You know what we did?  What do you dowhat do you do when you have no case in the whole United States when you   Excuse me. You reported it: zero cases, zero deaths on January 17th.  January. I said in January.  On January 30th   A lot.  A lot. And, in fact, well give you a listwhat we did. In fact, part of it was up there. We did a lot.  Look. Look, you know youre a fake. You know that. Your whole networkthe way you cover itis fake. And most of youand not all of youbut the people are wise to you. Thats why you have a lowera lower approval rating than youve ever had before, times probably three.  And when you ask me that questions   Let me ask you this: Why didnt Bidenwhy did Biden apologize? Why did he write a letter of apology?  Why did the Democrats think that I acted too quickly? You know why? Because they really thought that I acted too quickly. We have done a great job.  Now, I couldveI couldve kept it open. And I couldve done what some countries are doing. Theyre getting beat up pretty badly. I could have kept it open. I thought of keeping it open because nobody has ever heard of closing down a country, let alone the United States of America. But if I would have done that, we would have had hundreds of thousands of people that would right now be dead. Weve done this right. And we reallywe really have done this right. The problem is the press doesnt cover it the way it should be. Go ahead. One more question. Steve, go ahead.  Well, I have the ultimate authority, but were going to get into that in a minute. Were going to just finish this up. Were going to tell you about other things that weve done right. But I will say this: Had we said, Lets just keep going and lets not do a closingwhether its 2.2 that they, at one point, predicted as an outside or 1.6 at a lower number; you cut it all the way down to 6- or 7- or 800,000; take just a fraction of the number that could have happened, it literally would have been more than the Civil War. It would have been a disaster. So, the minimum number was 100,000. And I thinkI feel pretty good that were going to be substantially below, Anthony, the 100,000. And I hope we will. All right. So, today, the Department of Health and Human Services is announcing five new contracts to procure large numbers of additional ventilators under the Defense Production Act, which we used a lot, by the waywhich you didnt like to talk aboutin addition to the 1,300 we received today. We received, today, 1,300 additional ventilators. Now, were probably not going to need them, but we can add that to our stockpile, which is very big, and we can move it around should the surge take place and should it be a very substantial surge. Were ready towere ready to rock. The contracts are with General Electric, Hillrom, Medtronic, ResMed, and Vyaire, combined with the DPA contracts that we announced last week with General Motors and Philips and two other contracts with Hamilton and ZOLL. Were adding 6,190 ventilators to the Strategic National Stockpile, of which we have a lot alreadythousandsclose to 10,000. But this will be added by May 8th, another 29,000 by the end of May. And more than 120,000 total we will have by the end of the year. Now, were going to help other countries. Were going to help states if they need it. We may help some states stockpile. You know, theyre supposed to buy their own stockpile. They have state stockpiles. Theyre supposed to be using that. And unfortunately, most of the states werent there. And a lot of people didnt want to talk about it, but they werent there. We will talk about it at the right time, if you want to. Iat this point, Im more focused on getting past this nightmare of a epidemic or a pandemicanything you want to call it. We got to get past it. No one who has needed a ventilator has not gotten a ventilator. Think of that. You know, you heard all about ventilators, ventilators. We need ventilators. Because they didnt have them. Because the states should have had them. No one who has needed a ventilator has not gotten a ventilator. No one who has needed a hospital bed has been denied a hospital bed. Thats not even really our responsibility. Now, if we can help, were going to do it. But thats where the Army Corps of Engineers did such a great job. We built over 20,000 beds. In fact, we built thousands more than weve actually needed to be safe. We wanted to be safe and we reallythey rose to this incredible occasion. I mean, we built more beds than we thought. We thought, in Louisiana, we were going heavy. And again, when I called the governor, I said, Maybe we shouldnt build that second hospital, because we dont want to build it if you dont need it. He called back, he said, I dont think were going to need it. They had 1,000 rooms, 1,000 beds, and they used a lot of them, but they didnt need the other one so we stopped it because we dont want to waste. But were prepared to build thousands more should we need it. I dont think were going to need it because it looks like were plateauing and maybe even, in many cases, coming down. In addition, weve ordered a total of 60 mobile decontamidation -contamination systems. So the decontamination system from Battelle, in Ohio, is an incredible thing because it takes the masks, and up to 20 times you can decontaminate a mask. And Ive been asking from the beginning: Why cant we sterilize and sanitize these masks? And it turned out we can. And there was a great company in Ohio, they sent us some great equipment, and theyre doing that now. And now were going to have more than 33 million N95 masks per week will be cleaned, decontaminated, and itll be great. Its something that, frankly, I think people should have thought of a long time ago. Five more flights landed today as part of the Project Air Bridgeour massive air lift operation to bring personal protective equipment into the United States, which has now delivered nearly half a million N95 masks, 370 million gloves, 25 million surgical masks, and 4.9 million gowns. So, we have millions of gowns, gloves, masks, all surgical equipment coming in should the states need it. Now, the statesthe states are supposed to be buying their own stuff. But should they need it, we are ready to give them, because were building up our stockpile again like crazy. Remember, Iand you saw the stories. I inheritedthis administrationMike, myself, the whole administration, we inherited a stockpile where the cupboards were bare. There was nothing. And I say it and Ill say it again: Just like we didnt have ammunition, we didnt have medical supplies, we didnt have ventilators, we didnt have a lot of things that should have been had. And you can read your own stories on that because you know what happened: They didnt want to spend the money. But we did. To date, weve facilitated the supply of more than 38 million N95 masks nationwide. This week, well be sending 2 million N95 masks to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Vice President will go into more detail. Hes got great detail on that, and I think its a pretty amazing story. We have a lot of masks already in stock, and we have more coming. Were further expanding hospital surge capacity in key areas of the opening, and we have a portion of certain VA hospitals and non-veteran coronavirus patients, including at the East Orange, New Jersey Medical Center, as well as facilities in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Theyre ready. Theyre able. Theyre beautiful. Hopefully, we wont need too many of them because, frankly, we built everything that the governors wanted. And in many cases, its too much. We told them it was too much, but we wanted to err on the side of caution. The United States has now conducted nearly 3 million tests for the virus. Three millionthe most of any nation. We are performing approximately 150,000 tests every single day and our rate of testing is especially high in areas hardest hit by the virus, if you look. And thats reallyand it has hit some areasthe virusvery, very hard. For example, per capita testing in New York is higher than the rest of the world. The NIH, CDC, and FDA are also currently validating several antibody tests that will allow us to determine whether someone has already had the virus and potentially become immune to infection. Were looking at that. The antibody tests are going to be very interesting, over the next short while. A lot of things are being developed, as we speak. In the race to develop effective treatments, the drug company Gilead announced that its drug, remdesivir, has shown promising resultsvery promisingin compassionate use settings. In addition, the FDA has just granted emergency use authorization for a device that removes certain proteins from the bloodstream, possibly preventing a patients immune system from overreacting to the virus and damaging vital organs, which is a big problem. Furthermore, over the last seven days, my administration has deployed roughly 28 million doses of hydroxychloroquine from our National Stockpile. We have millions of doses that we bought and many people are using it all over the country. And just recently, a friend of mine told me he got better because of the use of thatthat drug. So, who knows? And you combine it with Z-Pak, you combine it with Zincdepending on your doctors recommendation. And its having some very good results, Ill tell you. I think if anybody recommended it other than me, it would be used all over the place, to be honest with you. I think the fact that I recommended it, I probably set it back a lot. But its a lot of good things that are happening with it. A lot of good tests. Scientists are also pursuing a blood therapy known as convalescent plasma. Convalescent plasma. This therapy uses antibodies from the blood of recovered patients to treat those who are sick. And this is something that actually is a very old procedure, but its done in a very modern way. During this difficult time, were also working to ensure that the 2020 Census is completed safely and accuracy.  We may be asking for an extension because, obviously, they cant be doing very much right now. They wouldnt even be allowed to do it. So, the Census, were going to be asking for a delaya major delay, I think. How can you possibly be knocking on doors for a long period of time now? The Census Bureau recently made the decision to temporarily suspend its field operation data-collection activities to help stop the spread. In addition, while millions of Americans continue to complete their questionnaire online, the Census Bureau has asked Congress for a 120 extension. I dont know that you even have to ask them. This is called an act of God. This is called aa situation that has to bethey have to give in. I think 120 days isnt nearly enough. My administration is also taking bold action to help American workers. On Friday, Americans began receiving the cash payments authorized by a historic $2 trillion relief bill. By the end of the week, nearly 80 million Americans will receive a total of $147 billion. And from what the Secretary of the Treasury tells me, thats very much on time and going very nicely. Hell be speaking in a moment. And paymentsthese payments go directly into the banks and the bank accounts of these people. Millions of additional payments will follow. The typical family of four will receive $3,400. Thats for a family of four. Thats something. Additionally, through our Paycheck Protection Program which is a tremendous success, and they should extend it and increase it. This has been a tremendous success. So successful that the banks are taking a little bit longer to distribute the money, but its going rapidly. Weve now processed over $200 billion in loans to help small businesses retain their workers. Now we urgently need lawmakers to set aside the partisan agendas and to replenish this program with new funds because its really something that has been an incredible success. And they need more money to keep it going to take care of these business and keep themkeep them open. I want to thank the many governors, health professionals, scientists, and business leaders for their incredible hard work and input over the past month, and even long beyond a month, Mike, I would say. You know, weve been working together with a lot of for, it seems like, forever. Ive been having many discussions with my team and top experts, and were very close to completing a plan to open our country, hopefully even ahead of schedule. And thats so important. We will soon finalize new and very important guidelines to give governors the information they need to start safely opening their states. My administrations plan and corresponding guidelines will give the American people the confidence they need to begin returning to normal life. Thats what we want. We want to have our country open. We want to return to normal life. Our country is going to be open, and its going to be successfully opened. And well be explaining over a very short number of days exactly what is going to be. Weve also, as you probably heard, developed a committee. Were actually calling it a number of committees with the most prominent people in the country, the most successful people in the various fields. And well be announcing them tomorrow. This weekend, the United States also helped facilitate an unprecedented agreement among the 23 nations of OPEC Plusthats OPEC plus additional energy-producing nationsrepresenting many of the worlds largest oil-producing countries to stabilize oil markets. And we have, in factand I think youve seen a big stabilization over the last couple of days. Together, countries around the world will cut oil production by approximately 20 million barrels. People are saying 10 million, but we think that the number that theyll actually hit is going to be closer to 20 million barrels a day. And that will help a lot with saving jobs all over Texas and Oklahoma and North Dakota and many of otherother of our big energy states. This historic action will help nearly 11 million American workers who are supported by the U.S. oil and gas industry. Its a very monumental agreement. I want to thank Saudi Arabia and the King of Saudi Arabia, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabiaboth. I want to thank President Putin of Russia. And I want to thank a very good friend of minea man whos become a friend of mine: The President of Mexico showed great flexibility. President Lpez Obrador. He showed great flexibility andand tremendous intelligence doing what he did. It was not that easy for him. And I want to thank Mexico and the president. This is a very historic deal. Very historic. So well see how it all goes. In this time and challengeand we are certainly in a time probably like we havent been in many, many decadeswe are strengthened and sustained by the bonds of love and loyalty that unite all Americans. Im so proud of the American people. Everywhere you look, you see the patriotism of our people shining through and the courage of our doctors and nurses on the frontlines, and the dedication of our food supply workers, and in the commitment of every citizen to achieving victory over the virus. Thats whats going to happen. Its going to happen sooner than people think. And were going to be smart about it. Very, very smart about it. Were going to be safe about it. Were going to be listening also to the great doctors and medical professionals. Together, were beating back the invisible enemy and were paving the way for great resurgence. Really, a great resurgence for American prosperity. Our country wants to go back. They want to go back to work. Theyre going to go back safely, and thats what we want. Id like now to ask Vice President Pence to say a few words, followed by Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx. I think before webefore we do thisbecause I know theres an emergency where they want Steve to come. So what Ill do is Ill ask Steve to come upSecretary of the Treasury. You can talk a little bit and then maybe take a couple of questions about whats happening. Tell them the success were having. Thank you very much. SECRETARY MNUCHIN: Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President. As you announced, we are very pleased that we are ahead of schedule on delivering the economic impact payments. These are what was known as the checks in the mail that we want to deliver in directdirect deposit. This is ahead of schedule. We started processing those last Friday. We expect that over 80 million hardworking Americans will get the direct deposit by this Wednesday. And we know how important that is to all of those hardworking Americans, many of which are at home, not working at the moment. If you do not receive them by Wednesdayon Wednesday, we will be launching at IRS.gov. Click on IRS.gov, go to Get Your Payment. If you filed a tax return in 2018 and 19or 19have that information available. Youll be able to ID yourself, youll be able to put in your direct deposit information, and within several days, we will automatically deposit the money into your account. We want to do as much of this electronically as we can. Its very important in this day and age. Its more secure, and you dont have to go to the bank. If youre a Social Security beneficiary, you do not need to do anything. You will get a direct deposit. If you have not filed and did not need to file a 2018 and 19 return, you can go to IRS.gov now and enter your information and authenticate yourself. So again, we are very pleased that that is ahead of schedule. Id also like to announce the progress were making on the new SBA program, the PPP. Let me just remind everybody: This is a brand-new program that is now one week old. We have distributed and confirmed $230 billion of loans to over 4,600 lenders participating. That is multiples and multiples of anything that the SBA has ever done inin one year, before. And I especially want to thank the broad-based community banks that are participating. Again, over 4,600 banks. If you havent had your loan processed, you will get it processed this week. As the President said, weve gone back to Congress and asked them for more money to make sure that every business has access to this. Let me also comment for the states. We are distributing out half the money, this week, to the states. Thats a week ahead of time. And well deliver the other half of the money to the states next week. And then let me just finally comment, weve been veryworking very closely with the Federal Reserve. Last week, we announced expanded facilities and new facilities that total $2.3 trillion of liquidity. And in particular, Id just like to highlight a Main Street lending facility that will be for companies between one worker and 10,000 peopleso mid-sized businessesand also, a municipal facility for states and local governments to be able to access funds given the shortages that they have. So with that, Im happy to answer any questions  You have any questions for Steve, please?  Negotiation.  We have to doeverything has to be safe. We want safe.  Well, Ill be doing that over the next few days because well probably be making a statement about that and exactly what it looks like. I know what that looks like, but I also want to get the advice, in a sense. We have some of thethe biggest from every business on this council. Were actually setting up a number of different councils or committees, I guess you could call them. And we have a lot of smart people. I think that they will give us some also good advice. But, no, we want to be very, very safe. At the same time, we got to get our country open.  I do think so. Eventually, they will. Yeah.  I think eventually they will do that. And I think were going toboomI think were going toI think its going to go quickly. Our people want to get back to work, and I think theres a pent-up demand like there hasnt been in a long time. And thats whyand thats why you see the stock marketI mean, to think that the stock market is at the level it is right now, with all that this world and this country has gone. And look at the European Union, how badly decimated theyve been. Look at other countries. Look at China, by the way. Ive seen the numbers. Look at China. Look at how these countries have been just decimated by this. And to think that the stock market is at this tremendously high number. Not that muchyou know, it was looking a little bleak for a while, but itit hit a certain point and then started going up. I think thats a great tribute to the fact that theres a demand. Yeah.  Numerous provisions. Well give you a legal brief if you want.  Well, I think everybody wants to open. I mean, I guess, you know, that could happen, but I dont think that would happen. Go ahead please.  Thats because I let that happen because I would have preferred that. I let that happen. But if I wanted to, I could have closed it up. But I let that happen and I like the way theyve done it. And the seven that remained really in sort of a semi-lockdownif you look at those states, theyve really done a very good job. Theyre very much different from a New York or from other places where theyve been hit very hard.  Go ahead, please. Yeah.  Well, they can decide, but   No, not at all. Let me just tell youvery simple. Im going to put it very simply: The President of the United States has the authority to do what the President has the authority to do, which is very powerful. The President of the United States calls the shots. If we werent here for the states, you would have had a problem in this country like youve never seen before. We were here to back them up. And were backingand weve more than backed them up. We did a job that nobody ever thought was possible. Its a decision for the President of the United States. Now, with that being said, were going to work with the states because its very important. You have local governments, theyre pinpointed. Its reallyyou talk aboutits like a microchip. They are pinpointed. We have local government that hopefully will do a good job. And if they dont do a good job, Id step in so fast. But no, they cant do anything without the approval of the President of the United States.  Go ahead, please.  Well, if some states refuse to open, I would beI would like to see that person run for election. Theyre going to open. Theyre going to all open.  I think thats something thats not going to happen. They want to open. They have to open. They have to get open. Every one of those states, the people want to go and they want to  Now, some will beare in a different situation. You haveI wont name states now, but I will over the next two or three days. Im going to be very specific. But you have some states where this is not the kind of a problem than it is in New York or Louisiana or Michigan or other places that got hit very hard. Illinois got hit very hard. But all states want to open and they want to open as soon as possible. But they want to open safely and so do I. Yeah, please.  No, France got hit very hard. France got hit very hard. And again, he has to do what he has to do. Hes a friend of mine. But FranceSpain has just been decimated. You look at whats happened in Italy, its a very well-known fact, what happened in Italy. No, they were hit very hard.  Its a group. SECRETARY MNUCHIN:today, for him to sign off on.  Weve had very good dis-really just good discussions.  Steve, I just want to say we have had  discussionswait, excuse me. One second, please. Weve had very good discussions with the airlines. Very good discussions.  I dont want to say that. Youll be hearing over the next few days.  And, Steve, do you want to talk about phase four? SECRETARY MNUCHIN: So, phase four, the President has talked about infrastructure for a long period of time. Weve talked aboutto the extent that the hospitals need more money because of the medical issues, well monitor that. We want to make sure there are incentives for restaurants, entertainmentpeople to get back to those types of things. So well be looking at, very specifically, provisions to stimulate parts of the economy. Some of them may be money issues. Some of them may be regulatory issues.  When you say my authoritythe Presidents authority. Not mine, because its not me.  This iswhen somebody is the President of the United States, the authority is total, and thats the way its got to be.  Its total. Its total.  And the governors know that.  The governors know that. No, you have  a couple of bands ofexcuse me. Excuse me. You have a couple   You have a couple of bands of Democrat governors, but they will agree to it. They will agree to it.  But the authority of the President of the United States, having to do with the subject were talking about, is total. Yeah, please, go ahead.  Go ahead, please.  At the right time.  And a very good question, actually. Well, Im going to have to take a look. I wouldnt say Italy is doing great right now, and I wouldnt say Spain is doing great right now. And we just heard that France is extending its stay-inside order, right? Their staytheyve extended itI just see thatand, I think, for a short period of time. But no, when theyre back. We want to do it very quickly, but we want to make sure everything is good. No, right now we have a very   Right now we have a very strong ban. Were going to keep it that way until they heal.  Well, I cant tell you that. I cant tell you that. I have to see: How are they doing? I mean, France just went for another two daysfor another two weeks. We have to see. Jon.  Well, Im not sure whoJon, Im not sure who really gave me advice on the ban. I think I took   I think I took my own advice on the ban. I dont know.  Okay.  I will and many other people also. But I will absolutely take their advice.  Please go ahead.  I dont think it would be likely because I think were not very far from being on the same page. Please.  Well, they have to do it. Look, theyre supposed to be doing it.  Yeah, I know. I know.  Well, theythey may need help, but   But theyre there. Theyre on ground. Theyve got local mayors, local representatives. They have people that do it.  And what we did last time is unprecedented. We literally rebuilt tests. Wewe rebuilt a whole industry because we inherited nothing. What we inherited from the previous administration was totally broken, which somebody should eventually say. Not only were the cupboards bare, as I say, but we inherited broken testing. Now we have great testing. I just left the top executives at Abbott. Who would have thought that would have happened, where they have such a great test as that? And, in fact, what Ill doI think, unless you have any further questions for the Secretary of the Treasurydo you have anybody for Steve? Anybody?  Is that for the Secretary of the Treasury or for me?  Because if its for me, we can wait.  We have to get him back to work, okay?  Well, we didnt want to do the Kennedy Center, just so you understand. And that that was donethe Democrats wanted it in. We didnt want that, but they wanted it in. And we had to agree in order to get something done for the workers. But we want this to be for the workers and for companies that employ the workers. Thats what were looking for. Were not looking for extraneous nonsense.  But are you talking about unemployment? Youre talking about the unemployment?  Sending it indirectly to the states?  We would have preferred that it was sent directly to the people. The Democrats wanted it to be sent through the unemployment system. And, you know, Ive talked to you about it: We have 40-year-old equipment in many of those systems. Theyre run by the state. But Im hearing theyre getting the money out anyway. SECRETARY MNUCHIN: So, somesome of them are, and some of the states arent, and we encourageyou know, were working with the states to try to update their computers, but its aits a long haul.  Okay? Thank you, Steve. SECRETARY MNUCHIN: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.  Phase four, Steve. Phase four. Come on, Steve.  Okay. So you know what were going to do? Were going to write up papers on this. Its not going to be necessary, because the governors need us one way or the other, because ultimately it comes with the federal government. That being said, were getting along very well with the governors, and I feel very certain that there wont be a problem. Yeah, please. Go ahead.  I havent asked anybody because I dontyou know why?  Because I dont have to. Go ahead, please.  Enough. Please.  Its nice of Governor Hogan, very much. We appreciate Governor Hogans statement.  Cuomo.  Which one? What did he say?  Well, theyre looking at things in phase four, where they haveyou know, where they talk about states, and theyre also talking about hospitals. Theyre talking about states who have been battered, and theyre also talking about hospitals. And were certainly willing to look at that.  You know, well see what we all come back with. But they are talking about states and theyre talking about hospitals. OAN.  The sale of what?  Well, I dont think thats going to happen. I think its very extreme. But shes doing it, and I think its going to be over a long way before we have to start thinking about it too much. It is strong. Its a very strong position to take. But theyre making a lot of progress in Michigan, so lets see how it all works.  Were going to be talking about that very soon. Im getting a full report. Im not happy with the World Health Organization. Im not happy with the World Trade Organization either. Weve been ripped off by everybody. And we havethis country, for so many years, has been ripped off by everybody, whether its a World Health or World Trade. And theyre likeI call them the Bobbsey Twins. Theyd look at our countryfor years and years, we had people that did nothing about it. Were doing a lot about it. So well have a report. And well alsowere also talking about the World Trade Organization. But weve made a lot of progress there. Were now winning cases for the first time, because they know Ill leave if we dont get treated fairly. This countryour countrywas at a point where we rarely, if ever, won the lawsuits within the World Trade Organization. But now were winning a lot of them, because they know Im notIm not playing games. We will pull out if we have to. We just won a 7-billion-dollar lawsuit, which was very nice.  Uh, yeah. I would say, by the end of the week, Im going to make a decision on that. Yeah. Theres a lot ofright now, theres a lot of things happening.  How do you know there are no consequences?  How do you know there are no consequences?  I wouldnt tell you. China will find out. Why would I tell you?  No, you started off by saying, Why are there no consequences?  How do you know there are no consequences?  Youre going to find out.  I wouldnt tell you. Youd probably be the last person on Earth Id tell.  Go ahead. Uh, yeah, please.  Well, make no mistake about it: In the long history of this country, the authority of the President of the United States during national emergencies is unquestionably plenary. And you can look back through times of war and other national emergencies. And as the President said, well happily brief that. But in the days ahead, what the President has charged us to do is to work with our health experts. Were going to bring together an extraordinary group of American business leaders to counsel the President. And then, working with the CDC, were going to produce new guidelines, based upon the data, for every state and territory in this nation. Were going to give them guidance. And, as the President has indicated, well continue to respect the leadership and partnership that we forge with every governor in America. But this is an unprecedented time. But I have to tell you: When you look at the factdespite the heartbreaking loss of more than 22,000 Americanswhen you look at the fact of what the health experts told us this could be, I think I only can feel a sense of gratitude to the American people, gratitude to the extraordinary team that has counseled this President, the steps that President Trump has taken, the policies that governors have implemented all across America. I mean, we were discussing today, at the task force, that when you look at the European Union as a whole, they have nearly three times the mortality rate that the United States of America has today. And that is a tribute to our extraordinary healthcare workers, their dedication, their tireless work. But its also a tribute to the fact that the American people put into practice the mitigation efforts that the President counseled the nation to do on the advice of our best scientists, now more than a month ago, and our hospitals were not overwhelmed and are not overwhelmed at this hour. And I have to tell you that standing here today, I couldnt be more proud to stand alongside this President and to be a part of this team that has served the American people during this challenging hour. And I just say to you: To every American looking on, as we see the numbers leveling and maybe even beginning to go down, I just encourage you to keep doing what youre doing. Because of the sacrifices that Americans and American families have made through these mitigation efforts, youre saving lives and youre seeing our nation through this time.  Go ahead.  Well, you dont know that. You dont know that. THE VICE PRESIDENT: Butbut the Presidentthe President will be   You dont know that. Im sorry. THE VICE PRESIDENT: Im sorry, I didnt hear your question.  You dont know that. No, you made a statement. You dont know that. THE VICE PRESIDENT: I didnt hear yourI didnt hear your statement. Im sorry.  And we wouldand we would like to have their cooperation. And we are going to have their cooperation. They will cooperate perfectly. Watch. THE VICE PRESIDENT: Iand let me just affirm what the President said. We heard it again today in what I think was our ninth conference call with governors is: I think every American would be proud to see the partnership that this President has forged with governors across the country. I mean, it is an extraordinary statement. And youll see some data when Admiral Polowczyk gets up in just a few moments, but the flow of resources from around the world that weve moved into areas that have faced challengesI mean, this President has directed us to ensure that every state has what they need, when they need it. And the spirit that I heard again from Republicans and Democrat governors today was reflective of that partnership. And as we move forward to the Presidents goal of reopening America, we expect the same kind of partnership in the interest of the nation.  All right, go ahead, with the face mask. Go ahead.  Barely.  I hear you well, actually.  Well, were looking at that certainly. I heard that complaint, but the mayor seems to be very happy with everything weve done. THE VICE PRESIDENT: She was on today.  I mean, shes actuallyand she was on today, saying very good things. Okay, yeah. Go ahead in the back.  It does. And I hope that wont happen. I certainly hope that wont happen, but it does weigh on my mind. Okay, in the back, go ahead. You had one. Go ahead.  Go ahead, please.  China has their own difficulties. We have a relationship with China thatwere not happy with certain things that happened over the last period of time, as you know, and Ive been very explicit on that. But we know all about that. And, no, China isweve seen what they did. Weve seen many other things that theyve done, both pro and con. And well be just fine.  I dont want to say that, but were going to be putting out guidelines and recommendations fairly quickly. In a few days.  Im not going to say. But, look, certain states are doing very well. Certain big parts of the country are doing very well. Theyre doing, really, very well. And so were going to be putting out recommendations and guidelines very soon. Steve?  Well, youre going to see. II dont want to tell you now, but right now we have a very strong indication that we know, pretty muchwe have some good ideas. I also do want to getI want to havewell have video conference or at least a conference call with a lot of very good people, having to do with certain fields, whether its energy or whether its entertainment and restaurants, et cetera, et cetera. We have to get people back into restaurants. We have to do what we have to do. Whether its deductibility or not, well see, but it should be deductibility. Youll get them back so fast. I mean, they used to have deductibility. The restaurant business, itit was one of the hot businesses. And then they ended it a long time ago, many years ago. But we may need that to get people back into the restaurants. Please.  Absentee ballot, are you talking about? Absentee ballot?  Well, I dont know what she did. I mean, I didnt see that. When did that happen? Today?  Well, I wish her luck. I wish her a lot of luck. Please, go ahead.  We discussed many things. We did discuss China. We discussed many different things, but weit was primarily a call on the oil, as you can imagine. And they were very helpful in getting a stabilization price, a stabilization of the number of barrels. I think the number is going to be closer to 20maybe 15, but closer to 20 than it is going to be to 10. And I think it was a very important call. I also spoke with the King of Saudi Arabia and that was a very important call. And the bottom nine is OPEC Plus. Its called OPEC Plus because there are other states also, other nations. We came to a very good agreement. Please.  Go ahead.  I would say mostly we were talking about China. We were talking about their borders. And were talking about our borders a little bitour borders with Mexico. Because, as you know, Mexico is a big part of the deal. And Mexico reallyit was very complex from the standpoint of Mexico. It was not an easy deal for Mexico. And the Presidentwe appreciated a certain amount of flexibility. But we talked about borders, we talked about China, we talked about Mexico.  Well, I mean, Iwe did talk about the arms. Yes, we did. That was a very important part of the call actually. Yeah, good point. Please.  Well, they have to get the material. You know, the governors have to get the material.  Now, if they cant get it, theyre going to see us.  Im talking about the local governments. Im talking about governors have to get the material. Now, they have machines. In fact, wewere going to go intoId ask Mike to go into it as soon as I leave. They have very powerful machines that they dont know they even have. Im not talking about Abbott; Im talking about the governors. They have machines that are used for this   You know what Im talk-do you know what Im referring to?  Very big, very powerful machines where, in a certain states case, theyre only using 10 percent of their capacity and they didnt know it. That happens to be Illinois. Jon, please.  What do you think the answer to that is? THE VICE PRESIDENT: Were rapidlywere rapidly increasing the numbers, Mr. President.  Rapidly increasing the numbers. THE VICE PRESIDENT: And Deb will speak to ( ).  Rapidly increases. Well, pretty quickly.  Well, you have other machines where they can really work.  And a lot of the states have the big machines that can do a lot. They didnt even know they had them. They didnt even know that they had them. And Mike is going to be talking about that.  Yeah. Google and Apple.  You mean Google and Apple combination.  No. A lot of people dont like it from the standpoint of constitutional rights. I mean, a lot of people dont like it and some people think its great. No, they are working on that, as I understand.  Yeah, no, I know that. I know that. I know.  Thats right. No, Google is looking at it, but Google is also working with Apple or looking at something. We have the greatest companies in the world looking at things that, in a year from now, everything that were looking at now is going to be obsolete. Thats how good it is. We have things happening that are unbelievable. I saw a presentation today that I cant talk about yet, but its incredible. Plus, I think theyre doingTonyI think theyre doing very well in the vaccines. Theyre working hard on the vaccines and I think youll have an answer for vaccines. I believe that theres some great things coming out with respect to that. Now you need a testing period, but youre going to have some great things. Please.  No, no. This isthis is the Google and Apple. I dont know if its a partnership or what, but theyre working on some   Theyre working on more than one element. Theyre working on a couple of different things, Google and Apple. Google is also working on something, as you know, having to do with testing. I believe theyre doing that in a singular fashion.  Okay.  Yeah. Yeah.  I know.  Thats right.  Well, its an amazing thing, but a lot of people have some very big constitutional problems with it. You know that. Its an amazing thing and it would beactually, as you know, other countries are thinking about using something similar but not as good.  I hear Singapore is. Singapore is. No, Singapore had a little bit of a setback because they had a they had a break. You know that, andbut theyll take care of it. I knowI know the folks in Singapore. Theyre doing a great job and theyre going to put it back very quickly. But Singapore and other countries are looking at other things, and some countries are doing other things.  Well, I dont want to get into that because we have a whole constitutional thing. We have more of a constitutional problem than a mechanical problem, but we will be making a determination on that. Thats something were going to be discussing with a lot of people over the next four weeks. That would be a very accurate way of doing it, but a lot of people have a problem with it. Yeah, please. Go ahead.  Well, its moving along. I think I can speak because II have to leave. Moving along quickly, moving along well. Its a test thats been going along for many, many years, except now we have very modern, very incredible versions of it. But thats moving on. The antibody test havemoving along very well. Okay, anymore COVID-19? COVID-19? Yeah, Steve.  Well, thats going through the Navy, as I understand it. The Navy is going to be making decisions on all of that. And they had a break inI dont think the ship should have been stopping in Vietnam when you have a pandemic, to be honest with you. You know, I dont think the captain should have been writing letters. Hes not Ernest Hemingway, as I said before, and he shouldnt have been writing letters. And I dont thinkI dont know who gave the orders to stop in Vietnam. But they stopped in Vietnam and all of a sudden they get on, and now you have over 500 sailors andand people on the ship that are affected. I dont know whose idea that was, but that wasnt such a good idea in the middle of a pandemic. Yes, please. Jon. Go ahead, Jon.  Nothing changed it. No, no, I know exactly what youre going to say. Nothing changed it. The fact that I want to rely on states or maybe will or maybe have, and the fact that weve gotten onthats one thing. The fact that I dont want to use the power is another thing. Look   Yes, Constitution.  Constitutionally. You can look at constitutionally. You can look at federalism. You can look at it any different way. Jon, the fact that I dont want to exert my power is much different. We have the power. You asked, Does the federal government have the power? The federal government has absolute power. It has the power. As to whether or not Ill use that power, well see. I would rather   Jon, I would rather work with the states, because I like going down to a local government. Thats why withI guess its now seven states not eight thatbecause South Carolina didyou know, they went away from what we discussed the last time. So thats why I looked at the individual states; theyre doing a very good job. Theyre really doing a very good job. Id rather have them make the decision. Now, the fact that Id rather havethats fine. But I have the absolute right to do if I want to. I may not want to. We have a very good relationship. Now, well see what happens. If you notice, the few states youre talking about, theyre all with Democrat governors. But if governors are doing a good job and they control it betterbecause you dont have somebody in Washington saying, Set up a testing site in the parking lot of a Walmart. And were in Washington and theyre in a state thats very far away. Thats reallyit should be and it should have always been. And Ive always said it was. But the relationship we have now with the states and governors is very good. And well be announcing, over the next very short period of time, exactly what were going to be doing. Okay, a couple of more. Go ahead.  Well, nobody has called about coronavirus, aboutfrom their standpoint. Look, they had the H1N1, which is swine flu, and that was a big failure. That was a tremendous failure. They had a lot of failures. And you take a look at whatyou take a look at the history. And, you know, 17,000 people died. And you talk about late? They were so latethey were late like it never even existed. That was athat was a big problem. Caused a lot of other people a big problem too. So, you know, if Joe Biden would like a briefing, Id certainly get him a briefing. I dont know what hed do with it. Yeah, please.  No.  No, theyre not. No.  Yeah. Yes, go ahead, please.  Well, you have Mikes task force, which is the White House Task Force, which really brought us up to this point brilliantly, I must say. Dealt with governors and dealt with governors all the way through. And I was on many of those calls. And every call got better and better and better. It was hostile at the beginning. By the time we finishedI mean, todays call was a very good call, a very friendly call. I think everyone is online. And again, you dont have anybody driving you crazy, saying theyre not getting ventilators, theyre not getting all of the different things, they need more beds. They have a lot of beds right now.  And we always errand I think its important for you knowwe always erred on the sake of Give them more. Even when we didnt thinkwe didnt think New York needed the beds that they were asking for. We didnt think they needed the ventilators that they asked for. And we were right. Now, on ventilators, were ready to march. I told you this: Were ready to march. We have 10,000 ventilators. Were ready to move them anywhere in the country when we need them, if we need them. Were also building a lot of ventilators, and thats going to be used at some point, I believe. You know were going to have stockpiles, including state stockpiles if they want to work out some kind of an arrangement with us. But were also going to help other countries, whether its Italy, or Spain, or otherFrance is having a big problem. They all desperately needGermany toothey need ventilators. So were going to have a lot of ventilators. We have a lotyou heard the numberswe have a lot coming next week. Next week, we have a tremendous amount coming. Okay, final question. Steve.  No. Then we havein addition to that, we have a number of committees. Well have a transportation committee. Were going to have a manufacturing committee. Youll see it tomorrow. Were also having a religious leaders committee. We have a great group of religious leaders. Were having committees with religious leaders. Youve been seeing whats going on with the churches, and all of that. And were going to have a faith leaders committee. And so we havewere going to have a few committees. Ill call them committees, and then ultimately were going to make decisions. So were going to make decisions fairly quickly, and I think theyre going to be the correct decision. I hope so. Steve.  Soon. Soon. And they already know what I want.  And so, when we formwhen you say form, I dont have to give them instructions. These are very sophisticated people. These are the best people in their fields. So I dont have to say, Gee, letswe just met and were going to meet in two weeks and heres what were I said, Heres what I want. Weve already told them. And theyre the  the best names in the various businesses and professions and religions. I mean, theyrethese are the greatest names. The people that, I think, probably know the best. So, weve called them and were going to be speaking to them very soon. And we want them to haveif its questions, or statements, we want them to have that for us. And we will have either a response, or maybeI mean, ideally were going to be learning from them. And well be able to do that and put themput everything we learned from those calls into our new guidelines. So were going to have new guidelines coming soon. I think its going to be very good. I think its going to be very smooth. And I hope its going to be very safe. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.  Stanley Chera is a friend of mine for a long time. Hes a great real estate personpassed away. Was a great real estate person. Great. Great. Sort of a legend in New York real estate. He called me a couple of weeks ago, said he tested positive. Stanley is in his early- to mid-80s, I guess. And Stanley went to the hospital and he never came out. He went into a coma. He was unconscious for a long period of time and he never made it. A great man. He leftvery charitable, really a great philanthropist. A very, very successful person in Manhattan, in the real estate business. So I got to know him a lot. He was so excited when his friend from New York became the President of the United States. He was likelike a young boy. And he was not a young boy, but he was like a young boy. He was so excited. He thought wed do such a good job and he was so happy. And hehe was very proud of what weve done in this administration. But he was tested positive, and unfortunately hehe didnt make it. Its a veryto me, its a very sad thing. Thank you all very much. Thank you."
"Okay. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you. A big day today at the White House. All of American society is engaged and mobilized in the war against the invisible enemy. While we must remain vigilant, it is clear that our aggressive strategy is workingand very strongly working, I might add. New cases are declining throughout the New York metropolitan area. Cases in the Detroit and Denver metro areas are flat. Washington, D.C.; Baltimore; Philadelphia; and St. Louis are showing great signs of progress, and new cases in Houston and New Orleans are declining. The battle continues, but the data suggests that nationwide we have passed the peak on new cases. Hopefully that will continue and we will continue to make great progress. These encouraging developments have put us in a very strong position to finalize guidelines for states on reopening the country, which well be announcing. Were going to be talking about that tomorrow. Well be having a news conference tomorrow sometime during the afternoon. Were going to be announcing guidelines, and well be talking about various states. And its very exciting. Its been a horrible time to see such death and destruction, especially when you come out of what was the greatest economy in the history of the world. The greatest. Theres never been an economy like what we had produced, but well produce it again. And I think well produce it again very fast. The medical and healthcare advances weve made are critical to our continued progress. Weve rapidly developed the most expansive and accurate testing system anywhere in the world and have completed more than 3.3 million tests. To date, we have authorized 48 separate coronavirus tests, and the FDA is working with 300 companies and labs to widen our capacity still further. Today, Abbott Labs announced that it has developed an antibody test that will determine if someone has been previously infected with the coronavirus and potentially developed immunity. Its a great test. The company says these tests could be available to screen up to 20 million people in a matter of weeks. My administration is also distributing vast amounts of medical supplies to states across the country through Project Air Bridge, which has been an amazing success. We have completed 44 flightsand these are flights of very, very large airplanes, massive cargo planes44 flights of critical supplies as of today and an additional 56 flights scheduled in the near future. We have some very brilliant people working on this. Its logistically incredible what theyve done. And weve also been working on this with the military. And these people have beenthe genius of all of them together, it has been incredible to watch. In total, through all channels, the federal government has developed and delivered 39.4 million N95 masks, 431 million gloves, 57 million surgical masks, and 10.2 million gowns. We ordered 500 million masks, and theyll be coming shortly. And weve distributed 100 million masks. Following our use of the Defense Production Act, GM announced that its first ventilators come off the assembly line in Kokomo, Indianaa great place. They did it in 11 days, from start to finish, a remarkable testament to the ingenuity of the American worker. GM will ship over 600 ventilators this month alone, with thousands more to come. And we have other companies doing something similar. And I think they said that theres a brief clip that we have of General Motors, sent to us by General Motors. And I think they might be wanting to play that for your benefit. Please. ( ) I know you got a little bit nervous when you saw there was a clip about ready to be played, but that was sent to us by General Motors, and we thought it would be a good one to play. Its amazing. Itsyou know, what theyve done in a very, very short period of time. Theyre now making thousands of ventilators, and theyre coming out of the factory very rapidly, at a clip that nobody can even believe. But we have others also doing it. And these are very high-grade ventilators. So were helping a lot of people. And at this moment, nobody needs them. We have to remember, during the surge, nobody has needed him for weeks now. But well have them for stockpiles, and very importantly, were going to have them for other countries because nobody is able to do things like we can do. And were going to be able to help other countries that are having tremendous problems, to put it mildly. My administration is using every available authority to accelerate the development, study, and delivery of therapiesso important, therapiestreatments, and ultimately, what we want to come up with is a safe vaccine. But frankly, the therapies, to me, are the most important because it takes care of people right now. The vaccines have to be tested, so it takes a longer period of time. But we have some great potential therapies already, and well see how theyre working. Well be able to report on that, I think, over the next week or two. Tremendous progress has been made. At least 35 clinical trials of promising therapies are now underway. So 35 different genius companies. If you look at AIDS, if you look at Ebola, if you look at so many things, theyve come up with the answers to so many things, you wouldnt have believed it. And were very honored to be working with them. They include antivirals, and alsoand theysomething which is incredible: It keeps the virus from multiplying. A mechanism that keeps the virus from multiplying. Immune therapies that prevent the immune system from overreaching to the virus. And convalescent plasma treatments that use antibodies from the blood of recovered patients. And we have a lot of patients who recover, and theyre so happy to have recovered that the first thing they do is say, We want to give our blood. And they do that. Its incredible. We have thousands of people that are doing that. They recover and they feel they have an obligation because theyve gotten such great care. And a lot of them didnt think they were going to make it. As the entire U.S. government works to combat the global pandemic, it is absolutely essential that the key positions at relevant federal agencies are fully staffed. And were not allowing that to take place through our Congress. Theyre just nottheyre just not giving it to us. We have many, many positions that are unstaffed because we cant get the approvals. The Democrats are holding us up. We cannot get approval. Weve gotten judges because we go through the process. I guess were up to 448 federal judges. And that, weve gotten because we focus on it; we take the maximum time. Because no matter who the judge is, they take vast numbers of days and hours to approve, and it leaves no time left for others. Very unfair system. If a judge is going to be approved in one hour, in one session, it doesnt mattertheyll take the maximum number of hours and daysyoure talking about daysto get one judge approved. And were close to 250 judges, but because of the way theyre doing it, theres no time for anybody else. And many of these people have been waiting for two and a half years. We have a couple that have been waiting for longer than that. There are currently 129 nominees stuck in the Senate because of partisan obstruction. Many are nominated for vacancies that must be filled to assist with the coronavirus crisis and the resulting economic challenges. And Ive read, over the last couple of years, Well, I didnt fill positions. I dont fill positionsin some cases, we dont need the position, and Im all for that. But in many cases, you do, but we cant get them approved by the Democrats. They wont release them. The positions include the Director of National Intelligence, two members of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, the Assistant Secretary of Treasury for Financial Markets of the United States, and the Undersecretary of Agriculture responsible for administering food security programs. And Sonny Perdue, whos going to be speaking today, is saying, Please, can I have this man, can I have this particular person approved as soon as possible? Hes been telling me that for a long time, and the Democrats wont allow it to happen. Again, every single judge, every nominee we have goes through maximum, or at least they go through a long process. So it takes days and days, and theres no time left. And its just a concerted effort to make life difficult. An example is Michael Pack. Hes my nominee for the CEO of the Broadcasking Broadcasting Board of Governors. And hes been stuck in committee for two years, preventing us from managing the Voice of America. Very important. And if you heard whats coming out of the Voice of America, its disgusting. Whatthings they say are disgusting toward our country. And Michael Pack would get in and hed do a great job, but hes been waiting now for two years. Cant get him approved. The senators left Washington until at least May 4th. The Constitution provides a mechanism for the President to fill positions in such circumstancesthe recess appointment, its calledthe Senates practice of dabbling into so-called pro forma sessions where no one is even there. It has prevented me from using the constitutional authority that were givingthat were given under the recess provisions. The Senate should either fulfill its duty and vote on my nominees or it should formally adjourn so that I can make recess appointments. We have a tremendous number of people that have to come into governmentand now more so than ever before, because of the virus and the problem. We have to do it, and we have to do whatever we have to do. Theyve made it very, very difficult to run government. I dont think any administration has done anywhere near what weve done in three and a half years. But every blockevery week, they put up roadblocks, whether its Russia, Russia, Russia, or whether its impeachment hoax, or whatever it may be. Its always roadblocks and a waste of time. If the House will not agree to that adjournment, I will exercise my constitutional authority to adjourn both chambers of Congress. The current practice of leaving town while conducting phony pro forma sessions is a dereliction of duty that the American people cannot afford during this crisis. It is a scam, what they do. Its a scam, and everybody knows it. And its been that way for a long time. And perhaps its never done beforeits never been done before; nobody is even sure if it has. But were going to do it. We need these people here. We need people for this crisis, and we dont want to play any more political games. Ive been waiting for two and a half years, three years, for some of these people. And theyre great people. They left law firms. They left jobs. They gave up everything to do it. And theyve been waiting for three years, two and a half years, two years, one year to get approved. Its ridiculous. And everyone knows theyre going to be approved. But theres only so many hours in the day, when you go through judges and you go through a lengthy hearings on judges that they know should be approved immediately. And they could do it in one session, oneand they could do it in one hour. And instead, it takes them many days. In order to advance the health and security of our nation and all nations, as we announced yesterday, the U.S. government has put a hold on funding to the WHOWorld Health Organizationpending a review of the organizations cover-up and mismanagement of the coronavirus outbreak. Over the objections of the WHO, we took decisive action and early lifesaving action to suspend travel from China. They didnt want to do it. They were angry that we did it. It was early on. They were angry that we did it. Took them a long time to realize what was going on, but I have a feeling they know exactly what was going on. Tragically, other nations put their trust in the WHO and they didnt do any form of ban. And you see what happened to Italy. You see what happened to Spain. You see what happened to France. WHOs guidance had failed to control their borders at a very crucial phase, quickly unleashing the contagion around the world. That was a horrible, tragic mistakeor perhaps they knew. Im sure they didnt know the gravity of it, but perhaps they knew. Because if they knew the gravity, that would be an even worse offense. To ease the economic pain of millions of American families, weve now processed $300 billion in loans to more than 1 million small businesses through the Paycheck Protection Program. This action has saved millions of American jobs. Its been an incredible success. And they want to replenish it now, but, again, the Democrats dont want to do that. This is money that goes to the workers of our country. Phase one was $350 billion dollars. And now phase two, we want to do $250 billion. This goes to workers and it goes to small businesses so we can save all the small businesses around our nation. Mike McFarland from Nebraska recently said this historic relief has been a godsend for his small factory, and the 136 Americans who work there. He saved those jobs. Another small business owner, Tim Miller from Oklahoma, called the program a total lifesaver for his auto-repair shops four employees. Stories like these underscore why Congress must replenish the Paycheck Protection Program immediately. The Republicans want to do it; they want to do it immediately. They want to do it now. And the Democrats are stopping it. A short time ago, CDC issued public health guidelines for critical industries. In a few moments, Agricultural Secretary Sonny Perdue will elaborate on how these guidelines apply to our nations dedicated workers in the food processing professionbecause its a profession. Its incredible what they do: food processing. And theyre keeping our grocery stores full. The shelves are not bare like the shelves that I inherited when we took over the stockpilethe medical stockpile, where the shelves were bare. The cupboard was bare, I say. Tomorrow, Ill also be leading a call with elected officials who will consult with my administration as we work to restore our economy to full speed. And we really think, with all of the stimulus and all of the pent-up demand, were going to have an economy that really comes back quickly. And wed like to see it more than match what we had before. What we had before was a miracle. And we think this is going to be even more than a miracle. Were going to do it because we have the greatest people in the world. Well also be speaking to Americas governors tomorrow and then well be announcing exactly whats happening. You already know well be opening up statessome states much sooner than others. And we think some of the states can actually open up before the deadline of May 1st. And I think that that will be a very exciting time indeed. Governors are looking forwardtheyre chomping at the bit to get going. Again, not all states are the same. Theyre very different. Some are having very little problems. Some have done such a good job that they have very little problem and theyre ready to go. So, Vice President Pence and I will be speaking with the governors tomorrow. Well be discussing procedures. Today, I spoke with the leaders of many of our nations most renowned companies and organizations on how to achieve the full resurgence of the American economy. My discussions included top leaders in health and healthcare, transportation technology, financial services, food, beverages, hospitality, real estate, retail, agriculture, construction, energy, labor, manufacturing, and sports industries. We want to get our country open again. We want to have our sports leagues open. You want to watch sports. Its important. We miss sports. We miss everything. We want to get back. These experts and innovators provided extremely productive feedback on how to safely reboot our economy. They gave us a lot of great ideas. We spoke to a lot of very, very smart peoplethe highest of the high-tech. The level of I Thank you very much. Thank you, Doctor. Sonny, please. SECRETARY PERDUE: Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity to be here with you today and toI want you to know its an honor to represent you in leading the Department of Agriculture and represent the constituency who are crucial in maintaining our nations food security, enabling us to keep food on the table of our American familiesnot only just food, but wholesome and safe food as well. Id like to start my remarks today by echoing what my colleagues at the CDC have been saying regarding the health and safety of our essential employees across the United States. CDC has provided strategies there that aimed at helping our most critical workers, both in healthcare and food processing, to quickly and safely return to work after potential exposure to COVID-19, provided those workers are symptom-free. And this guidance will help these critical industries in the food sector provideto protect the health and safety of essential workers, while keeping critical functions working throughout the COVID-19 response. As we know, any employee who develops symptoms while on the job should go home immediately. And the interim guidance is in line with CDC recommendations for healthcare workers, caring for those sick with COVID-19. So we appreciate the dedication and commitment of all the brave men and workingwomen working to keep their communities fed. And we will continue to work with the CDC to keep those individuals as safe as possible during these challenging times. In that vein, theres been a lot happening this week, as COVID-19 is impacting food-processing facilities, as you know. For Americans who bemay be worried about access to good food because of this, I want to assure you: The American food supply is strong, resilient, and safe. And in fact, our food supply chain has shown tremendous agility in shifting production and logistics so suddenly from restaurant and institutional settings to retail settings. To all the employers out there in this sector: Its critical that you follow CDC guidelines and guidance and best practices to keep all of your employees and people safe and healthy. To employees and local public health officials advising them: The CDC has issued guidelines on how to mitigate a situation if you have a positive case in one of your facilities. We need our local health authorities and our state health authorities to do everything they can to balance the demand of keeping our facilities operational and our critical industries going, while at the same time keeping the health and safety of employees as a top priority, as well as our communities. So I want to also take this time to thank all of our critical, essential food supply chain workers. The entire country is counting on these patriotic individuals, by doing the work in our food supply chain. These dedicated workers include, obviously, farmers and producers, but also processers, truckers, and grocery store workers, as you know. America is depending on what you havethe food we need to feed our familiesand youre the ones who are making that happen. Thank you. As an entire nation, were truly thankful for the work youre doing, and we recognize that you are the true patriotic heroes during this national emergency, along with our healthcare workers. So, before I sign off here, Mr. President, I want to remind you and all of us of one more thing: In the United States, we have plenty of food for all of our citizens. I want to be clear: The bare store shelves that you may see in some cities in the country are a demand issue, not a supply issue. The way food is prepared and packaged to be sold in a restaurant or a school is significantly different than the way its packaged for you to buy in the grocery store. Our supply chain is sophisticated, efficient, integrated, and synchronized, and its taken us a few days to relocate the misalignment between institutional settings and grocery settings. But that does not mean that we dont have enough food in this country to feed the American people. You might think of it as an interstate when its flowing in along well, and you have a crash in one placeit backs up. And thats whats happening in the food supply chain. But were working through that. And all thisthrough all this, our food supply chain has proven to be very resilient, just like American people. To the extent we have challenges, we have and continue toto work through it all together. And we can and we will get through this with a whole-of-America approach, Mr. Presidentthe critical partnership between state and local health officials, management of companies, and the employees. And we will meet any challenges we face by working together. Thank you, sir, for the opportunity.  Thank you very much. And before the Vice President comes up, I just wanted to say, speaking of Sonny, China has paid us billions of dollarsmany, many billions of dollarsin tariffs, which weve distributedsome to the farmers, because they were targeted. We have many billions of dollars being held by Sonny. And Ive told him to distribute much of that money to the farmers. Our farmers were targeted and now theyre benefiting by the amount that they were targeted. And we are very honored to do that. And, Sonny, youre going to start that process very soon. Youll let the farmers know. Nobody can take advantage of our farmers. So we have a lot of money that weve taken in from China. Were going to be distributing that money fromfrom Sonny to the farmers. And there is tremendous money over and above that. That money was paid directly into the Treasury of the United States. This has never happened to China before. They never gave us 10 cents. Now theyre paying us billions of dollars and we appreciate it. So thank you very much, Sonny. Great job. Please. Mike, please. THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today. It was reported to us that weve conducted and completed 3,324,000 tests across the nation. More than 619,000 Americans have tested positive. But as you reflected yesterday when we welcomed coronavirus survivors here to the White House from across the country, some more than 45,000 Americans have fully recovered. Sadly, we mourn the loss of more than 27,000 of ourour countrymen. Our hearts are with their families and with the families of all of those that continue to struggle with the serious consequences of this illness. But as Dr. Birx just reflected, despite the heartbreaking losses, were getting there, America. Because of the efforts of people all across this country to put into practice the Presidents Coronavirus Guidelines, because of their adherence to the direction of state and local authorities, as Dr. Birx just reflected, wewe see great signs of progress from the West Coast to the East Coast. President Trump has directed our team to develop new guidelines that will be presented tomorrow to our nations governors andand released to the American people thereafter. The American people will be encouraged to know that, as we stand here today, 24 percent of the counties of this country have no reported coronavirus cases. In fact, half of the states in America have less than 2,500 cases per state. This is a great tribute to the efforts by the people of those communities. But as the President suggested, when we unveil the guidelines that the team has been working to present tomorrow to our nations governors, were going to reflect on the fact that, as the President said, there will be areas of the country that will require continued mitigation and strong efforts. And there will be other areas of the country that will bebe given guidance for greater flexibility, and the President has so directed our team. When we think of more than 619,000 Americans having tested positive, more than 45,000 having recovered, we wanted to announce today that the FDA recently announced efforts to facilitate the development and access to convalescent plasma, Mr. President. Youve spoken about this. People who have recovered from the coronavirus have antibodies in your bloodstream that can attack the virus. The Mayo Clinic today is working with the Red Cross to make sure that coronavirus patients have access to the convalescent plasma treatments, and over 1,000 institutions across America have already joined this program. And we want to urge every American who has recovered from the coronavirus for at least twoand preferably four weeks, to contact your local blood or plasma donation center and arrange to donate. Its one more way that the American people can do their part and step forward. And thousands have already done so, and we know that tens of thousands will join them. On the subject of suppliesMr. President, Ill be very brief because you detailed a great amount. As the President mentioned, the air bridge has completed 44 flights. Fifty-six more are scheduled. But on the subject of facial masks, which are so important for the protection of critical infrastructure, Im pleased to report that the average daily delivery through the commercial network through our air bridge is 22 million facial masks coming into the marketplace. The average inventory in the network over a seven-day period is 80 million masks. And FEMA is actually working, as we speak, to move facial masks to priority infrastructure: food supply, first responders. Therell be 6.5 million masks that go out before the end of this week, an additional 20 million before April the 20th, and then well be adding 6.5 million each and every week. At that the Presidents direction, were going to ensure that all of those that work in food supply, all of those first responders have access to masks. And were increasing those every day. Finally, I know I speak for the President when I say how proud we are of all of our healthcare workers across the country, and how proud we are of the men and women in uniformour medical professionals who have been deployed across the nation, literally by the thousands. In fact, as we stand here today, 576 doctors, nurses, and other military medical professionals have been deployed to 13 hospitals across the nation: 10 in New York, and 1 in Connecticut, Texas, and Louisiana each. And, as the President reflected a few days ago, because we did not have thehappily, did not have the demand on the Javits Center and on the Comfort in New York City, at the Presidents direction, we have deployed doctors and nurses from those two facilities to hospitals. In fact, the President and I were just speaking to Mayor de Blasio just before we came out, and he expressed his great admiration and appreciation for the relief that these medical military personnel have provided to incredibly dedicated people in our hospitals. Two hundred and fifty-eight medical personnel just yesterday were deployed off the ship and out of the Javits Center into New York. With that, Mr. President, Ill step aside. But its remarkable to think of all that weve accomplished over the last month since you first issued the Presidential Guidelines for America. The truth is, because of what the American people have done over the last 30 days, we are slowing the spread. We are ensuring that every American family would have access to the healthcare that wed want any member of our family to havewith the greatest healthcare professionals in the world. Were saving lives and were healing our land. And so we want to thank the American people for all you have done. And tomorrow, well be presenting a new guidance to the governors of this country about how we build on our progress and reopen America in a safe and responsible way. Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you, Mike. Great. Thank you, Mike.  Steve, please.  Very simple: If they dont act on getting these people approved that we need because of thewe need them anyway, but we especially need now because of the pandemicwe are going to do something that will be something Id prefer not doing, but which I should do and I will do if I have to. Kaitlan, go ahead.  Sure.  Its what I want too. And we have great tests. And we want the states to administer these tests, for the most part. But were standing behind them. We have great tests. Weve done more testing now than any country, as you know, in the world, by far. We have the best tests of any country in the world. Nobody havehas the quality of tests, theif you look at Abbott, what theyve come up with in a short period of time. Theyve been incredible. Roche has been incredible. We have the best tests in the world. And we will be working very much with the governors of the states. We want them to do it. Were not going to be running a parking lot in Arkansas. Were not going to be running a parking lot, where you have a Walmartwhich has been great, by the way; Walmart has done a fantastic jobbut where you have a testing center and running that from Washington, D.C. The states are much better equipped to do it. But well be working with the states. Were standing behind the states. Were going to work very closely with the governors, in terms of thatgetting additional equipment. It used to be three, four weeks agotwo weeks ago, Can we get more ventilators? More ventilators, right? And we got them ventilators, and you dont hear that anymore. Its been pretty amazing, what weve been able to do. Yeah. Go ahead, Jon.  Well, I think the companies will determine that, and the governors will determine that, and the federal government will de-and if were not happy, well take very strong action against a state or a governor. If were not happy with the job a governor is doing, well let them know about it. And, as you know, we have very strong action we can take, including a closedown, but we dont want to do that. Were working with the governors and were working closely with the governors. The relationship has been very good. The Vice President has had a lot of conversations over the last two weeks with either 50 or almost 50 governors on every conversation. And theyve been really positive conversations.  Well, we have the right to do whatever we want. But we wouldnt do that. But, no, we would have the right to close down what theyre doing if we want to do that. But we dont want to do that   and I dont think therell be any reason to do that, but we have the right to do that. Steve? Go ahead. Go ahead.  Well, I dont know too much about it, but I understand my name is there. I dont know where theyre going, how theyre going. I do understand its not delaying anything. And Im satisfied with that. I dontI dont imagine its a big deal. Im sure people will be very happy to get a big, fat, beautiful check and my name is on it. Yeah. Go ahead, please.  Go ahead, please. Please.  Please. Please. Go ahead.  Well, the governors can control that flow, as an example. In fact, I just saw, a little while ago, it was reported that certain borders are being controlled already by states. Theyre starting to take control of their borders, which is good. So theyll be controlling. They may do testing for people wanting to come in; Id read that about Rhode Island. So they have to watch it. They have to be very careful. Yeah, please. In the back.  So our relationship with Canada is very good. Well talk about that. It will be one of the early borders to be released. Canada is doing well. Were doing well. Well see. But at some point, well be doing that. In the meantime, nations that are heavily infectedwe have a lot of nations that are heavily infected. Some are getting better. Some are still on the way up, unfortunately. Were keeping very strong borders with those nations. But with Canada, we are talking about different things. Yeah, please.  Well, all were doing is looking at the numbers, were looking at our graphs, were looking at our models. Were getting a great response from Deborah and from Tony and from many of the professionals that are working. We have great professionals working with us. And, I think, based on that, werewere doing very well. Based on that, it looks like were headed absolutely in the right direction. But some states are looking at other states, and theyre saying, I cant imagine what theyre going throughbecause theyre not in that position. Theyre in very good shape. I would say that we have 20 states, at least, but you really have 29 that are in extremely good shape. You have others that are getting much better. And I think, with almost a few exceptions, you have every state that is either doing better or on the way to doing better. Yeah, please.  Yeah, go ahead.  Go ahead.  Well, it isitslook, its been a very partisan government for a long period of time, not just this administration. You can go back into the last two administrations; youve seen a lot of partisanship. And even now, you would think that we wouldnt have. As an example, with the Paycheck Plan, thats going so well. Its so smooth, so beautiful, almost without a hitch. All of that money is being distributed to small businesses. Theyre giving it to their employees. Its keeping them ready, viable. So when we openand now, its been so good that its almost depleted and we want to replenish it, and we cant get the Democrats to approve it. And thats a program that they and everybody else admit that are great. So, you do have partisanship. We have been trying for years to get people approved for positions. People have leftone man left a law firm. One man left aa big chain. He was a very successful executive; he left. It was two years ago. We have people that have been waiting for three years. And we cant get them approved by the Democrats in the Senate because theyre taking so long to approve our judges. Now, I have to tell you that Im totally in favor of what Mitch is doing with judges, because thatsalways seems to be a priority and its a very important priority. I think its one of the great trademarks of this administration: Weve approved record numbers of federal judges and appellate judges and two Supreme Court judges. But rather than approving somebody whos highly qualifiedsomebody that everybody knows is going to be approvedrather than going quickly, they take the maximum amount of time, whatever that time may be. And what theyre doing by doing that is taking days to approve somebody that could be approved in a quick vote. People that get phenomenal reviews in committee are going maximum number of hours. And what they do istheres only so many hours in a day. Now, we could have said, Lets stay. I would have been in favor of that. They didnt choose to do it. But I have a very strong power. Id rather not use that power, but we have way over 100 people that we very badly need in this administration that should have been approved a long time ago. And one of them is the head of Voice of America. If you look at what theyre doing and what theyre saying about our country, its a disgracethe people that are running that. We have somebody thats really good, really talented, and that loves our country. And I want to get these people approved. Thats one of many. We have professionals. Sonny, youve been waiting forhow long have you been waiting for the man that were talking about coming in? SECRETARY PERDUE: Two and a half years.  Two and a half years. So Sonny Perdue just happens to be here talking about something else. So youve been waiting for one of the most important position, as Secretary of Agriculture, is the positionits distribution. We need it now. Were talking about shelves. Were talking about cupboards. He needs it. Hes been waitinghe didnt know he was going to get this question. Youve been waiting two and a half years. The person is exceptional. That person left a very good job. And its embarrassing to me. Hell say, Do you think youll get that man approved? Hes been saying that to me for a long time. Its because of the Democrats. And what were doing isand I think anybody here would do itjudges are a priority. A federal judge is going to sit for 50 years, potentiallya young judge. Going to be sitting forthats always going to have to be a priority. But because theyre taking so much time and approving everytheyre trying to put us through the mill. Thatswhen you talk about partisanshipand its never ever happened before. You can look at every administration in the history of this country. Nobodynobody has ever had hundreds of people not approved after three and a half years. Go ahead, please.  Well, well know soon. Look, they know. Itheyve been warned and theyre being warned right now. If they dont approve it, then were going to go this route. And well probably be challenged in court, and well see who wins. But when the court hears that we arent getting people approvedas Sonny would say, for two and a half yearsfor an important position that we need because of this crisiswe needed these people before, but now we really need these people.  Well, we are. There has to be a balance. You know, theres also death involved in keeping it closed. And Ive gone over this with you, and I believe this so strongly. When you look at mental health, when you look at suicides; suicide hotlines, which are exploding; people losing their jobs. When you look at drugs, and people that didnt take drugs and now theyre becoming drug addicted because theyre going through a problem. They have no job. They have no money coming inother than the money were getting them. Weve opened up the coffers to a large extent. Were helping people. This is why I wish the Democrats would help us a little bit with it, because they should. Its purely partisan what theyre doing, and its bad for our country. Butbut, you know, there is death by doingby having this strongly closed country. We have to get back to work. With all of that being said, were going to start with states and with governors that have done a great job. And theyre going to open it up as they see fit. And were going to be right behind them. And werewere going to be working. Were going to be supplying them with things if they dont have them. We want them to have them. Were going to be helping them with ventilators after this is over so that they cant say, Oh, the federal government We want them to havetheyve had a lot of options. Many of the governors have had a lot of options, over the years, to buy ventilators. They didnt choose to do it. So were going to be helping them to fill up their stockpiles. Were going to have plenty. And as I said, Im very proud to do it. Were going to be helping other nations. Were going to be helping Italy, Spain, France, other nations. And were going to be helping them strongly. I think Russia is going to need ventilators. Theyre having a hard time in Moscow. Were going to help them. Were going to help other countries that need ventilators. Were going to have a lot. You see it with General Motors. You see it with other companies that are producing. Were going to have hundreds of thousands of ventilators. And its a great thing to have. Yes, in the back. Please. Is anybody freezing?  You know, its very cold out here. So we can leave early, right?  Okay, a couple more. Go ahead. Please.  Well, you dont know what you have. Do you think youre getting honest numbers from some of these countries? Do you really believe those numbers in this vast country called Chinaand that they have a certain number of cases and a certain number of deathsdoes anybody really believe that? Heres the story: We report everything. Were reporting the cases, and our reporting is good. Were reporting every death. In fact, I see, this morning, where New York added 3,000 deaths because they died. And theyre now sayingrather than, It was a heart attacktheyre saying, It was a heart attack caused by this. So theyre adding. If you look at it, thats it. And everything we have is documented, reported. And what they are doing is, just in case, theyre calling it this. And thats okay. Thats okay. But we arewe have more cases because we do more reporting. We have more cases because everything is down. But does anybody really believe the numbers of some of these countries that youve been watching and youve been reporting on? And then, its like they didnt have the big thing. They have been some really, really badheavilyand really, some countries that are in big, big trouble. And theyre not reporting the facts. And thats up to them. All I know is: We report the facts, and were a country thats getting better. John, go ahead.  Well, I dont want to say that, John. But I will tell you, more and more, were hearing the story. And well see. When you say multiple sourcesnow theres a case where you can use the word sourcesbut we are doing a very thorough examination of this horrible situation that happened. Go ahead, please.  I dont want to discuss what I talked to him about the laboratory. I just dont want to discuss it. Its inappropriate right now. Please, go ahead, in the back.  Look, I feel very badly about the World Health Organization, but its been a tool of China. Its been, as I say, totally China-centric. You take a look at everything thats happened; theyve been wrong. I was all for it at the beginning. What do I know? I walked in, I said, World Health Organizationisnt that wonderful? And then you start to see all the mistakes. They didnt want us to close our borders to Chinato Wuhan, specifically. They didnt want our borders closed. You take a lookMike was there; we were all thereand theyre criticizing me for closing the border. I did that very early. By the way, I did that very early, while Nancy Pelosi was trying to have, in San Francisco, parties in Chinatown. Because theyshe thought it would be great. She wanted to show that this thing doesnt exist. These are peopleIll tell you, we have some politicians on the other side that dont know what theyre doing. If you look atif you look at timelinesyouve got to look at some timelines. But the Worldthe World Health Organization, just like the World Trade OrganizationIm telling youI call themthey have been treating the United States, for decades, so badly. And theyve been so in favor of China. China took off when it joined the World Trade Organization because of whats happened. Think of it: Theyre considered a developing nation. And because theyre a dev-and were not. But were a developing nation too, in my book. Okay? Were developing too. But the fact is: We have been treated so badly by these organizations. And, believe me, Im looking at that one too. Were winning a lot of lawsuits right now that we never won before in the past. Were winning a lot of money that we never won in the past. Thats with the World Trade. But with the World Health Organizationwhats happened there is a disgrace. Heres the other thing: We pay $400- to $500 million a year. China is paying $38-, $39-, and $40 million a year. And its like they control this group. I could do that too, if I want to devote full time to it. I have some very capable people dealing with Dr. Tedros. Okay? I could do it too. I could do very well with that. But theres something going on. Theres something going on that is very bad. Now, the $500 million that we save, well determinewere going to make a determination over a little period of time. But theyre going to either have to make massive changesI dont even know if theyre going to be able to do thator were going to give money to people. We want to help people. You know, what we do in Africa with AIDSpeople have no idea what we do and the money we spent. We were talking about it the other day, Doctor. We are spending billions of dollars to help people. In the case of one that Dr. Birx is very much involved in, AIDSbillions of dollars. And you know what? Its a great thing. Nobody talks about it. Nobody gives us credit. We do that, and we do it very directly. But were spending billions of dollars to help people live andall over the world. But were spending $500 million to the World Health Organization, and theres something very bad going on. And you know what? Ive gotten very much involved. Its been going on for a long period of time, and we dont want to be the suckers anymore. So, its cold out. We will talk to you tomorrow. A big day tomorrow. Very big day. Thank you."
"Thank you very much. Later this evening, we expect the House to pass the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. Im grateful that Congress is answering my call to deliver these additional $320 billion in relief for the American worker and for small businesses. At a time when many Americans are enduring significant economic challenges, this bill will help small businesses to keep millions of workers on the payroll. You see states are starting to open up now, and its very exciting to see. I think its very awe-inspiring. Were coming out of it, and were coming out of it well. And werereally, Im very happy the governors have beenthe governors, really, have been doing a really good job working with us, and itsits, really, pretty impressive to see. Ive spoken to numerous leaders of countries over the last 48 hours, and they are saying were leading the way. Were really leading the way in so many different ways. Im also very pleased that Harvardas you know, its Harvard and Stanford and Princeton and numerous other universities and colleges, and also large businesses have sent funds back to us. And in some cases, I stopped funds that I looked at. And we are pleased to report that the funds have either not gone out or its about $350 million, and theyve either not gone out or weve renegotiated it and theyre not getting them. Soand itsin a couple of cases, theyre sending them back and sending them back immediately. So I think it was very nice. I want to thank Harvard in particular. They acted very quickly and decisively. And they agreed, when they heard the facts, that they should not be getting it. So we appreciate it very much from Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, and other institutions. The bill also includes $30 billion to support small lending institutions serving distressed communities, helping countless African American and Hispanic American small businesses. As we continue our battle against the virus, the data and facts on the ground suggest that were making great progress. In 23 states, new cases have declined in the peakweek. Forty percent of American counties have also seen a rapid decline in new cases. Forty-six states reported drop in patients showing coronavirus-like symptoms. Thats a big number. To keep America gaining momentum, every citizen needs to maintain the vigilance. And we all understand that very well; weve gone over it many, many times. This includes practicing good hygiene, maintaining social distance, and the voluntary use of face covering. A safe and phased reopening of our economyits very exciting, but it does not mean that we are letting down our guard at all, in any way. On the contrary, continued diligence is an essential part of our strategy to get our country back to work, to take our country back. Were winning this, and were going to win it, and were going to keep watching. Were going to watch very closely for the invisible enemy. With each passing day, were learning more and more about this enemy. The scientists at DHS have released a report offering a number of insights about how the virus reacts to different temperatures, climates, and surfaces. The findings confirm that the virus survives better in cold or in drier environments and does less well in warmer and more humid environments. I have to say that, very excitingly, were going to have somebody up; Bill will be up in just a little while. It was a great report you gave. And hes going to be talking about how the virus reacts in sunlight. Wait until you hear the numbers. You wont even believe them. U.S. trials of the COVID-19 have been going on and have been approved in the United States, Germany, UK, and China. Thats big news. And werea lot of trials are going on. We have a lot of great, brilliant minds working on this, both from the standpoint of a vaccine and therapeutics. We must be careful in all conditions, but we willwe will get this done. Were very close to a vaccine. Unfortunately, were not very close to testing because when the testing starts, it takes a period of time. But well get it done. And I want to thank the head of DHS Science and Technology, Bill Bryan, for what hes going to be doing and what hes going to be saying and the report that hes about to give. I think its going to be something that nobody has ever heard. Itll be brand-new information and very important information. My administration continues to leverage the Defense Production Act to dramatically increase the manufacture and delivery of critical medical supplies. We finalized three contracts to produce 39 million more N95 masks in 90 days. And as you know, were also using a sterilization process. Some great equipment that will sterilize the masks up to 20 times per mask. So thats like ordering 20 times more masks. And its working very well. We just want the hospitals and the institutions, where it is, to use it. A lot of people dont use it. Theyre so used to getting a new mask, they dont want to use it. They want to go and immediately get a new one. Were asking them to use the sterilization process. Every bit as goodup to 20 times. Think of that. In addition to ramping up our domestic assembly lines, we also have airlifted nearly 750 million pieces of personal protective equipment into the United States through our Project Airbridge, which has been an incredible thing to watch. Its really a military operation. The Vice President is now providing each governor with an exhaustive count[y]-by-county breakdown of the privately distributed personal protection. And this is equipment and things that are incredible. Its personal protective equipment. Its incredible, and its all brand new and at the highest level. Were getting only the highest level. And also, were looking at essential gear within their states, and its being delivered to different states quickly and as we speak. This way, the governor should know exactly whats being delivered through a private-sector supply chain within their states, as well as through the Project Airbridge. Were trying to get it immediately from the plane to the state. When we cant do that, we bring it into our facilities and get it to the governors. And were getting them fast, and were notifying them very strongly so they know its there. Governors can use this information to quickly ensure that they get materials where and when they are needed. Today, I also want to extend my special thanks to our nations incredible county emergency management teams who have been working relentlessly for weeks around the clock, end on end, to serve their communities, help distribute critical supplies, and save countless American lives. We salute these heroic officials on the frontlines. As we continue to develop potential therapies, the FDA has recently begun a national effort to expand access to convalescent plasma donated from the blood of those who have recovered from the virus. The blood of these donors contains antibodies that can potentially reduce the severity of the illness in those who are sickand frankly, those that are very sick. Nearly 3,000 patients are now enrolled in the Expanded Access Program, receiving transfusions nationwide. And I want to thank all of the people that recovered, for what theyve done. Theyas I said yesterday, they raise their hand when they barely can walk, and theyre saying, I want to donate blood. I want to donate whatever it is that you want, because we want to help people. Its really quite incredible. Convalescent plasma will also be used to manufacture a concentrated antibody treatment that does not have to be matched with a particular blood type. This concentrated antibody treatment could be used as a preventative measure to keep healthcare workers and other high-risk populations from contracting the virus in the first place. A very big deal. Clinical trials of these products are slated to begin within weeks, and we can maybe have a fairly quick solution. I urge Americans to get in there and keep doing what youre doing, because again, we want those people recovering or recovered from coronavirus to contact their local blood and plasma donation center to learn how they can help. And theyve been so great, and I just appreciate it. My administration has also partnered with leadingand we have really been establishing some great partnerships with leading technology companies and scientific journals to create a database of 52,000 scholarly articles on the virus that can be analyzed by artificial intelligence. Top AI experts are now using this wealth of data to gain insights into potential therapies. And were collaborating with tech firms, universities, and our national labs to harness American supercomputers in the search for treatments and vaccines. That search is going on, and its beingI think youll see in the futureyoull see its very successful. Ultimately, itll be a tremendous success. Great progress is being made at a rapid pacea pace like no other. We have every hope that with the full might and resources of American science and technology, and with the courage and devotion of the American people who have been so incredible, we will end this plague, and together we will restore the full measure of American strength and power and prosperity. Our country is going to do fantastically well. You see whats going on. There is a pent-up demand in our country to get it back right where it was and maybe even better, and thats whats going to happen. So with that, Id like to ask Mike Pence to come upVice President. Say a few words please, Mike."
"Thank you very much. My fellow Americans: My first and highest duty as President is to defend our great country and the American people. I swore an oath to uphold the laws of our nation, and that is exactly what I will do. All Americans were rightly sickened and revolted by the brutal death of George Floyd. My administration is fully committed that, for George and his family, justice will be served.  He will not have died in vain. But we cannot allow the righteous cries and peaceful protesters to be drowned out by an angry mob. The biggest victims of the rioting are peace-loving citizens in our poorest communities, and as their President, I will fight to keep them safe. I will fight to protect you.  I am your President of law and order, and an ally of all peaceful protesters. But in recent days, our nation has been gripped by professional anarchists, violent mobs, arsonists, looters, criminals, rioters, Antifa, and others. A number of state and local governments have failed to take necessary action to safeguard their residence. Innocent people have been savagely beaten, like the young man in Dallas, Texas, who was left dying on the street, or the woman in Upstate New York viciously attacked by dangerous thugs. Small-business owners have seen their dreams utterly destroyed. New Yorks Finest have been hit in the face with bricks. Brave nurses, who have battled the virus, are afraid to leave their homes. A police precinct station has been overrun.  Here in the nations capital, the Lincoln Memorial and the World War Two Memorial have been vandalized. One of our most historic churches was set ablaze. A federal officer in California, an African American enforcement hero, was shot and killed. These are not acts of peaceful protest. These are acts of domestic terror. The destruction of innocent life and the spilling of innocent blood is an offense to humanity and a crime against God. America needs creation, not destruction; cooperation, not contempt; security, not anarchy; healing, not hatred; justice, not chaos. This is our mission, and we will succeed. One hundred percent, we will succeed. Our country always wins. That is why I am taking immediate presidential action to stop the violence and restore security and safety in America. I am mobilizing all available federal resources--civilian and military--to stop the rioting and looting, to end the destruction and arson, and to protect the rights of law-abiding Americans, including your Second Amendment rights. Therefore, the following measures are going into effect immediately: First, we are ending the riots and lawlessness that has spread throughout our country. We will end it now. Today, I have strongly recommended to every governor to deploy the National Guard in sufficient numbers that we dominate the streets. Mayors and governors must establish an overwhelming law enforcement presence until the violence has been quelled. If a city or a state refuses to take the actions that are necessary to defend the life and property of their residents, then I will deploy the United States military and quickly solve the problem for them. I am also taking swift and decisive action to protect our great capital, Washington, D.C. What happened in this city last night was a total disgrace. As we speak, I am dispatching thousands and thousands of heavily armed soldiers, military personnel, and law enforcement officers to stop the rioting, looting, vandalism, assaults, and the wanton destruction of property. We are putting everybody on warning: Our seven oclock curfew will be strictly enforced. Those who threaten innocent life and property will be arrested, detained, and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I want the organizers of this terror to be on notice that you will face severe criminal penalties and lengthy sentences in jail. This includes Antifa and others who are leading instigators of this violence. One law and order and that is what it is: one law. We have one beautiful law. And once that is restored and fully restored, we will help you, we will help your business, and we will help your family. America is founded upon the rule of law. It is the foundation of our prosperity, our freedom, and our very way of life.  But where there is no law, there is no opportunity. Where there is no justice, there is no liberty. Where there is no safety, there is no future. We must never give in to anger or hatred. If malice or violence reigns, then none of us is free. I take these actions today with firm resolve and with a true and passionate love for our country. By far, our greatest days lie ahead. Thank you very much.  And now Im going to pay my respects to a very, very special place. Thank you very much."
"Thank you, General, and hello cadets. On behalf of our entire nation, let me say congratulations to the incredible West Point Class of 2020. Congratulations. Everyone have a good time, enjoy yourselves, because we are here to celebrate your achievements, and great achievements they are. Let us also recognize your remarkable Superintendent, General Darryl Williams, for his outstanding stewardship. General, thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Few words in the English language and few places in history have commanded as much awe and admiration as West Point. This premier military academy produces only the best of the best, the strongest of the strong, and the bravest of the brave. West Point is a universal symbol of American gallantry, loyalty, devotion, discipline, and great skill. There is no place on Earth I would rather be than right here with all of you. Its a great honor. Across this hallowed plain have passed many of the greatest and most fearsome soldiers that ever lived. They were heroes who drove thundering columns of Sherman tanks into the heart of a wicked empire. They were legends who unleashed the fury of American artillery upon our enemies on remote islands and distant shores. They were titans who strode through cannon blast and cavalry charge, and stared down our foes through gray clouds of smoke and shrapnel. They were the Army Rangers who led the way up jagged cliffs, the Airborne soldiers who rained down justice in the dark of night, the infantry whose very sight meant liberation was near, and the mighty forces who sent tyrants, terrorists, and sadistic monsters running scared through the gates of hell. No evil force on Earth can match the noble power and righteous glory of the American warrior. I have no doubt that the young men and women before me today will add your names to this eternal chronicle of American heroes. You will go forth from this place adored by your countrymen, dreaded by your enemies, and respected by all throughout the world. Someday, generations of future West Point cadets will study your legacy. They will know your deeds, they will celebrate your triumphs, and they will proudly follow your example. To the 1,107 who today become the newest officers in the most exceptional Army ever to take the field of battle, I am here to offer Americas salute. Thank you for answering your nations call. On this special occasion, we are delighted to be joined by Congressman Steve Womack, Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy, Assistant Secretary Casey Wardynski, and Army Chief of Staff General James McConville, an old grad from the class of 1981. Lets also express our appreciation to General Curtis Buzzard, General Cindy Jebb, and all of the wonderful instructors, coaches, and faculty members who are continuing West Points two-century tradition of unrivaled excellence. To all of the parents, grandparents, and family members watching this ceremony from your beautiful home: Even though you could not be here today, we know this day could never have happened without you. Your love and sacrifice have given America these phenomenal men and women. Cadets, please join me in sending your parents and families the heartfelt thanks that they so richly deserved. Theyre all watching right now. Please. Thank you very much. The depth and breadth of the U.S. Militarys contributions to our society are an everlasting inspiration to us all. I want to take this opportunity to thank all members of Americas Armed Forces in every branch  active duty, National Guard, and reserve  who stepped forward to help battle the invisible enemy  the new virus that came to our shores from a distant land called China. We will vanquish the virus. We will extinguish this plague. I also want to thank the men and women of our National Guard who respond with precision to so many recent challenges, from hurricanes and natural disasters, to ensuring peace, safety, and the constitutional rule of law on our streets. We thank every citizen who wears a uniform in selfless service to our nation. The members of this class have come from every state in our union. You have come from the farms and the cities, from states big and small, and from every race, religion, color, and creed. But when you entered these grounds, you became part of one team, one family, proudly serving one great American nation. You became brothers and sisters pledging allegiance to the same timeless principles, joined together in a common mission to protect our country, to defend our people, and to carry on the traditions of freedom, equality, and liberty that so many gave their lives to secure. You exemplify the power of shared national purpose to transcend all differences and achieve true unity. Today, you graduate as one class, and you embody one noble creed: Duty, Honor, Country. Every graduate on this field could have gone to virtually any top-ranked university that you wanted. You chose to devote your life to the defense of America. You came to West Point because you know the truth: America is the greatest country in human history, and the United States Military is the greatest force for peace and justice the world has ever known. The survival of America and the endurance of civilization itself depends on the men and women just like each of you. It depends on people who love their country with all their heart and energy and soul. It depends on citizens who build, sustain, nurture, and defend institutions like this one; that is how societies are made and how progress is advanced. What has historically made America unique is the durability of its institutions against the passions and prejudices of the moment. When times are turbulent, when the road is rough, what matters most is that which is permanent, timeless, enduring, and eternal. It was on this soil that American patriots held the most vital fortress in our war for independence. It was this school that gave us the men who fought and won a bloody war to extinguish the evil of slavery within one lifetime of our founding. It was the graduates of West Point  towering figures like McArthur, Patton, Eisenhower, and Bradley  who led America to victory over the sinister Nazis and imperial fascists 75 years ago. It was under the leadership of West Point graduates like the legendary General Matthew Ridgway that the Army was at the forefront of ending the terrible injustice of segregation. It was Army strength that held the line against the brutal opposition and oppression from Communism. And it has been thanks to patriots like you that America has climbed to new heights of human achievement and national endeavor. This is your history. This is the legacy that each of you inherits. It is the legacy purchased with American blood at the crest of Little Round Top, on the crimson beaches of Normandy, in the freezing mud of Bastogne, and the dense jungles of Vietnam. It is the legacy of courageous, selfless, faithful patriots who fought for every inch of dirt with every ounce of strength and every last scrap of heart and drive and grit they had. And they did it because they believed in the undying principles of our founding. They did it because they cherished their homes, their faith, their family, and their flag. And they did it because when they came to this school, they were taught to hold fast to their love of our country; to cherish our heritage, learn from it, and build upon it. That is what young Americans are taught here at West Point. That is the legacy that you carry forward as second lieutenants in the United States Army, and you must never forget it. Through four long years, you have honed your skills, trained your mind and body, overcome every obstacle, and earned your place of pride in the Long Gray Line. You made it through the rigors of R-Day and Beast, the intensity of CLDT, and weeks of training in the blistering heat. You have pushed yourselves far beyond every limit imaginable. Some of you have even pushed the limits a bit too much. So for any cadets who have not finished walking off their hours, as Commander-in-Chief, I hereby absolve all cadets on restriction for minor conduct offenses, and that is effective immediately. Congratulations.  Thats a nice one, isnt it? Dont you feel better now?  Surviving the 47-month experience is never easy, but only the class of 2020 can say it survived 48 months. And when it comes to bragging rights, no one can boast louder than the class that brought Navys 14-year football winning streak to a screeching halt. You did that. I happened to be there. I happened to be there. Thats right. That was a big day. I was there. You beat Navy and brought the Commander-in-Chiefs Trophy back to West Point for two straight years. So we say, Go, Army, go. This graduating class secured more than 1,000 victories for the Black Knights, including three bowl victories, 13 NCAA team appearances, and a Womens Rugby Championship with the help of somebody that I just met: 2019 MVP, Sam Sullivan. Fantastic job. Thank you. A fantastic job. Five cadets won national boxing championships, and Adaya Queen brought home two. Brendan Brown earned the title of Powerlifting National Champion. In academics, 38 cadets have earned fellowships to continue their studies, including First Captain Dane Van de Wall, who received one of the most prestigious awards in academia: the Rhodes Scholarship. Congratulations, Dane. Its a great achievement. Thank you. Congratulations.  Great achievement. But no one modeled the values of the soldier-scholar quite like Lindy Mooradian. Lindy earned both the highest overall class standing and the highest physical program score. She has published scientific research in a prominent journal and set five new records on the athletic track. Lindy, incredible job. Where is Lindy? Where is Lindy? For somebody that did so well, they didnt give you a very good seat, Lindy. We have to talk about that. Congratulations. Right now, America needs a class of cadets that lives by your motto: With Vision, We Lead. We need you to carry on the spirit of the great General Ulysses S. Grant. Soon after assuming overall command, following three years of Union setbacks, General Grant encountered someone heading north to Washington during the Battle of the Wilderness: If you see the President, Grant said, tell him from me that whatever happens, there will  be no turning back. We need you to be as visionary as Patton, who as a young man in 1917, became the first soldier assigned to the Army Tank Corps. One month into the job, he saw the future, writing, If resistance is broken, and the line pierced, the tank must and will assume the role of pursuit cavalry and ride the enemy to death. Under Pattons leadership, thats exactly what they did. We need you to be as bold and determined as the immortal General Douglas MacArthur, who knew that the American soldier never, ever quits. After leaving the Philippines for Australia at a low point of the Pacific War in 1942, MacArthur famously vowed, I shall return. For two years, he then took great strategic risks and placed himself often in personal danger. On October 20th, 1944, McArthur stepped off a landing boat, strode through knee-high water, and proclaimed, People of the Philippines: I have returned. By the grace of Almighty God, our forces stand again on Philippine soil. He then called upon the islands brave people to rise up and join the fight. Americas momentum was unstoppable. These great leaders were not afraid of what others might say about them. They didnt care. They knew their duty was to protect their country. They knew the Army exists to preserve the republic and the strong foundations upon which it stands: family, God, country, liberty, and justice. They were true, tough American patriots. That is what our country needs, especially in these times, and that is what you are. Each of you begins your career in the Army at a crucial moment in American history. We are restoring the fundamental principles that the job of the American soldier is not to rebuild foreign nations, but defend  and defend strongly our nation from foreign enemies. We are ending the era of endless wars. In its place is a renewed, clear-eyed focus on defending Americas vital interests. It is not the duty of U.S. troops to solve ancient conflicts in faraway lands that many people have never even heard of. We are not the policemen of the world. But let our enemies be on notice: If our people are threatened, we will never, ever hesitate to act. And when we fight, from now on, we will fight only to win. As MacArthur said: In war, there is no substitute for victory. To ensure you have the very best equipment and technology available, my administration has embarked on a colossal rebuilding of the American Armed Forces, a record like no other. After years of devastating budget cuts and a military that was totally depleted from these endless wars, we have invested over 2 trillion  trillion; thats with a T  dollars in the most powerful fighting force, by far, on the planet Earth. We are building new ships, bombers, jet fighters, and helicopters by the hundreds; new tanks, military satellites, rockets, and missiles; even a hypersonic missile that goes 17 times faster than the fastest missile currently available in the world and can hit a target 1,000 miles away within 14 inches from center point. For the first time in 70 years, we established a new branch of the United States military: the Space Force. Its a big deal. In recent years, Americas warriors have made clear to all the high cost of threatening the American people. The savage ISIS caliphate has been 100 percent destroyed under the Trump administration, and its barbaric leader, al-Baghdadi, is gone, killed, over. And the worlds number-one terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, is likewise dead. As Commander-in-Chief, I never forget for one instant the immense sacrifices we ask of those who wear this nations uniform. Already, you have known the crushing pain of losing a brother in arms. Today, we remember an extraordinary cadet who made the supreme sacrifice in an accident last year: C.J. Morgan. We are deeply moved to be joined by his father, Christopher Morgan. And C.J. was something very special. Christopher is a Secret Service Agent. A tough guy. Great guy. Great son, who is looking down right now. Christopher, I want you to know that we will carry C.J.s blessed memory in our hearts forever. Thank you very much. Thank you. Tomorrow, America will celebrate a very important anniversary: the 245th birthday of the United States Army. Unrelated, going to be my birthday also. I dont know if that happened by accident. Did that happen by accident, please? But its a great day because of that Army birthday. And as you know, the Armys first Commander-in-Chief, General George Washington, called the fort that stood on this majestic point the most important post in America. Its strategic location on the Hudson River was vital to our war for independence. If British ships gained control of this river, they would have divided our young nation in two. So American soldiers stretched a massive metal chain across the waters of the Hudson, from West Point all the way to Constitution Island. I saw a piece of that chain. Its incredible. No enemy ship even dared try to cross. Every link in that great chain was formed from over 100 pounds of pure American iron, mined from American soil, and made with American pride. Together, those links formed an unbreakable line of defense. Standing here before you more than two centuries later, it is clearer than ever that General Washingtons words still hold true. West Point is still the indispensable post for America, the vital ground that must not lose. And the survival of our nation still depends on a great chain reaching out from this place  one made not of iron, but of flesh and blood, of memory and spirit, of sheer faith and unyielding courage. Today, each of you becomes another link in that unbroken chain, forged in the crucible known as the United States Military Academy, the greatest on Earth. It has given you soldiers that you can rely on to your right and to your left. And now we are entrusting you with the most noble task any warrior has ever had the privilege to carry out: the task of preserving American liberty. As long as you remain loyal, faithful, and true, then our enemies dont even stand a chance, our rights will never be stolen, our freedoms will never be trampled, our destiny will never be denied, and the United States of America will never be defeated. With the grace of God and the heroes of West Point, America will always prevail. Nothing will stand in your way, nothing will slow you down, and nothing will stop the West Point Class of 2020 from achieving a true and lasting victory. God bless you. God bless the United States Army. And God bless America. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Wow. Are you having a good time? Members of Congress, members of my cabinet, and my fellow Americans: The First Lady and I are delighted to welcome you to the second annual Salute to America.  On this wonderful day, we celebrate our history, our heroes, our heritage, our great American flag, and our freedom. Happy Fourth of July to everyone.  I want to thank the U.S. Army Golden Knights for that truly awe-inspiring display. Tremendous talent. The Golden Knights, and every member of the Armed Forces here this evening, we just want to say that you have earned the eternal gratitude of our entire nation. Two hundred and forty-four years ago in Philadelphia, the 56 signers of our Declaration of Independence pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to boldly proclaim this eternal truth: that we are all made equal by God.  Thanks to the courage of those patriots of July 4th, 1776, the American Republic stands today as the greatest, most exceptional, and most virtuous nation in the history of the world. Our workers, our factories have revolutionized industries and lifted millions into prosperity. Our artists, architects, and engineers have inspired the globe with transcendent works of beauty. American heroes defeated the Nazis, dethroned the fascists, toppled the communists, saved American values, upheld American principles, and chased down the terrorists to the very ends of the Earth. We are now in the process of defeating the radical left, the Marxists, the anarchists, the agitators, the looters, and people who, in many instances, have absolutely no clue what they are doing.  Our inventors, scientists, doctors, and researchers have improved the lives of billions and billions all around the world. Our brave astronauts planted the American flag on the Moon, and America will be the first nation to land on Mars.  All Americans living today are the heirs of this magnificent legacy. We are the descendants of the most daring and courageous people ever to walk on the face of the Earth. We inherit their towering confidence, unwavering enthusiasm, their unbridled ambition, and their unrelenting optimism. This is the untamed spirit that built this glorious nation, and this is the spirit that burns brightly within the soul of every American patriot. That is why we pay tribute to generations of American heroes whose names are etched on our monuments and memorials, and in the pages of history, and in the hearts of a very grateful people. We will never allow an angry mob to tear down our statues, erase our history, indoctrinate our children, or trample on our freedoms. We will safeguard our values, traditions, customs, and beliefs. We will teach our children to cherish and adore their country so that they can build its future. Together, we will fight for the American Dream, and we will defend, protect, and preserve American way of life, which began in 1492 when Columbus discovered America.  Jobs and companies are coming back to our country like never before. The power of tariffs being imposed on foreign lands that took advantage of the United States for decades and decades have enabled us to make great trade deals where there were none. Tens of billions of dollars are now paid to the United States Treasury by the same countries. But there and then we got hit by the virus that came from China. And weve made a lot of progress; our strategy is moving along well. It goes out in one area, and rears back its ugly face in another area. But weve learned a lot. Weve learned how to put out the flame. Weve made ventilators where there were none by the tens of thousands, to the point that we have far more than we need, and we are now distributing them to many foreign countries, as a gesture of goodwill. Likewise, testing  there were no tests for a new virus, but now we have tested over 40 million people. But by so doing, we show cases, 99 percent of which are totally harmless. Results that no other country will show, because no other country has testing that we have  not in terms of the numbers or in terms of the quality. And now, just like everything else, we have become the manufacturer on record for ventilators, we have the most and finest testing anywhere in the world, and are producing gowns and masks and surgical equipment in our country where heretofore it was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China, where, ironically, this virus and others came from. Chinas secrecy, deceptions, and cover-up allowed it to spread all over the world  189 countries  and China must be held fully accountable.  With respect to remedies, we are now doing unbelievably well, and are in deep testing on vaccines, treatments, and therapeutics. I want to send our thanks to the scientists and researchers around the country and even around the world who are at the forefront of our historic effort to rapidly develop and deliver life-saving treatments and, ultimately, a vaccine. We are unleashing our nations scientific brilliance. And well likely have a therapeutic and/or vaccine solution long before the end of the year.  Were grateful to be joined this evening by Americans battling on the frontlines to kill the virus. I just want to say that America thanks you. Please stand. Please. Thank you very much. Great, brilliant people. These are great and brilliant people. Thank you. And brave people.  Our movement is based on lifting all citizens to reach their fullest, God-given potential. Never forget: We are one family and one nation. This rich heritage belongs to every citizen, young and old, first-generation American and tenth-generation American. This heritage belongs to every citizen, young and old  first-generation American  we want to go from first generation to tenth generation; it matters not. We are American. We are from the USA.  This great heritage belongs to citizens of every background and of every walk of life. No matter our race, color, religion, or creed, we are one America, and we put America first. We will not allow anyone to divide our citizens by race or background. We will not allow them to foment hate, discord, and distrust. We will hold fast and true to the sacred loyalties that link us all as neighbors, as Americans, and as patriots. In every age, there have always been those who seek to lie about the past in order to gain power in the present. Those that are lying about our history, those who want us to be ashamed of who we are, are not interested in justice or in healing. Their goal is demolition. Our goal is not to destroy the greatest structure on Earth, what we have built: The United States of America. To build a future, where every family is safe, where every child is surrounded by love, where every community has equal opportunity, and every citizen enjoys great and everlasting dignity. Our past is not a burden to be cast away, it is a miraculous foundation that will lift us to the next great summit of human endeavor. The incredible story of American progress is the story of each generation picking up where the last finished  linked by time, by fate, and the eternal bonds of our national affection. Those who would sever those bonds would cut us off from the wisdom, the courage, the love, and the devotion that gave us everything we are today and everything we strive for tomorrow. We cannot let that happen. We will not throw away our heroes. We will honor them, and we will prove worthy of their sacrifice. These are great heroes. Let me also say a word to those in the media who falsely and consistently label their opponents as racists, who condemn patriotic citizens who offer a clear and truthful defense of American unity. Thats what our people are doing. We want a clear and faithful defense of American history and we want unity. When you level these false charges, you not only slander me, you not only slander the American people, but you slander generations of heroes who gave their lives for America. You slander people much braver and much more principled than you. You are slandering the young men who raised the flag at Iwo Jima, and those who perished fighting for freedom in the Civil War. You slander them. You are dishonoring their great legacy and their memory by insisting that they fought for racism and they fought for oppression. They didnt fight for those things; they fought for the exact opposite. We will not let the legacy of these heroes be tarnished by you. The more you lie, the more you slander, the more you try to demean and divide, the more we will work hard to tell the truth. And we will win. The more you lie and demean and collude, the more credibility you lose. We want to bring the country together, and a free and open media will make this task a very easy one. Our country will be united. After all, what do we want? We want a strong military, great education, housing, low taxes, law and order. We want safety, we want equal justice, we want religious liberty, we want faith and family, and living in a great communities and happy communities and safe communities. And we want great jobs and we want to be respected by the rest of the world; not taken advantage of by the rest of the world, which has gone on for decade after decade. We should all want the same thing. How can it be any different than those things? The more bitter you become, the more we will appeal to love and patriotism, and the more we will rise above your hate to build a better future for every child in our great country. To celebrate Americas majestic inheritance, yesterday I signed an executive order to create a brand-new monument to our most beloved icons. The National Garden of American Heroes will be a vast outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest Americans who have ever lived. We will honor extraordinary citizens from every community and from every place and from every part of our nation. Great men and great women, people that we can look up to forever. Families will be able to walk among the statues of titans, and we have already selected the first 30 legacies and 30 legends. And why dont we start with a man who has been very unfairly treated, who, two years ago, three years ago  especially five or six years ago  people would have said its impossible to even attempt to try and disturb his incredible legacy and success: George Washington. Thomas Jefferson. Betsy Ross. Alexander Hamilton. Benjamin Franklin. John Adams. James Madison. Dolly Madison. The great Frederick Douglass. Abraham Lincoln. Harriet Tubman. Harriet Beecher Stowe. Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain. Clara Barton. Daniel Boone. Davy Crockett. Henry Clay. Susan B. Anthony. Booker T. Washington. Orville and Wilbur Wright, who are looking down. And youre going to see some planes like you have never seen before, because we build them better than anybody in the world. The greatest Air Force, the greatest fighters, the greatest everything. Youre going to be seeing something  I just wonder what Orville and Wilbur would have been thinking if they ever got to see that. But theyre looking. Theyre checking it out right now along with us. Amelia Earhart.  A great, great athlete no matter where he went; he was the best athlete: Jackie Robinson. George S. Patton  General Patton. He didnt know how to lose. He didnt dont how to lose. General Douglas MacArthur. Audie Murphy. The great Billy Graham. And an incredible man, respected by everybody: Martin Luther King. President Ronald Reagan. Christa McAuliffe, and Antonin Scalia.  So those are just a few of the people well be naming, and things are subject to change, but once we make that decision, those great names are going to be up there and theyre never coming down. They have just been an incredible group. And we are going to do this in a very democratic way, frankly. Were going to take names and suggestions. Were going to have committees and were going to pick the greatest people that this country has ever known. The most respected people. The people that helped us the most. And the people that we can look up to and that our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren can look up to into the future and they can say, Isnt America just a tremendous place? So, thank you. That will be very exciting. The patriots who built our country were not villains, they were heroes whose courageous deeds improved the Earth beyond measure. The beauty and the glory of our constitutional system is that it gives us the tools to fight injustice, to heal division, and to continue the work of our Founding Fathers by expanding and growing the blessings of America. If you believe in justice, if you believe in freedom, if you believe in peace, then you must cherish the principles of our founding and the text of our Constitution. It is our founding and our Constitution. It is a firm foundation upon which all progress is achieved. Thats why our country is so strong, even despite terrible things that happen over the generations. Here this evening are a number of heroes who risk their own lives to uphold these values and keep our communities and our country safe. We are joined by the outstanding law enforcement officers who have been able to fight on the front lines, protecting our cities  many of them facing down violent assaults from very bad people. We are especially moved to be joined by the family of a great man: Fallen Officer David Dorn, a 38-year veteran of the St. Louis Police Department who was killed last month in the city he devoted his life to defending. And to Davids great family, I want to thank you very much. The American people will always support the courageous men and women of law enforcement. And nobody  nobody  embodies that better than David. Thank you very much. Please. And David is looking down right now, and he is so proud of you and he loves you so much. And thank you for being here. Hes a great man. Hes a great man. Finally tonight, we will salute the greatness and loyalty and valor of the men and women who have defended our independence for 244 years. We will honor the amazing men and women of the United States Military.  Never in history has a nation used so much power to advance so much good. Battlefields across the world, and here at home, are marked with the gravestones of young patriots who spent their final valiant moments on this Earth to secure liberty and peace. Every child should be taught the military heroes who fought and died to make us free. These are great, great people. These are great, great heroes, indeed. And our greatest leaders and heroes should be recognized and even immortalized for coming generations to see. You know that. This will make our country even stronger long into the future. In a few moments, we will bear witness to awesome aircraft representing every major military conflict over the last 75 years. These planes once launched off massive aircraft carriers in the fiercest battles of World War II. They raced through the skies of Koreas MiG Alley. They carried American warriors into the dense fields and jungles of Vietnam. They delivered a swift and swip-  and you know that sweeping  it was swift and it was sweeping like nobody has ever seen anything happen  a victory in Operation Desert Storm. A lot of you were involved in that. A lot of you were involved. That was a quick one. And they have gone on to dangerous missions around the world to take out enemy terrorists and bring our soldiers home safely. As you know, weve killed, this last year, the two leading terrorists of the last 10 years: al-Baghdadi and Soleimani. Killed. Gone. Over. We have worked to fully rebuild the Armed Forces of the United States. No enemy on Earth stands a chance  $2.5 trillion, weve invested  all made in the USA. Weve never had anything near the power and the equipment that we have right now. We did that over the last three years. Everywhere these aircraft have flown, theyve rained down American thunder, delivered American justice, and they have fiercely defended every square inch of American sovereignty. In their steel frames, broad wings, and roaring engines, we see the story of Americas daring defiance, its soaring spirit, and undying resolve. Throughout our history, our country has been tested and tried  but we have always fought to victory. Whenever our way of life has been threatened, our ancestors have responded with the same resounding answer as those first patriots who fought for independence: We are Americans, and we never back down, we never give in, and we never give up, and we will never yield [in] defense of our nation. We love our nation. We will only fight to win. Today, we thank God for the gift of life and for the blessing of liberty. We honor the legends of our history, the glories of our Founding Fathers, and the giants of the past, and the heroes of today who keep us safe, who keep us strong and proud, and who keep us free. Once again, Happy July Fourth to all. Our country is in great shape. Our military has never been stronger. And many, many good things are going to happen. Next year will be one of the greatest years weve ever had. I want to thank our men and women  they are so good  of the National Park Service, Air Traffic Control, and the United States Military. God Bless you, God Bless our heroes, God bless America. And now, let the flyovers begin. Thank you very much."
"Wow. Are you having a good time? Members of Congress, members of my cabinet, and my fellow Americans: The First Lady and I are delighted to welcome you to the second annual Salute to America.  On this wonderful day, we celebrate our history, our heroes, our heritage, our great American flag, and our freedom. Happy Fourth of July to everyone.  I want to thank the U.S. Army Golden Knights for that truly awe-inspiring display. Tremendous talent. The Golden Knights, and every member of the Armed Forces here this evening, we just want to say that you have earned the eternal gratitude of our entire nation. Two hundred and forty-four years ago in Philadelphia, the 56 signers of our Declaration of Independence pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to boldly proclaim this eternal truth: that we are all made equal by God.  Thanks to the courage of those patriots of July 4th, 1776, the American Republic stands today as the greatest, most exceptional, and most virtuous nation in the history of the world. Our workers, our factories have revolutionized industries and lifted millions into prosperity. Our artists, architects, and engineers have inspired the globe with transcendent works of beauty. American heroes defeated the Nazis, dethroned the fascists, toppled the communists, saved American values, upheld American principles, and chased down the terrorists to the very ends of the Earth. We are now in the process of defeating the radical left, the Marxists, the anarchists, the agitators, the looters, and people who, in many instances, have absolutely no clue what they are doing.  Our inventors, scientists, doctors, and researchers have improved the lives of billions and billions all around the world. Our brave astronauts planted the American flag on the Moon, and America will be the first nation to land on Mars.  All Americans living today are the heirs of this magnificent legacy. We are the descendants of the most daring and courageous people ever to walk on the face of the Earth. We inherit their towering confidence, unwavering enthusiasm, their unbridled ambition, and their unrelenting optimism. This is the untamed spirit that built this glorious nation, and this is the spirit that burns brightly within the soul of every American patriot. That is why we pay tribute to generations of American heroes whose names are etched on our monuments and memorials, and in the pages of history, and in the hearts of a very grateful people. We will never allow an angry mob to tear down our statues, erase our history, indoctrinate our children, or trample on our freedoms. We will safeguard our values, traditions, customs, and beliefs. We will teach our children to cherish and adore their country so that they can build its future. Together, we will fight for the American Dream, and we will defend, protect, and preserve American way of life, which began in 1492 when Columbus discovered America.  Jobs and companies are coming back to our country like never before. The power of tariffs being imposed on foreign lands that took advantage of the United States for decades and decades have enabled us to make great trade deals where there were none. Tens of billions of dollars are now paid to the United States Treasury by the same countries. But there and then we got hit by the virus that came from China. And weve made a lot of progress; our strategy is moving along well. It goes out in one area, and rears back its ugly face in another area. But weve learned a lot. Weve learned how to put out the flame. Weve made ventilators where there were none by the tens of thousands, to the point that we have far more than we need, and we are now distributing them to many foreign countries, as a gesture of goodwill. Likewise, testing  there were no tests for a new virus, but now we have tested over 40 million people. But by so doing, we show cases, 99 percent of which are totally harmless. Results that no other country will show, because no other country has testing that we have  not in terms of the numbers or in terms of the quality. And now, just like everything else, we have become the manufacturer on record for ventilators, we have the most and finest testing anywhere in the world, and are producing gowns and masks and surgical equipment in our country where heretofore it was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China, where, ironically, this virus and others came from. Chinas secrecy, deceptions, and cover-up allowed it to spread all over the world  189 countries  and China must be held fully accountable.  With respect to remedies, we are now doing unbelievably well, and are in deep testing on vaccines, treatments, and therapeutics. I want to send our thanks to the scientists and researchers around the country and even around the world who are at the forefront of our historic effort to rapidly develop and deliver life-saving treatments and, ultimately, a vaccine. We are unleashing our nations scientific brilliance. And well likely have a therapeutic and/or vaccine solution long before the end of the year.  Were grateful to be joined this evening by Americans battling on the frontlines to kill the virus. I just want to say that America thanks you. Please stand. Please. Thank you very much. Great, brilliant people. These are great and brilliant people. Thank you. And brave people.  Our movement is based on lifting all citizens to reach their fullest, God-given potential. Never forget: We are one family and one nation. This rich heritage belongs to every citizen, young and old, first-generation American and tenth-generation American. This heritage belongs to every citizen, young and old  first-generation American  we want to go from first generation to tenth generation; it matters not. We are American. We are from the USA.  This great heritage belongs to citizens of every background and of every walk of life. No matter our race, color, religion, or creed, we are one America, and we put America first. We will not allow anyone to divide our citizens by race or background. We will not allow them to foment hate, discord, and distrust. We will hold fast and true to the sacred loyalties that link us all as neighbors, as Americans, and as patriots. In every age, there have always been those who seek to lie about the past in order to gain power in the present. Those that are lying about our history, those who want us to be ashamed of who we are, are not interested in justice or in healing. Their goal is demolition. Our goal is not to destroy the greatest structure on Earth, what we have built: The United States of America. To build a future, where every family is safe, where every child is surrounded by love, where every community has equal opportunity, and every citizen enjoys great and everlasting dignity. Our past is not a burden to be cast away, it is a miraculous foundation that will lift us to the next great summit of human endeavor. The incredible story of American progress is the story of each generation picking up where the last finished  linked by time, by fate, and the eternal bonds of our national affection. Those who would sever those bonds would cut us off from the wisdom, the courage, the love, and the devotion that gave us everything we are today and everything we strive for tomorrow. We cannot let that happen. We will not throw away our heroes. We will honor them, and we will prove worthy of their sacrifice. These are great heroes. Let me also say a word to those in the media who falsely and consistently label their opponents as racists, who condemn patriotic citizens who offer a clear and truthful defense of American unity. Thats what our people are doing. We want a clear and faithful defense of American history and we want unity. When you level these false charges, you not only slander me, you not only slander the American people, but you slander generations of heroes who gave their lives for America. You slander people much braver and much more principled than you. You are slandering the young men who raised the flag at Iwo Jima, and those who perished fighting for freedom in the Civil War. You slander them. You are dishonoring their great legacy and their memory by insisting that they fought for racism and they fought for oppression. They didnt fight for those things; they fought for the exact opposite. We will not let the legacy of these heroes be tarnished by you. The more you lie, the more you slander, the more you try to demean and divide, the more we will work hard to tell the truth. And we will win. The more you lie and demean and collude, the more credibility you lose. We want to bring the country together, and a free and open media will make this task a very easy one. Our country will be united. After all, what do we want? We want a strong military, great education, housing, low taxes, law and order. We want safety, we want equal justice, we want religious liberty, we want faith and family, and living in a great communities and happy communities and safe communities. And we want great jobs and we want to be respected by the rest of the world; not taken advantage of by the rest of the world, which has gone on for decade after decade. We should all want the same thing. How can it be any different than those things? The more bitter you become, the more we will appeal to love and patriotism, and the more we will rise above your hate to build a better future for every child in our great country. To celebrate Americas majestic inheritance, yesterday I signed an executive order to create a brand-new monument to our most beloved icons. The National Garden of American Heroes will be a vast outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest Americans who have ever lived. We will honor extraordinary citizens from every community and from every place and from every part of our nation. Great men and great women, people that we can look up to forever. Families will be able to walk among the statues of titans, and we have already selected the first 30 legacies and 30 legends. And why dont we start with a man who has been very unfairly treated, who, two years ago, three years ago  especially five or six years ago  people would have said its impossible to even attempt to try and disturb his incredible legacy and success: George Washington. Thomas Jefferson. Betsy Ross. Alexander Hamilton. Benjamin Franklin. John Adams. James Madison. Dolly Madison. The great Frederick Douglass. Abraham Lincoln. Harriet Tubman. Harriet Beecher Stowe. Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain. Clara Barton. Daniel Boone. Davy Crockett. Henry Clay. Susan B. Anthony. Booker T. Washington. Orville and Wilbur Wright, who are looking down. And youre going to see some planes like you have never seen before, because we build them better than anybody in the world. The greatest Air Force, the greatest fighters, the greatest everything. Youre going to be seeing something  I just wonder what Orville and Wilbur would have been thinking if they ever got to see that. But theyre looking. Theyre checking it out right now along with us. Amelia Earhart.  A great, great athlete no matter where he went; he was the best athlete: Jackie Robinson. George S. Patton  General Patton. He didnt know how to lose. He didnt dont how to lose. General Douglas MacArthur. Audie Murphy. The great Billy Graham. And an incredible man, respected by everybody: Martin Luther King. President Ronald Reagan. Christa McAuliffe, and Antonin Scalia.  So those are just a few of the people well be naming, and things are subject to change, but once we make that decision, those great names are going to be up there and theyre never coming down. They have just been an incredible group. And we are going to do this in a very democratic way, frankly. Were going to take names and suggestions. Were going to have committees and were going to pick the greatest people that this country has ever known. The most respected people. The people that helped us the most. And the people that we can look up to and that our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren can look up to into the future and they can say, Isnt America just a tremendous place? So, thank you. That will be very exciting. The patriots who built our country were not villains, they were heroes whose courageous deeds improved the Earth beyond measure. The beauty and the glory of our constitutional system is that it gives us the tools to fight injustice, to heal division, and to continue the work of our Founding Fathers by expanding and growing the blessings of America. If you believe in justice, if you believe in freedom, if you believe in peace, then you must cherish the principles of our founding and the text of our Constitution. It is our founding and our Constitution. It is a firm foundation upon which all progress is achieved. Thats why our country is so strong, even despite terrible things that happen over the generations. Here this evening are a number of heroes who risk their own lives to uphold these values and keep our communities and our country safe. We are joined by the outstanding law enforcement officers who have been able to fight on the front lines, protecting our cities  many of them facing down violent assaults from very bad people. We are especially moved to be joined by the family of a great man: Fallen Officer David Dorn, a 38-year veteran of the St. Louis Police Department who was killed last month in the city he devoted his life to defending. And to Davids great family, I want to thank you very much. The American people will always support the courageous men and women of law enforcement. And nobody  nobody  embodies that better than David. Thank you very much. Please. And David is looking down right now, and he is so proud of you and he loves you so much. And thank you for being here. Hes a great man. Hes a great man. Finally tonight, we will salute the greatness and loyalty and valor of the men and women who have defended our independence for 244 years. We will honor the amazing men and women of the United States Military.  Never in history has a nation used so much power to advance so much good. Battlefields across the world, and here at home, are marked with the gravestones of young patriots who spent their final valiant moments on this Earth to secure liberty and peace. Every child should be taught the military heroes who fought and died to make us free. These are great, great people. These are great, great heroes, indeed. And our greatest leaders and heroes should be recognized and even immortalized for coming generations to see. You know that. This will make our country even stronger long into the future. In a few moments, we will bear witness to awesome aircraft representing every major military conflict over the last 75 years. These planes once launched off massive aircraft carriers in the fiercest battles of World War II. They raced through the skies of Koreas MiG Alley. They carried American warriors into the dense fields and jungles of Vietnam. They delivered a swift and swip-  and you know that sweeping  it was swift and it was sweeping like nobody has ever seen anything happen  a victory in Operation Desert Storm. A lot of you were involved in that. A lot of you were involved. That was a quick one. And they have gone on to dangerous missions around the world to take out enemy terrorists and bring our soldiers home safely. As you know, weve killed, this last year, the two leading terrorists of the last 10 years: al-Baghdadi and Soleimani. Killed. Gone. Over. We have worked to fully rebuild the Armed Forces of the United States. No enemy on Earth stands a chance  $2.5 trillion, weve invested  all made in the USA. Weve never had anything near the power and the equipment that we have right now. We did that over the last three years. Everywhere these aircraft have flown, theyve rained down American thunder, delivered American justice, and they have fiercely defended every square inch of American sovereignty. In their steel frames, broad wings, and roaring engines, we see the story of Americas daring defiance, its soaring spirit, and undying resolve. Throughout our history, our country has been tested and tried  but we have always fought to victory. Whenever our way of life has been threatened, our ancestors have responded with the same resounding answer as those first patriots who fought for independence: We are Americans, and we never back down, we never give in, and we never give up, and we will never yield [in] defense of our nation. We love our nation. We will only fight to win. Today, we thank God for the gift of life and for the blessing of liberty. We honor the legends of our history, the glories of our Founding Fathers, and the giants of the past, and the heroes of today who keep us safe, who keep us strong and proud, and who keep us free. Once again, Happy July Fourth to all. Our country is in great shape. Our military has never been stronger. And many, many good things are going to happen. Next year will be one of the greatest years weve ever had. I want to thank our men and women  they are so good  of the National Park Service, Air Traffic Control, and the United States Military. God Bless you, God Bless our heroes, God bless America. And now, let the flyovers begin. Thank you very much."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Happy Labor Day. That was, really, a very special time I had speaking to some of the labor union heads and other people. Theyre very happy with the way things are going. As you probably see, the numbers are terrific. So we called some people, wished them a very happy Labor Day, and they told us how theyre doing, and we really celebrate the American worker. We are in the midst of the fastest economic recovery in U.S. history. So we have a lot to be thankful for, including this really beautiful day. Its why I thought wed do this outside as opposed to in your more normal place. The United States experienced the smallest contraction of any major Western nation. You probably know that. You look around and see how were doing compared to every other nation, and our rise is spectacular. And were rebounding much more quickly from the pandemic. The U.S. economy added 1.4 million jobs last month, and weve have added a record-setting 10.6 million jobs since May. 10.6 million jobs since May. Thats a record that is not even close. Second place is a long ways away. In July, the Congressional Budget Office was projecting unemployment over 10.5 percent through the end of 2020. So they thought 2020, and maybe it would be a lot longer than that. Some projections, where youd go through the entire year, and that includes a lot of months in the following year, 2021. And instead, the unemployment rate plunged, really, to the surprise of many, all the way down to 8.4 percent in August. And thats the second-largest single month decline on record. And we have the first; we have both of them. So we have the two number-one declinesdecline meaning positive, not negative. Were currently witnessing the fastest labor market recovery from an economic crisis in historyworld history. By contrast, Biden presided over the worst, the weakest, and slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression. It was a long, slow slog, and it was a very smallvery small on growth and very small on every other factor that you need. It was the weakest recovery. Under my leadership, next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country, I project. And some people are starting to agree. We have a V shape. Its probably a super V. And you see whats going on with the stock market, where its, in certain cases, already setting records. NASDA Youre going to have to take that off, please. Justyou can take it off. Your healthhow many feet are you away?  Well, if you dont take it off, youre very muffled. So if you would take it off, it would be a lot easier.  Its better, yeah. Its better.  No, I dont understand that.  No, I dont understand it at all, no, because Ive always been on the opposite side of John McCain. John McCain liked wars. I will be a better warrior than anybody, but when we fight a war, were going to win them. And, frankly, I was never a fan of John McCain. You know that; thats been very obvious. I wasbut I had to approve his entirehis funeral. I wanted him to gethe deserved a first-classyou know, and it all was approved by me. We sent Air Force One to pick up the casketa lot of things. But, no, I was never a fan of John McCain because he wanted the endless wars, and I didnt. I thought that the way the vets were taken care ofour great vetswas not good, not appropriate. And, of course, he took the fake, dirty dossier and gave it over to the FBI. So this is not somebodyam I supposed to say, What a wonderful guy? So, you know what? I lived with him. He lived with me. But we had different philosophies. I think my philosophy is right. I think its turned out to be right. But I wasnt a fan. But I respect people, and I respect a lot of people. That doesnt mean I necessarily have to agree with them, and I didnt agree with him on a lot of things. The story is a hoax, written by a guy who has got a tremendously bad history. The magazine itselfwhich I dont read, but I hear its just totally anti-Trump; hes a big Obama person, hes a big Clinton person. And he made up the story. Its a totally made-up story. In fact, I was very happy to see Zach Fuentes came out and said now hesthatsI think thats number 15and these are people that were there. Thats the 15th person. General Kellogg, everybody that was there knew what happened. And so I was happy to see that Zach came out and said its not true. He just came out. And its a disgrace. Who would say a thing like that? Only an animal would say a thing like that. There is nobody that has more respect for not only our military, but for people that gave their lives in the military. Theres nobodyand I think John Kelly knows that. I think he would know that. I think he knows that from me. But Zach Fuentes, as you know, worked for John. And I think they both know that. But Zach came out, as you know, today or yesterday, last night, and said very strongly that he didnt hear anything like that. Even John Bolton came out and said that was untrue. Now, what was true is that we had the worst weather. I think it was as bad a rain as Ive just about ever seen. And it was a fog youyou literally couldnt see. I walked out, and I didnt haveI didnt need somebody to tell me. I walked out and I said, Theres no way we can take helicopters in this. I understand helicopters very well. And they said, No, sir, thats been cancelled. They would have had to goSecret Service, I have the whole listthey would have had through a very, very busy section, during the day, of Paris. They would have had to go through the city. The Paris police were asking us, Please dont do it, because theyre not ready. When you do that, you need a lot of time. They take days and days and days to prepare for that. I wanted to do it very badly. I was willing to sit in the car for two hours, three hours, four hours. I didnt care. It didnt matter. And I had nothing else to do. I went there for that; I had nothing else to do. It was ended because of the terrible weather, and nobody was prepared to go through, in terms of Paris, the police, the military, and the Secret Service. And they came out very strongly and said, Sir, we cant allow you to make this trip. If I wanted to: Sir, we cant allow you, from a safety standpoint. It was a phony story, just like the dirty dossierthe fake, dirty dossier; just like the Russia collusion; just like all of the other phony stories. And therell be more phony stories. But I do appreciate Zach coming out. But Zach now is the 15th person thats denied it. Zach now, I think, also talked about the weather aspect of it. And hes probably the 14th or 15th person that blamed it on weather. So thats enough of that. Yes, please.  Thank you.  Were talking about where? Non-lethal force?  The riots?  Well, I think whats happened is thethe toughness. These are Democrat-run cities, all. And theres notheres no retribution. Theres nothey stand there, they throw things at the people that are supposed to be protecting something, and nothing happens. They throw rocks. They throw cans of soup. They throw lots of hard objects. And rarely does anything happen. But Ive told, when we have the federal in thereas you know, I told the U.S. Marshals to go get the man who killed aanother man. And they know who it was, and you have to arrest him. You have to arrest him. After two and a half days, they didnt arrest him. The U.S. Marshals went in, and it ended up being a gunfight, and the man was killed. But this is a man that had a bad record, and this is a man that killed a man in the street. I mean, I witnessed it; most people witnessed it. And the U.S. Marshals went in; they werent playing games. They cant play games. If somebody is breaking the law, theres got to be a form of retribution. I watchso often, when I watch some of the areas that were talking aboutnow we have Rochesterthats, again, Democrat governor, Democrat mayor. All Democrats, every one of them, and it always will be. I was with the governor in Texas; he looked at me and said, I cant imagine how they allow this to happen. And, you know, its different. Its different. I could talk about other governors saying the same thing. Yeah, please, go ahead.  Yeah.  Yeah. Qfrom the Department of Justice for those traveling for that purpose?  So we have now over 1,000 peoplefederalin jail. Were prosecuting many people. A big thing was when I signed the law putting people in jail, if you knock down monuments. That was three months ago. There hasnt been a federal monument knocked down in three months, or even thought about. I dont think theyve even thought about it. So thats had a very big impacta very big impact. But, yeah, were going around, and the nice part is you people takesee those people up there?they take nice pictures of everybody, so we dont even have to bother. We can use the news photos. We had a photo right over there of Andrew Jackson, the monument. He was getting ready, and this guy was a big, brave guy, and he was up like this, and he was showing off to all his friends. And he got arrested, and so did a lot of other people get arrested. And I would say we have the ultimate proof. Now, in that case, we got there before they ripped down the statue of Andrew Jackson, which is so beautiful, which is right over there. But they never got it. But right after that, I signed aan order saying you go to prison for 10 years. And as soon as I signed that order, that was the end of the statues coming down. But they have other ideas. Theyvetheyve got plenty of ideas. Theyre not at want for ideas. Please, go ahead.  I dont think they are. Qdoing a lot of golfing. Why have you not met with them in person?  Yeah.  I know. I know.  Dont say theres no hope. Why do you say theres no hope?  What do you know?  What do you know?  And let me just tell you: I know my customers; thats what I do. I know Pelosi, I know Schumer very well. They dont want to make a deal because they think its good for politics if they dont make a deal. This has nothing to do with anything other than you have to know who youre dealing with. I do. These are people that I dont have a lot of respect. I dont think they have a lot of respect for the American people. And I know who Im dealing with. And I dont need to meet with them to be turned down. They dont want to make a deal because they know thats good for the economy. And if they make a deal thats good for the economy, and therefore its good for me for the election in NovemberNovember 3rd, and therefore theyre not going to make a deal. Now, if we gave the store away, if we bailed out all of their Democrat-run cities where we give them a trillion dollars, which is the kind of money they wantthey want a trillion dollars to bail out badly run, Democrat cities and states. Whether its New York or Illinois or others, they want to bail them out. And were saying, Well, were not going to pay that kind of a price in order to bail the cities out. Well do something to help cities, but thats going to have to rest on its own. And why didnt you do this at the beginning? Because they could have done it at the beginning. So I know who Im dealing with. And Im on the phone with Mnuchin and with Meadows and with all of these people constantly, you know, while theyre there. But I also know when its time to meet with people. Ive done very well with deals, okay? Thats what I do. And I know when its time to meet. But I dont have to meet them in order to be turned down and in order for them to walk out to the stickswhich is the microphonesand give you people a false report of what just took place in the Oval Office. So they dont want to make a deal because they think that if the country does as badly as possible, even though a lot of people are being hurt, thats good for the Democrats. But, David, thats a bad thing. Yeah, please. Go ahead.  I am taking the high road. Im taking the high road by not seeing them. Thats the high road. Yeah.  And if I thought it made a difference or would make a difference, Id do it in a minute. Yeah. Go ahead.  Yeah. Sure. Sure.  They spied on my campaign. Thats right.  They spied on my campaign. And if they were Democrats, they would have been in jail two years ago. They would have been in jailliterally, if this side were the Democrat side, they would have been in jail two years ago for 50-year terms for treason and other things.  Im not going to say that. I have to see the report. I havent seenI purposelyI dont know if that was a good thing, smart thing. I dont know. But nobody can complain about it. I have every right to have been very much involved, and maybe someday Ill get involved in it. They spied on my campaign, and that includes Biden and Obama. They spied on my campaign trying to defeat me. They wrote up a fake dossier that has proven to be totally fakewritten by Christopher Steele, paid for by Hillary Clinton and the Democratsand they used that illegally in the FISA courts. If we did what they did, you would have many people in jail all rightright now. And you have, other than the one agent that admitted his guilt that he forged documentswe dont have that yet, but the report hasnt been issued yet. Lets see what happens.  But let me justlet me just tell you something: President Obama and BidenSleepy Joe, he knew everything that was happening. They were spying on my campaign, and they got caught. Now lets see what happens. But if this were the opposite way, people would have been jailed. They would have been in jail already for a period of at leastit would have started two years ago, and it would have been 50 years for treason, because you cant do that. Thats neverand nothing like thats ever happened before. Then they created, at tremendous expensethe money they paid is tremendous; Im sure you know the money that was paid, millions of dollars. They created a fake dossiera fake dossierproven to be, now, fake. Everyoneand they used it in the FISA courts. Thats a crime.  So far, I havent seen anybody have a problem. But the report hasnt been issued yet. Lets see what happens with the Durham report. But this started at Obama, and some people would sayand some people, Well, but he was President, like, Lets leave him alone. If it were me, they wouldnt be leaving me alone, I can tell you. Its a totally double standard, and its aits a disgrace. And if I were a Republican senator and if I were a Republican congressmanand we have some great ones, but we have a lot of them that dont fight the way that the other side fights. We have much better policy. We have much better things going for us, like borders and walls and immigration and no sanctuary cities. And a lotthey have a lot of bad stuff going, but theyre dirty fighters. And the dirtiest fight of all is the issuance of 80 million ballots, unrequested. Theyre not requested; theyre just sending 80 million ballots all over the country. Eighty million ballots, non-requested. I call them unsolicited ballots. Thats going to be the dirtiest fight of all. People are going to get ballots; theyre going to say, What am I doing? And then theyre going to harvest. Theyre going to do all the things. And if you look at the last period of six monthstake a look at the races where theyve sent ballots out. Take a look at Carolyn Maloney, whose race should be redone because she won that race totally unfairly to her opponent. Her opponent did very well against her. That race should be rerun, but they declared her the winner because they heard I found out about it. But take a look at whats happened in New Jersey and in Virginia, in different places. Its a disgrace. Thatll be a beauty. Yeah, please.  Yeah, I dont know too much about it. I read something this morning, but I dontother than that, Id have to see it. Hes a very respected man. He was approved very much by both parties, I guess. It was sort of aan approval that took place by both parties. I dont know exactly what the story is. Ill certainly know within a short period of time. I just read it for the first timeI read it this morning, just like you did.  Sure. Sure.  I think let the investigations go. Butbut hes a very respected man. Again, it was a bipartisan commission. Postmaster general is appointed by a bipartisan commission. And well see how that goes. But, no, I think hes a very honest guy, but well see. Yeah.  Go ahead, please.  Yeah. If something can be proven that he did something, always. You know?  Always. Theyve been looking at me for four years; they found nothing. Four years. Think of it: For four yearsfrom the day I came down the escalator, Ive been under investigation by sleaze, and they found nothing. They found nothing. A friend of mine said, You have to be the most innocent, honorable man ever to hold the Office of President. Think of it: They spentjust Mueller alone, he spentI guess the real number turned out to be $48 million, but whatever it wasmany, many millions of dollars. They had 18 angry Democrats looking. They had FBI agents all over the place. They had everyand they have no collusion. Friends of mine have saidsophisticated friends have said, Youve got to be the most innocent guy ever to hold this office. And theres a lot of truth to that. Yeah, please.  Sure.  Sure. Well, Ive been support-Ive been supportive of that. I was the first one that brought it up. You never heard of Nord Stream 2 until Trump came along. When I came along, I said, Wait a minute. Were protecting Germany from Russia, right? NATO. Were protecting Germany from Russia. Germany is paying Russia billions and billions of dollars to get their energy. And the real number is probably 60 to 70 percent, ultimately, of their energy is going to come from Russia. And I said this for years, that nobody talks about it. One of the many things, between sanctions and all of thewhat weve done for Ukraine, relative to what the pastthey used to send pillows, and we sent tank busters. But I brought that up a long time ago. Russia is unhappy that I brought it up. But you never heard of Nord Stream 2; nobody did, until I got elected. And I said, Why is Germany making a deal to give billions of dollars to Russia, and then were protecting Germany from Russia? How does that work? And then, on top of it, Germany is delinquent because theyre only paying a little more than 1 percent and theyre supposed to be paying 2 percent, and even the 2 percent is low. But just remember: TrumpmeI got the countries of NATO to spend one point$130 billion, going to $400 billion a year. Think of it: $400 billion a year more for NATO. And the purpose of NATO primarily is Europe protection against Russia. Now, they can use it for other, I guessand they have a little bit in the Middle East, et cetera, et cetera. But Im the one that did that. Sobut nobody talks about that. Nobody talks about Nord Stream 2. The answer is: Absolutely, if they feel that something happens. But I dont know that Germany is in a position right now, because Germany is in a very weakened position, energy wise. Theyre closing all their plants. Theyre closing their nuclear. Theyre closing their coal. Theyre closing a lot of plants. And they arethey have put themselves in a very bad position, frankly. Very, very bad position. Yeah, please.  No, I have nothing against John. I have nothing against anybody. No. I was very heartened to see that a friend of hisbecause I know Zach is a friend of his and worked for himI was very heartened to see that Zach Fuentes came out with the statement that he didI guess, late last nightthat it was not true.  Well, were going to do a report. Yeah, I fired those people; theyre all gone. And it was a disgrace, frankly. And were going to give you a big report thats going to make you very happy. All right, yeah, please.  No, they say worse; they say negative. They say negative. Theyre going to make the vaccine into a negative so that when we have itand I spoke to the head of Pfizer, I spoke to the head of Johnson & Johnson, I spoke to the head of the greatest medical companies in the world. Were doing great. Were going to have it soon.  Wait a minute. So now what theyre saying is, Oh, wow, this is bad news. President Trump is getting this vaccine in record time. By the way, if this were the Obama administration, you wouldnt have that vaccine for three years, and you probably wouldnt have it all. So were going to have a vaccine very soon, maybe even before a very special date. You know what date Im talking about.  But let me just tell youwait. And what theyre doing, because they think it is going fast. And if you talk to a lot of your sourcesif you have sourcesif you talk to your sources in the FDA, youll see its going very, very well. The numbers are looking unbelievably strong, unbelievably good. So now theyre saying, Wow, Trump has pulled this off. Okay, lets disparage the vaccine. Thats so bad for this country. Thats so bad for the world to even say that. And thats what theyre saying. But I watched Kamalas poll numbers drop from 15 to almost zero, and then drop out even before she ran in Iowa because people didnt like her, and I understand why. She will never be Presidentalthough I have to be careful, because Obama used to say that about me. So I have to be a little bit careful.  But you have to look at her a little bit more closely, because obviously Joe is not doing too well. So youre going to have to look at her a little bit too closely. But shes talking about disparaging a vaccine so that people dont think the achievement was a great achievement. I dont want the achievement for myself, I want something thats going to make people better, that people arent going to get sick with. That includes therapeutics, where were doing equally as well. Therapeutics.  Go ahead.  Yes.  No, I didnt sayI didnt say they will. I said, By the end of the year.  No, but youre not quoting me accurately. Qsay theyre guilty of?  I said that vaccines will be on the market before the end of year, but they may even be on the marketthey may even be developed and fully developed, tested, and everything else. You know, we have 30,000 people, in just one vaccine right now, under test in very, very highly infected areas. So were going to be able to get a good result, one way or the other, very soon. So I didnt say what you said. What I said is by the end of the year. But I think it could even be sooner than that. It could be during the month of October, actually. Could be before November.  No, Im saying that because we want to save a lot of lives. The fastwith me, its: The faster, the better. With somebody else, maybe they would say it politically, but Im saying it in terms of this is what we need. We have to haveif get the vaccine early, thats a great thing, whether its politics or not. Now, do benefits inure if youre able to get something years ahead of schedule? I guess, maybe they do. But the most important thing to me is saving lives; its the most important thing. Yeah, go ahead. In the back.  You sound so clear as opposed to everybody else, where they refuse.  Yeah. Qwhy do you object to that being taught in schools? And do you object to slavery itself being taught in schools?  Yeah, sono, I want everybody to know everything they can about our history. Im not a believer in cancel culture, the good or the bad. If you dont study the bad, it could happen again. So I do want that subject studied very, very carefully and very accurately. But we grew up with a certain history, and now theyre trying to change our historyrevisionist history. Thats why they want to take down our monuments. Thats why they want to take down our statues. I saw something the other day, which was absolutely horrendous: Washington Monument, they want to rename itthe D.C. committee, but the D.C. committee is all Democrats. Abraham Lincoln, Thomas JeffersonI mean, were talking aboutthis is the big stuff now. This is the big stuff. And they want to rename it. They want to re-designate it. They want to take some down. No, we dont do that. Never going to happen with me, I guarantee you that. Well, I want to thank you all, and I just want to wish you a very happy Labor Day. And were having tremendous success, whether its on the vaccines, whether its on the pandemicthe plague that came in from China, that China should have never let happen because I will never feel the same about China. And I just want to again wish you a happy Labor Day. Thank you very much, everybody."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. I stand before you today to fulfill one of my highest and most important duties under the United States Constitution: the nomination of a Supreme Court Justice. This is my third such nomination after Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh. And it is a very proud moment indeed. Over the past week, our nation has mourned the loss of a true American legend. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was a legal giant and a pioneer for women. Her extraordinary life and legacy will inspire Americans for generations to come. Now we gather in the Rose Garden to continue our never-ending task of ensuring equal justice and preserving the impartial rule of law. Today, it is my honor to nominate one of our nations most brilliant and gifted legal minds to the Supreme Court. She is a woman of unparalleled achievement, towering intellect, sterling credentials, and unyielding loyalty to the Constitution: Judge Amy Coney Barrett.  Were also joined by Amys husband, Jessethank you, Jesse, very muchand their seven beautiful children. Congratulations to you all. A very special day. With us as well are the First Ladythank you, First Lady, along with Vice President Mike Pence and his amazing wife, Karen. Thank you very much, Mike.  Judge Barrett is a graduate of Rhodes College and the University of Notre Dame Law School. At Notre Dame, she earned a full academic scholarship, served as the Executive Editor of the Law Review, graduated first in her class, and received the law schools award for the best record of scholarship and achievement. Upon graduation, she became a clerk for Judge Laurence Silberman on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Amy then received one of the highest honors a young lawyer could have, serving as a clerk on the Supreme Court for Justice Antonin Scalia. A highly, a very highly respected law professor at Notre Dame wrote to Justice Scalia with a one-sentence recommendation: Amy Coney is the best student I ever had. Thats pretty good. Justice Scalia hired her shortly thereafter. And we are honored to have his wonderful wife, Maureenwhere is Maureen? Maureen Scaliawith us today.   Thank you. And our great Secretary of Labor, thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Very good genes in that family, I will say. Very good genes. Before joining the bench, Judge Barrett spent 15 years as a Professor at the University of Notre Dame Law School. She was renowned for her scholarship, celebrated by her colleagues, and beloved by her students. Three times, she was selected at Notre Dame, Distinguished Professor of the Year. When I nominated Judge Barrett to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in 2017, every law clerk from her time at the Supreme Court endorsed her and endorsed her nomination, writing, quote, We are Democrats, Republicans, and independentsyet we write to support the nomination of Professor Barrett to be a Circuit JudgeProfessor Barrett is a woman of remarkable intellect and character. She is eminently qualified for the job. And I can tell you, I did that too. I looked and I studied, and you are very eminently qualified for this job. You are going to be fantastic. Thank you. Really fantastic. The entire Notre Dame Law facility and faculty, everybodyeverybody at that school alsowe got so many lettersalso wrote letters of support of Amys nomination to the Seventh Circuit. They wrote, in effect: Despite our differences, we unanimously agree that our constitutional system depends upon an independent judiciary staffed by talented people devoted to the fair and impartial administration of the rule of law. And we unanimously agree that Amy is such a person. For the last three years, Judge Barrett has served with immense distinction on the federal bench. Amy is more than a stellar scholar and judge; she is also a profoundly devoted mother. Her family is a core part of who Amy is. She opened her home and her heart, and adopted two beautiful children from Haiti. Her incredible bond with her youngest child, a son with Down Syndrome, is a true inspiration. If confirmed, Justice Barrett will make history as the first mother of school-aged children ever to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. Thats good.  To her children Emma, Vivian, Tess, John Peter, Liam, Juliet, and Benjamin, thank you for sharing your incredible mom with our country. Thank you very much.  Amy Coney Barrett will decide cases based on the text of the Constitution as written. As Amy has said, Being a judge takes courage. You are not there to decide cases as you may prefer. You are there to do your duty and to follow the law wherever it may take you. That is exactly what Judge Barrett will do on the U.S. Supreme Court. I want to thank the members of the Senate. We have so many of them here today. Thank you very much. I see you in the audience, and youre so proud. But I want to thank you for your commitment and to providing a fair and timely hearing. I know it will be that. Judge Barrett was confirmed to the Circuit Court three years ago by a bipartisan vote. Her qualifications are unsurpassedunsurpassedand her record is beyond reproach. This should be a straightforward and prompt confirmation. It should be very easy. Good luck. Its going to be very quick. Im sure itll be extremely non-controversial. We said that the last time, didnt we? Well, thank you all very much, and thank you for being here. Thats really great. Thank you.  I further urge all members of the other side of the aisle to provide Judge Barrett with the respectful and dignified hearing that she deserves and, frankly, that our country deserves. I urge lawmakers and members of the media to refrain from personal or partisan attacks. And the stakes for our country are incredibly high. Rulings that the Supreme Court will issue in the coming years will decide the survival of our Second Amendment, our religious liberty, our public safety, and so much more. To maintain security, liberty, and prosperity, we must preserve our priceless heritage of a nation of laws, and there is no one better to do that than Amy Coney Barrett. Law and order is the foundation of the American system of justice. No matter the issue, no matter the case before her, I am supremely confident that Judge Barrett will issue rulings based solely upon a fair reading of the law. She will defend the sacred principle of equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. Congratulations again to Judge Barrett. I know that you will make our country very, very proud. Please, Amy, say a few words. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Congratulations.   Come on up, family. Come on up, family. I want to acknowledge Attorney General Bill Barr. Bill, thank you very much for being here. Chief of Staffthank you very much, Chief. Youre doing a great job. And all of the senatorsplease, we really appreciate it. And I know youre going to have a busy couple of weeks, but I think its going to be easier than you might think. So, thank you very much for being here. Thank you all. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Congratulations, Amy."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. I stand before you today to fulfill one of my highest and most important duties under the United States Constitution: the nomination of a Supreme Court Justice. This is my third such nomination after Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh. And it is a very proud moment indeed. Over the past week, our nation has mourned the loss of a true American legend. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was a legal giant and a pioneer for women. Her extraordinary life and legacy will inspire Americans for generations to come. Now we gather in the Rose Garden to continue our never-ending task of ensuring equal justice and preserving the impartial rule of law. Today, it is my honor to nominate one of our nations most brilliant and gifted legal minds to the Supreme Court. She is a woman of unparalleled achievement, towering intellect, sterling credentials, and unyielding loyalty to the Constitution: Judge Amy Coney Barrett.  Were also joined by Amys husband, Jessethank you, Jesse, very muchand their seven beautiful children. Congratulations to you all. A very special day. With us as well are the First Ladythank you, First Lady, along with Vice President Mike Pence and his amazing wife, Karen. Thank you very much, Mike.  Judge Barrett is a graduate of Rhodes College and the University of Notre Dame Law School. At Notre Dame, she earned a full academic scholarship, served as the Executive Editor of the Law Review, graduated first in her class, and received the law schools award for the best record of scholarship and achievement. Upon graduation, she became a clerk for Judge Laurence Silberman on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Amy then received one of the highest honors a young lawyer could have, serving as a clerk on the Supreme Court for Justice Antonin Scalia. A highly, a very highly respected law professor at Notre Dame wrote to Justice Scalia with a one-sentence recommendation: Amy Coney is the best student I ever had. Thats pretty good. Justice Scalia hired her shortly thereafter. And we are honored to have his wonderful wife, Maureenwhere is Maureen? Maureen Scaliawith us today.   Thank you. And our great Secretary of Labor, thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Very good genes in that family, I will say. Very good genes. Before joining the bench, Judge Barrett spent 15 years as a Professor at the University of Notre Dame Law School. She was renowned for her scholarship, celebrated by her colleagues, and beloved by her students. Three times, she was selected at Notre Dame, Distinguished Professor of the Year. When I nominated Judge Barrett to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in 2017, every law clerk from her time at the Supreme Court endorsed her and endorsed her nomination, writing, quote, We are Democrats, Republicans, and independentsyet we write to support the nomination of Professor Barrett to be a Circuit JudgeProfessor Barrett is a woman of remarkable intellect and character. She is eminently qualified for the job. And I can tell you, I did that too. I looked and I studied, and you are very eminently qualified for this job. You are going to be fantastic. Thank you. Really fantastic. The entire Notre Dame Law facility and faculty, everybodyeverybody at that school alsowe got so many lettersalso wrote letters of support of Amys nomination to the Seventh Circuit. They wrote, in effect: Despite our differences, we unanimously agree that our constitutional system depends upon an independent judiciary staffed by talented people devoted to the fair and impartial administration of the rule of law. And we unanimously agree that Amy is such a person. For the last three years, Judge Barrett has served with immense distinction on the federal bench. Amy is more than a stellar scholar and judge; she is also a profoundly devoted mother. Her family is a core part of who Amy is. She opened her home and her heart, and adopted two beautiful children from Haiti. Her incredible bond with her youngest child, a son with Down Syndrome, is a true inspiration. If confirmed, Justice Barrett will make history as the first mother of school-aged children ever to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. Thats good.  To her children Emma, Vivian, Tess, John Peter, Liam, Juliet, and Benjamin, thank you for sharing your incredible mom with our country. Thank you very much.  Amy Coney Barrett will decide cases based on the text of the Constitution as written. As Amy has said, Being a judge takes courage. You are not there to decide cases as you may prefer. You are there to do your duty and to follow the law wherever it may take you. That is exactly what Judge Barrett will do on the U.S. Supreme Court. I want to thank the members of the Senate. We have so many of them here today. Thank you very much. I see you in the audience, and youre so proud. But I want to thank you for your commitment and to providing a fair and timely hearing. I know it will be that. Judge Barrett was confirmed to the Circuit Court three years ago by a bipartisan vote. Her qualifications are unsurpassedunsurpassedand her record is beyond reproach. This should be a straightforward and prompt confirmation. It should be very easy. Good luck. Its going to be very quick. Im sure itll be extremely non-controversial. We said that the last time, didnt we? Well, thank you all very much, and thank you for being here. Thats really great. Thank you.  I further urge all members of the other side of the aisle to provide Judge Barrett with the respectful and dignified hearing that she deserves and, frankly, that our country deserves. I urge lawmakers and members of the media to refrain from personal or partisan attacks. And the stakes for our country are incredibly high. Rulings that the Supreme Court will issue in the coming years will decide the survival of our Second Amendment, our religious liberty, our public safety, and so much more. To maintain security, liberty, and prosperity, we must preserve our priceless heritage of a nation of laws, and there is no one better to do that than Amy Coney Barrett. Law and order is the foundation of the American system of justice. No matter the issue, no matter the case before her, I am supremely confident that Judge Barrett will issue rulings based solely upon a fair reading of the law. She will defend the sacred principle of equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. Congratulations again to Judge Barrett. I know that you will make our country very, very proud. Please, Amy, say a few words. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Congratulations.   Come on up, family. Come on up, family. I want to acknowledge Attorney General Bill Barr. Bill, thank you very much for being here. Chief of Staffthank you very much, Chief. Youre doing a great job. And all of the senatorsplease, we really appreciate it. And I know youre going to have a busy couple of weeks, but I think its going to be easier than you might think. So, thank you very much for being here. Thank you all. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Congratulations, Amy."
"Good evening. Id like to provide the American people with an update on our efforts to protect the integrity of our very important 2020 election. If you count the legal votes, I easily win. If you count the illegal votes, they can try to steal the election from us. If you count the votes that came in late  were looking at them very strongly. But a lot of votes came in late. Ive already decisively won many critical states, including massive victories in Florida, Iowa, Indiana, Ohio, to name just a few. We won these and many other victories despite historic election interference from big media, big money, and big tech. As everybody saw, we won by historic numbers. And the pollsters got it knowingly wrong. They got it knowingly wrong. We had polls that were so ridiculous, and everybody knew that at the time. There was no blue wave that they predicted. They thought there was going to be a big blue wave; that was false. That was done for suppression reasons. But instead, there was a big red wave. And its been properly acknowledged, actually, by the media. They were, I think, very impressed, but that was after the fact. That doesnt do us any good. We kept the Senate, despite having twice as many seats to defend as Democrats. And in a really  much more competitive states, weve  we did a fantastic job with the Senate, and I think were very proud of whats happened there. We had many more seats to defend. They spent almost $200 million on Senate races in South Carolina and Kentucky alone  two races  and hundreds of millions of dollars overall against us. At the national level, our opponents major donors were Wall Street bankers and special interests. Our major donors were police officers, farmers, everyday citizens. Yet for the first time ever, we lost zero races in the House. I was talking to Kevin McCarthy today. He said he couldnt believe it: zero races. Very unusual thing. Zero. And actually won many new seats with, I think, many more on the way. This was also the year of the Republican woman. More Republican women were elected to Congress than ever before. Thats a great achievement. I won the largest share of non-white voters of any Republican in 60 years, including historic numbers of Latino, African American, Asian American, and Native American voters  the largest ever in our history. We grew our party by 4 million voters, the greatest turnout in Republican Party history. Democrats are the party of the big donors, the big media, the big tech, it seems. And Republicans have become the party of the American worker, and thats whats happened. And were also, I believe, the party of inclusion. As everyone now recognizes, media polling was election interference, in the truest sense of that word, by powerful special interests. These really phony polls  I have to call them phony polls, fake polls  were designed to keep our voters at home, create the illusion of momentum for Mr. Biden, and diminish Republicans ability to raise funds. They were whats called suppression polls. Everyone knows that now. And its never been used to the extent that its been used on this last election. To highlight just a few examples: The day before election, Quinnipiac  which was wrong on every occasion that I know of  had Joe Biden up by 5 points in Florida, and they were off by 8.4 points. And I won Florida easily. Easily. So, they had me losing Florida by a lot, and I ended up winning Florida by a lot. Other than that, they were very accurate. They had him up 4 points in Ohio, and they were off by 12.2 points. And I also won Ohio  the great state of Ohio  very easily. The Washington Post had Biden up 17 points in Wisconsin, and it was basically even. They were off by about 17 points, and they knew that. Theyre not stupid people. They knew that. Suppression. There are now only a few states yet to be decided in the presidential race. The voting apparatus of those states are run, in all cases, by Democrats. We were winning in all the key locations by a lot, actually. And then our number started miraculously getting whittled away in secret, and they wouldnt allow legally permissible observers. We went to court, in a couple of instances, and we were able to get the observers put in. And when the observers got there, they wanted them 60, 70 feet away, 80 feet, 100 feet away  or outside the building to observe people inside the building. And we won a case  a big case. And we have others happening. There are a lot of  lots of litigation. Even beyond our litigation, theres tremendous amount of litigation generally because of how unfair this process was, and I predicted that. Ive been talking about mail-in voting for a long time. Its  its really destroyed our system. Its a corrupt system. And it makes people corrupt even if they arent by nature, but they become corrupt; its too easy. They want to find out how many votes they need, and then they seem to be able to find them. They wait and wait, and then they find them. And you see that on Election Night. We were ahead in votes in North Carolina by a lot  tremendous number of votes. And were still ahead by a lot, but not as many because theyre finding ballots all of a sudden. Oh, we have some mail-in ballots. Its amazing how those mail-in ballots are so one-sided, too. I know that its supposed to be to the advantage of the Democrats, but in all cases, theyre so one-sided. We were up by nearly 700,000 votes in Pennsylvania. I won Pennsylvania by a lot, and that gets whittled down to  I think they said now were up by 90,000 votes. And theyll keep coming and coming and coming. They find them all over. And they dont want us to have any observers, although we won a court case. The judge said you have to have observers. Likewise, in Geor-  and theyre appealing. Actually, theyre appealing. We won a case that we want people to watch and we want observers, and theyre actually appealing, which is sort of interesting. I wonder why theyd appeal  that all we want to do is have people watch as they do the vote tabulations. Likewise, in Georgia, I won by a lot  a lot  with a lead of over  getting close to 300,000 votes on Election Night in Georgia. And, by the way, got whittled down, and now its getting to be to a point where Ill go from winning by a lot to perhaps being even down a little bit. In Georgia, a pipe burst in a faraway location, totally unrelated to the location of what was happening, and they stopped counting for four hours, and a lot of things happened. The election apparatus in Georgia is run by Democrats. We also had margins of 300,000 in Michigan. We were way up in Michigan; won the state. And in Wisconsin, we did likewise fantastically well. And that got whittled down. Every  in every case, they got whittled down. Today, were on track to win Arizona. We only need to carry, I guess, 55 percent of the remaining vote  55 percent margins. And thats a margin that weve significantly exceeded. So well see what happens with that, but were on track to do okay in Arizona. Our goal is to defend the integrity of the election. Well not allow the corruption to steal such an important election or any election, for that matter. And we cant allow silence anybody to silence our voters and manufacture results. Ive never had  Ive been doing a lot of public things for a long time; Ive never had anything thats been as inspirational by people  calling, talking, sending things to us. Ive never seen such  such love and such affection and such spirit as Ive seen for this. People know whats happening, and they see whats happening, and its before their eyes. And there are many instances which will be reported very shortly. Theres tremendous litigation going on. And this is a case where theyre trying to steal an election, theyre trying to rig an election, and we cant let that happen. Detroit and Philadelphia  known as two of the most corrupt political places anywhere in our country, easily  cannot be responsible for engineering the outcome of a presidential race  a very important presidential race. In Pennsylvania, Democrats have gone to the State Supreme Court to try and ban our election observers, and very strongly. Now, we won the case, but theyre  theyre going forward. They dont want anybody in there. They dont want anybody watching them as they count the ballots, and I cant imagine why. Theres absolutely no legitimate reason why they would not want to have people watching this process, because if its straight, they would be  they should be proud of it. Instead, theyre trying, obviously, to commit fraud. Theres no question about that. In Philadelphia, observers have been kept far away  very far away  so far that people are using binoculars to try and see, and theres been tremendous problems caused. They put paper on all of the windows so you cant see in, and the people that are banned are very unhappy and become somewhat violent. The 11th Circuit ruled that, in Georgia, the votes have been in by Election Day  that they should be in by Election Day, and they werent. Votes are coming in after Election Day. And they had a ruling already that you have to have the votes in by Election Day. To the best of my knowledge, votes should be in by Election Day, and they didnt do that. Democrat officials never believed they could win this election honestly. I really believe that. Thats why they did the mail-in ballots, where theres tremendous corruption and fraud going on. Thats why they mailed out tens of millions of unsolicited ballots without any verification measures whatsoever. And Ive told everybody that these things would happen, because Ive seen it happen. I watched a lot of different elections before they decided to go with this big, massive election with tens of millions of ballots going out to everybody  in many cases, totally unsolicited. This was unprecedented in American history. This was by design. Despite years of claiming to care about the election security, they refuse to include any requirement to verify signatures, identities, or even determine whether theyre eligible or ineligible to vote. People are walking in that they have no idea; theyre just taking numbers. Theyre writing down things  the workers  and doing a lot of bad things. And we have a lot of information coming and litigation that youll see that will shake even you people up, and youve seen it all. The officials overseeing the counting in Pennsylvania and other key states are all part of a corrupt Democrat machine that youve written about  and, for a long time, youve been writing about the corrupt Democrat machine. I went to school there, and I know a lot about it. It hasnt changed. Its a long time ago, and it hasnt changed. Its gotten worse. In Pennsylvania, partisan Democrats have allowed ballots in the state to be received three days after the election, and we think much more than that. And they are counting those without even postmarks or any identification whatsoever. So you dont have postmarks; you dont have identification. There have been a number of disturbing irregularities across the nation. Our campaign has been denied access to observe any counting in Detroit. Detroit is another place. So you dont have postmarks; you dont have identification. There have been a number of disturbing irregularities across the nation. Our campaign has been denied access to observe any counting in Detroit. Detroit is another place  and I wouldnt say has the best reputation for election integrity. Poll workers in Michigan were duplicating ballots. But when our observers attempted to challenge the activity, those poll workers jumped in front of the volunteers to block their view so that they couldnt see what they were doing, and it became a little bit dangerous. One major hub for counting ballots in Detroit covered up the windows, again, with large pieces of cardboard. And so they wanted to protect and block the counting area. They didnt want anybody seeing the counting, even though these were observers who are legal observers that were supposed to be there. In Detroit, there were hours of unexplained delay in delivering many of the votes for counting. The final batch did not arrive until four in the morning and  even though the polls closed at eight oclock. So they brought it in, and the batches came in, and nobody knew where they came from. Weve also been denied access to observe in critical places in Georgia. In multiple swing states, counting was halted for hours and hours on Election Night, with results withheld from major Democrat-run locations, only to appear later. And they certainly appeared, and they all had the name Biden on them, or just about all  I think almost all. They all had the name Biden on them, which is a little strange. I challenge Joe and every Democrat to clarify that they only want legal votes. Because they talk about votes, and I think they should use the word legal  legal votes. We want every legal vote counted. And I want every legal vote counted. We want openness and transparency  no secret count rooms, no mystery ballots, no illegal votes being cast after Election Day. You have Election Day, and the laws are very strong on that. You have an Election Day. And they dont want votes cast after Election Day, and they want the process to be an honest one. Its so important. We want an honest election, and we want an honest count, and we want honest people working back there because its a very important job. So thats the way this country is going to win. Thats the way the United States will win. And we think we will win the election very easily. We think theres going to be a lot of litigation because we have so much evidence, so much proof. And its going to end up, perhaps, at the highest court in the land. Well see. But we think therell be a lot of litigation because we cant have an election stolen by  like this. And I  I tell you, I would  I have been talking about this for many months with all of you. And Ive said very strongly that mail-in ballots are going to end up being a disaster. Small elections were a disaster. Small, very easy-to-handle elections were disastrous. This is a large-scale version, and its getting worse and worse every day. Were hearing stories that are horror stories  absolute horror stories. And we cant let that happen to the United States of America. Its not a question of who wins  Republican, Democrat; Joe, myself. We cant let that happen to our country. We cant be disgraced by having something like this happen. So it will be hopefully cleared up, maybe soon; I hope soon. But itll probably go through a process  a legal process. And, as you know, Ive claimed certain states and hes claiming states. So we can both claim the states, but ultimately I have a feeling judges are going to have to rule. But theres been a lot of shenanigans, and we cant stand for that in our country. Thank you very much."
"I know your pain. I know your hurt. We had an election that was stolen from us. It was a landslide election, and everyone knows it, especially the other side. But you have to go home now. We have to have peace. We have to have law and order. We have to respect our great people in law and order. We don't want anybody hurt. It is a very tough period of time. There has never been a time like this where such a thing happened, where they could take it away from all of us, from me, from you, from our country. This was a fraudulent election, but we can't play into the hands of these people. We have to have peace. So go home. We love you. You are very special. You've see what happens. You see the way others are treated that are so bad and so evil. I know how you feel. But go home and go home...."
"I would like to begin by addressing the heinous attack on the United States Capitol. Like all Americans, I am outraged by the violence, lawlessness, and mayhem. I immediately deployed the National Guard and federal law enforcement to secure the building and expel the intruders.  America is, and must always be, a nation of law and order. The demonstrators who infiltrated the Capitol have defiled the seat of American democracy.  To those who engaged in the acts of violence and destruction, you do not represent our country.  And to those who broke the law, you will pay.  We have just been through an intense election, and emotions are high, but now tempers must be cooled, and calm restored. We must get on with the business of America.  My campaign vigorously pursued every legal avenue to contest the election results. My only goal was to ensure the integrity of the vote. In so doing, I was fighting to defend American democracy. I continue to strongly believe that we must reform our election laws to verify the identity and the eligibility of all voters and to ensure faith and confidence in all future elections. Now Congress has certified the results. A new administration will be inaugurated on January 20. My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly, and seamless transition of power. This moment calls for healing and reconciliation.  2020 has been a challenging time for our people. A menacing pandemic has upended the lives of our citizens, isolated millions in their homes, damaged our economy, and claimed countless lives. Defeating this pandemic and rebuilding the greatest economy on earth will require all of us working together. It will require a renewed emphasis on the civic values of patriotism, faith, charity, community, and family. We must revitalize the sacred bonds of love and loyalty that bind us together as one national family.  To the citizens of our country, serving as your president has been the honor of my lifetime. And to all of my wonderful supporters, I know you are disappointed but I also want you to know that our incredible journey is only just beginning. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America."
"My fellow Americans,  I want to speak to you tonight about the troubling events of the past week. As I have said, the incursion of the US capitol struck at the very heart of our republic. It angered and appalled millions of Americans across the political spectrum.  I want to be very clear. I unequivocally condemn the violence that we saw last week. Violence and vandalism have absolutely no place in our country and no place in our movement. Making America Great Again has always been about defending the rule of law, supporting the men and women of law enforcement, and upholding our nation's most sacred traditions and values.  Mob violence goes against everything I believe in, and everything our movement stands for. No true supporter of mine could ever endorse political violence. No true supporter of mine could ever disrespect law enforcement or our great American flag. No true supporter of mine could ever threaten or harass their fellow Americans. If you do any of these things, you are not supporting our movement. You are attacking it, and you are attacking our country. We cannot tolerate it.  Tragically, over the course of the past year, made so difficult because of covid-19, we have seen political violence spiral out of control. We have seen too many riots, too many mobs, too many acts of intimidation and destruction. It must stop, whether you are on the right or on the left, a democrat or a republican, there is never a justification for violence. No excuses. No exceptions.  America is a nation of laws. Those who engaged in the attacks last week will be brought to justice.  Now I am asking everyone who has ever believed in our agenda, to be thinking of ways to ease tensions, calm tempers, and help to promote peace in our country. There has been reporting that additional demonstrations are being planned in the coming days, both here in Washington and across the country. I have been briefed by the US secret service on the potential threats.  Every American deserves to have their voice heard in a respectful and peaceful way. That is your First Amendment right. But I cannot emphasize that there must be no violence, no lawbreaking, and no vandalism of any kind. Everyone must follow our laws and obey the instructions of law enforcement.  I have directed federal agencies to use all necessary resources to maintain order. In Washington, DC, we are bringing in thousands of national guard members to secure the city and ensure that a transition can occur safely and without incident.  Like all of you, I was shocked and deeply saddened by the calamity at the capitol last week. I want to thank the hundreds of millions of incredible American citizens who have responded to this moment with calm, moderation, and grace. We will get through this challenge, just like we always do.  I also want to say a few words about the unprecedented assault on free speech we have seen in recent days. These are tense and difficult times. The efforts to censor, cancel, and blacklist our fellow citizens are wrong, and they are dangerous. What is needed now is for us to listen to one another, not to silence to one another. All of us can choose by our actions to rise above the rancor and find common ground and shared purpose. We must focus on advancing the interests of the whole nation, delivering the miracle vaccines, defeating the pandemic, rebuilding the economy, protecting our national security, and upholding the rule of law.  Today, I am calling on all Americans to overcome the passions of the moment and join together as one American people. Let us choose to move forward united for the good of our families, our communities, and our country. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America."
"My fellow Americans: Four years ago, we launched a great national effort to rebuild our country, to renew its spirit, and to restore the allegiance of this government to its citizens. In short, we embarked on a mission to make America great again  for all Americans. As I conclude my term as the 45th President of the United States, I stand before you truly proud of what we have achieved together. We did what we came here to do  and so much more. This week, we inaugurate a new administration and pray for its success in keeping America safe and prosperous. We extend our best wishes, and we also want them to have luck  a very important word. Id like to begin by thanking just a few of the amazing people who made our remarkable journey possible. First, let me express my overwhelming gratitude for the love and support of our spectacular First Lady, Melania. Let me also share my deepest appreciation to my daughter Ivanka, my son-in-law Jared, and to Barron, Don, Eric, Tiffany, and Lara. You fill my world with light and with joy. I also want to thank Vice President Mike Pence, his wonderful wife Karen, and the entire Pence family. Thank you as well to my Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows; the dedicated members of the White House Staff and the Cabinet; and all the incredible people across our administration who poured out their heart and soul to fight for America. I also want to take a moment to thank a truly exceptional group of people: the United States Secret Service. My family and I will forever be in your debt. My profound gratitude as well to everyone in the White House Military Office, the teams of Marine One and Air Force One, every member of the Armed Forces, and state and local law enforcement all across our country. Most of all, I want to thank the American people. To serve as your President has been an honor beyond description. Thank you for this extraordinary privilege. And thats what it is  a great privilege and a great honor. We must never forget that while Americans will always have our disagreements, we are a nation of incredible, decent, faithful, and peace-loving citizens who all want our country to thrive and flourish and be very, very successful and good. We are a truly magnificent nation. All Americans were horrified by the assault on our Capitol. Political violence is an attack on everything we cherish as Americans. It can never be tolerated. Now more than ever, we must unify around our shared values and rise above the partisan rancor, and forge our common destiny. Four years ago, I came to Washington as the only true outsider ever to win the presidency. I had not spent my career as a politician, but as a builder looking at open skylines and imagining infinite possibilities. I ran for President because I knew there were towering new summits for America just waiting to be scaled. I knew the potential for our nation was boundless as long as we put America first. So I left behind my former life and stepped into a very difficult arena, but an arena nevertheless, with all sorts of potential if properly done. America had given me so much, and I wanted to give something back. Together with millions of hardworking patriots across this land, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country. We also built the greatest economy in the history of the world. It was about America First because we all wanted to make America great again. We restored the principle that a nation exists to serve its citizens. Our agenda was not about right or left, it wasnt about Republican or Democrat, but about the good of a nation, and that means the whole nation. With the support and prayers of the American people, we achieved more than anyone thought possible. Nobody thought we could even come close. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We slashed more job-killing regulations than any administration had ever done before. We fixed our broken trade deals, withdrew from the horrible Trans-Pacific Partnership and the impossible Paris Climate Accord, renegotiated the one-sided South Korea deal, and we replaced NAFTA with the groundbreaking USMCA  thats Mexico and Canada  a deal thats worked out very, very well. Also, and very importantly, we imposed historic and monumental tariffs on China; made a great new deal with China. But before the ink was even dry, we and the whole world got hit with the China virus. Our trade relationship was rapidly changing, billions and billions of dollars were pouring into the U.S., but the virus forced us to go in a different direction. The whole world suffered, but America outperformed other countries economically because of our incredible economy and the economy that we built. Without the foundations and footings, it wouldnt have worked out this way. We wouldnt have some of the best numbers weve ever had. We also unlocked our energy resources and became the worlds number-one producer of oil and natural gas by far. Powered by these policies, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world. We reignited Americas job creation and achieved record-low unemployment for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, women  almost everyone. Incomes soared, wages boomed, the American Dream was restored, and millions were lifted from poverty in just a few short years. It was a miracle. The stock market set one record after another, with 148 stock market highs during this short period of time, and boosted the retirements and pensions of hardworking citizens all across our nation. 401(k)s are at a level theyve never been at before. Weve never seen numbers like weve seen, and thats before the pandemic and after the pandemic. We rebuilt the American manufacturing base, opened up thousands of new factories, and brought back the beautiful phrase: Made in the USA. To make life better for working families, we doubled the child tax credit and signed the largest-ever expansion of funding for childcare and development. We joined with the private sector to secure commitments to train more than 16 million American workers for the jobs of tomorrow. When our nation was hit with the terrible pandemic, we produced not one, but two vaccines with record-breaking speed, and more will quickly follow. They said it couldnt be done but we did it. They call it a medical miracle, and thats what theyre calling it right now: a medical miracle. Another administration would have taken 3, 4, 5, maybe even up to 10 years to develop a vaccine. We did in nine months. We grieve for every life lost, and we pledge in their memory to wipe out this horrible pandemic once and for all. When the virus took its brutal toll on the worlds economy, we launched the fastest economic recovery our country has ever seen. We passed nearly $4 trillion in economic relief, saved or supported over 50 million jobs, and slashed the unemployment rate in half. These are numbers that our country has never seen before. We created choice and transparency in healthcare, stood up to big pharma in so many ways, but especially in our effort to get favored-nations clauses added, which will give us the lowest prescription drug prices anywhere in the world. We passed VA Choice, VA Accountability, Right to Try, and landmark criminal justice reform. We confirmed three new justices of the United States Supreme Court. We appointed nearly 300 federal judges to interpret our Constitution as written. For years, the American people pleaded with Washington to finally secure the nations borders. I am pleased to say we answered that plea and achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. We have given our brave border agents and heroic ICE officers the tools they need to do their jobs better than they have ever done before, and to enforce our laws and keep America safe. We proudly leave the next administration with the strongest and most robust border security measures ever put into place. This includes historic agreements with Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, along with more than 450 miles of powerful new wall. We restored American strength at home and American leadership abroad. The world respects us again. Please dont lose that respect. We reclaimed our sovereignty by standing up for America at the United Nations and withdrawing from the one-sided global deals that never served our interests. And NATO countries are now paying hundreds of billions of dollars more than when I arrived just a few years ago. It was very unfair. We were paying the cost for the world. Now the world is helping us. And perhaps most importantly of all, with nearly $3 trillion, we fully rebuilt the American military  all made in the USA. We launched the first new branch of the United States Armed Forces in 75 years: the Space Force. And last spring, I stood at Kennedy Space Center in Florida and watched as American astronauts returned to space on American rockets for the first time in many, many years. We revitalized our alliances and rallied the nations of the world to stand up to China like never before. We obliterated the ISIS caliphate and ended the wretched life of its founder and leader, al Baghdadi. We stood up to the oppressive Iranian regime and killed the worlds top terrorist, Iranian butcher Qasem Soleimani. We recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. As a result of our bold diplomacy and principled realism, we achieved a series of historic peace deals in the Middle East. Nobody believed it could happen. The Abraham Accords opened the doors to a future of peace and harmony, not violence and bloodshed. It is the dawn of a new Middle East, and we are bringing our soldiers home. I am especially proud to be the first President in decades who has started no new wars. Above all, we have reasserted the sacred idea that, in America, the government answers to the people. Our guiding light, our North Star, our unwavering conviction has been that we are here to serve the noble everyday citizens of America. Our allegiance is not to the special interests, corporations, or global entities; its to our children, our citizens, and to our nation itself. As President, my top priority, my constant concern, has always been the best interests of American workers and American families. I did not seek the easiest course; by far, it was actually the most difficult. I did not seek the path that would get the least criticism. I took on the tough battles, the hardest fights, the most difficult choices because thats what you elected me to do. Your needs were my first and last unyielding focus. This, I hope, will be our greatest legacy: Together, we put the American people back in charge of our country. We restored self-government. We restored the idea that in America no one is forgotten, because everyone matters and everyone has a voice. We fought for the principle that every citizen is entitled to equal dignity, equal treatment, and equal rights because we are all made equal by God. Everyone is entitled to be treated with respect, to have their voice heard, and to have their government listen. You are loyal to your country, and my administration was always loyal to you. We worked to build a country in which every citizen could find a great job and support their wonderful families. We fought for the communities where every American could be safe and schools where every child could learn. We promoted a culture where our laws would be upheld, our heroes honored, our history preserved, and law-abiding citizens are never taken for granted. Americans should take tremendous satisfaction in all that we have achieved together. Its incredible. Now, as I leave the White House, I have been reflecting on the dangers that threaten the priceless inheritance we all share. As the worlds most powerful nation, America faces constant threats and challenges from abroad. But the greatest danger we face is a loss of confidence in ourselves, a loss of confidence in our national greatness. A nation is only as strong as its spirit. We are only as dynamic as our pride. We are only as vibrant as the faith that beats in the hearts of our people. No nation can long thrive that loses faith in its own values, history, and heroes, for these are the very sources of our unity and our vitality. What has always allowed America to prevail and triumph over the great challenges of the past has been an unyielding and unashamed conviction in the nobility of our country and its unique purpose in history. We must never lose this conviction. We must never forsake our belief in America. The key to national greatness lies in sustaining and instilling our shared national identity. That means focusing on what we have in common: the heritage that we all share. At the center of this heritage is also a robust belief in free expression, free speech, and open debate. Only if we forget who we are, and how we got here, could we ever allow political censorship and blacklisting to take place in America. Its not even thinkable. Shutting down free and open debate violates our core values and most enduring traditions. In America, we dont insist on absolute conformity or enforce rigid orthodoxies and punitive speech codes. We just dont do that. America is not a timid nation of tame souls who need to be sheltered and protected from those with whom we disagree. Thats not who we are. It will never be who we are. For nearly 250 years, in the face of every challenge, Americans have always summoned our unmatched courage, confidence, and fierce independence. These are the miraculous traits that once led millions of everyday citizens to set out across a wild continent and carve out a new life in the great West. It was the same profound love of our God-given freedom that willed our soldiers into battle and our astronauts into space. As I think back on the past four years, one image rises in my mind above all others. Whenever I traveled all along the motorcade route, there were thousands and thousands of people. They came out with their families so that they could stand as we passed, and proudly wave our great American flag. It never failed to deeply move me. I knew that they did not just come out to show their support of me; they came out to show me their support and love for our country. This is a republic of proud citizens who are united by our common conviction that America is the greatest nation in all of history. We are, and must always be, a land of hope, of light, and of glory to all the world. This is the precious inheritance that we must safeguard at every single turn. For the past four years, I have worked to do just that. From a great hall of Muslim leaders in Riyadh to a great square of Polish people in Warsaw; from the floor of the Korean Assembly to the podium at the United Nations General Assembly; and from the Forbidden City in Beijing to the shadow of Mount Rushmore, I fought for you, I fought for your family, I fought for our country. Above all, I fought for America and all it stands for  and that is safe, strong, proud, and free. Now, as I prepare to hand power over to a new administration at noon on Wednesday, I want you to know that the movement we started is only just beginning. Theres never been anything like it. The belief that a nation must serve its citizens will not dwindle but instead only grow stronger by the day. As long as the American people hold in their hearts deep and devoted love of country, then there is nothing that this nation cannot achieve. Our communities will flourish. Our people will be prosperous. Our traditions will be cherished. Our faith will be strong. And our future will be brighter than ever before. I go from this majestic place with a loyal and joyful heart, an optimistic spirit, and a supreme confidence that for our country and for our children, the best is yet to come. Thank you, and farewell. God bless you. God bless the United States of America."
