"Hello, everybody. Hello, Orlando. Hello, Sanford. It's great to be with you. Thank you. It's great to be back.  That's a lot of people. You know our competitor, sleepy Joe, he had a rally today and practically nobody showed up. I don't know what's going on. Sleepy Joe, but it's great to be back in my home state, Florida to make my official return to the campaign trail. I am so energized by your prayers and humbled by your support. We've had such incredible support and here we are. It's you know, here we are. But we're going to finish, we're going to make this country greater than ever before.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We've made tremendous progress. If you look at what we're doing with therapeutics and frankly, cures, we've made tremendous progress. And I said to my people, we are going to take whatever the hell they gave me and we're going to distribute it around to hospitals and everyone's going to have the same damn thing. We've all endured a lot together and we are doing better by far than we ever did in 2016. The enthusiasm is greater, the spirit is greater. We're going to have, if it's possible, an even greater and more important victory than we had just four years ago. And nobody ever said this fight was not going to be a hard one, but we will make it like you've never seen before. We are more successful now than we've ever been before, our military is rebuilt, take a look at what's going with their economy. I hate to say to the fake news, we're about to hit another stock market record, 401(k)s. Sleepy Joe Biden, not a nice guy, by the way, I have to be honest. He's not a nice guy. You know people say, oh, he's such a nice guy. He had a very bad day today. He had a very bad day. You saw what happened. If I ever had a day like he had today, they'd say it's over. It's over. No, Biden had a bad day. He forgot Mitt Romney's name, he didn't know what state he was in, and he said today he's a proud Democrat running for the U.S. Senate. No, you can't. You can't do it. It's the second time. Can you imagine if I did that? It's great to be with you. It's great to be a wonderful developer from New York. Let's say he's out of here, get him out. Now Biden had a bad day. He's got a lot of bad days coming. Look, look, we can't play games. The one thing I know for sure, President Xi of China did us no favor, President Putin of Russia, you look at around, Kim Jong-un, whatever happened to the war we were supposed to be in with Kim Jong-un, right? Kim Jong-un, they're 100% sharp. We have somebody running that's not 100%, he's not 80%, he's not 60%, we can't have this. As a country, we can't have it. Joe Biden is also owned by the radical globalists, the wealthy donors, the big money special interests who shipped away your jobs, shut down your factories, threw open your borders, and ravaged your cities while sacrificing American blood and treasure in this ridiculous -- endless wars, set of endless wars that we've been in for a long time, 19 years. They're all coming back home. You know that, right? They're all coming back home, our great warriors, our great soldiers. The corrupt political class is desperate to regain their power by any means necessary. We're the ones standing in their way. We're the ones standing up for the American worker, the American family, and for the American dream. And that's what we're doing in this beautiful evening, this beautiful evening in Florida. Oh, do I like Florida? Did we win Florida last time? Was that beautiful? We won it. You know everything I hear we're winning by a lot, then you turn on the fake news. They say the polls are tied in Florida. I don't get it, I don't. We had the same thing last year, remember? Four years ago we had the same thing. We're going to lose Florida, they said four years ago, by five points. They called that thing so early in the evening, we won by a lot and we're winning by a lot more now than we were four years ago. Twenty-two days from now, we're going to win this state. We're going to win four more years in the White House. We're going to make our country greater than it has ever been before.  Thank you, man. Thank you. This is the most important election in the history of our country and I used to say it in 2016. I'm sorry, at the time I thought it was. These people are crazy. We have to win. Most important we've ever had. Biden has made a corrupt bargain exchange for his party's nomination, he's handed control to the Socialists, the Marxists, and the left-wing extremists and you know that and he's got no strength left, he's got no power left.  He's got nothing going. If he wins, the radical left will be running the country and they're addicted to power and God help us if they ever got it because we would never have the same country again and you couldn't make a comeback. You don't make comebacks from where they take us. If I do that sound like a typical Washington politician is because, frankly, I'm not a politician. I'm embarrassed by the . And if I don't always play by the rules of Washington establishment is because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than anybody has ever fought for you. And I had a very nice life before this, I will tell you. It was a lot easier, but I love this and I would have never ever change because we are doing more for this country than any administration has ever done despite the witch hunts and the phony stuff that we caught them on now. We caught them cold and we'll see what happens with that. Just watch, stay tuned. Right now, I'm fighting to make sure we eradicate the virus, rebuild the economy, and save our country from the radical left. We're hitting record stock market numbers, record 401(k)s, record stocks, record job numbers. Don't blow it, don't blow it. Sleepy Joe wants to quadruple your taxes, you know, wants to quadruple.  How about where he gets caught again? He said, oh, no, we're not going to give a tax increase, but we're going to terminate all of the Trump tax cuts. Well, that's $2,000 plus child tax credits, plus all of the other things. You're talking about $6,000, $7,000, $8,000 a year. I don't think Florida is going to be paying that per -- per family. And you know, if you add energy into that, we have energy at an all-time low. We're energy independent. Nobody ever thought that was going to happen. And when you are paying less than $2 at the pump like you are, nobody ever thought you'd see those days again and those days are here for a long time if we're smart. We've been beating China. We've been beating everybody. Until the plague came in, we were teaching China like they've never been taught before and they know it and they've told me that and they never thought it could happen and we're very soon going to be doing it again. We achieved all of this despite the fact that we caught them cold. They were spying on our campaign. It's our campaign, it's our campaign not my campaign. They were spying on our campaign and illegally trying to take down a very, very straightforward, and legally sworn in administration. We were sworn in. They tried before the fact, they tried after the fact. We were a -- an adminis -- and you know, then they say, we want to know if you will agree with a friendly transfer of power. For four years, they've been trying to get us out of office. For years, they've been trying to get us out, but we'll take care of it all after the election. We caught them cold, we caught them cold, bad people, crooked Hillary. And by the way, Obama and Biden knew everything that was happening, OK? Just in case you had any questions. We'll take care of it after the election. Joe Biden and the Democrat Socialist, but that gives you another reason to go out and vote. We've got to get in because we know they'll just sweep it under the rug. Joe Biden and the Democrats Socialists will kill your jobs; dismantle your police departments; dissolve your borders, you know that; release criminal aliens; confiscate your guns, no more Second Amendment, get used to it; destroy your suburbs, and; drive God from the public square.  That's what's going to happen.  You saw in the Pledge of Allegiance during the Democrat National Convention, they took the word God out twice.  They said, oh, we made a mistake, excuse me. Then it happened the second time. We said, well, I guess that wasn't a mistake, right? Biden even refuses to answer questions on the packing of the Supreme Court. Nobody even thought of that for many, many, many decades and that's what they want to do. They can't get there legitimately. So they say that's all right. We'll just pack the court. We'll put a lot of super lefties on the court and we'll have a whole different country. Nope, not going to happen that way. We're not going to let it happen. You've got to get out and vote. You know, a lot of people said that I was elected because of the Supreme Court because I said I'm going to put great conservative constitutionalists, great judges on the Supreme Court. I don't know if it's true. But if it is true, it's more true now than it was four years ago. And you've got to get out and vote because they're going to destroy our country and they're going to destroy our U.S. Supreme Court and we can't let that happen. But who would've thought -- we're on number three. You know, other Presidents have never had any, they've never had any. We're at three already -- three and a half years. And I will say this, I will say this, it's driving them crazy. It's driving them crazy and Amy is fantastic, a great intellect, a great scholar. I think she's going to be a fantastic U.S. Supreme Court justice. As America saw earlier today in Amy's opening statement in the Senate, Judge Barrett, a brilliant scholar who will defend our laws, our rights, our freedom, and our constitution like very few people would have the capability of doing. The radical left is hell-bent on destroying everything we love and cherish. They're enraged and unhinged out of vengeance and nobody can believe what they're doing and where they're going, but we understand it. We understand their cancel culture. We're not letting them cancel culture us at all. We're proud of our country and we're proud of our heritage. They want to punish the middle class, expunge every last trace of traditional values, and replace the American dream with a socialist nightmare, and that's what it is. They want to turn America into communist Cuba, a socialist Venezuela, and ruin the lives of Hispanic Americans and all Americans. And I want to thank the Hispanic Americans down in Florida. You have been so incredible to Trump. Biden's agenda would be a catastrophe for Florida seniors. And by the way, you know, Biden was a big lover of Castro. You do know that, right?  And you know the deal that I broke, you saw that, right? As I came into office, Obama gave the whole planet away to Castro and I said no, thank you. We're not doing that. That's why we just got the Bay of Pigs Award from the Cuban Americans. Thank you very much and a lot of them are here. Thank you all very much, Bay of Pigs. For years, Biden tried to cut Social Security and Medicare, you know all about that. Now Biden is pledging mass amnesty and federal healthcare for illegal aliens. Now, we all have a heart and we all want to take care of people. But what you're doing is you're telling millions of people to pour up into our country. We're going to give you education, we're going to give you healthcare, we're going to give you everything. We can't do it. We can't afford it. We can't take care of our own people. We have to take care of our people first. And if they let that happen, you would be decimating Medicare and destroying your Social Security. While I'm President, no one will touch your Medicare, no one will touch or hurt in any way, shape or form your Social Security. With your vote, I will finish building the strongest economy the world has ever seen and we were there. Last year was the greatest year in the history of the state of Florida. And I have to say, it was practically that way for almost every state in the union. But it was Florida's best year, the year coming is going to be -- and you're going to see a great third-quarter set of numbers coming out very soon, just before the election. So I'm putting myself on the spot. The third-quarter numbers are going to be record-setting phenomenal numbers. Next year is going to be the best year we've ever had economically.  But as I've done from the beginning, I will keep every promise and I will always put America first. You haven't heard that, right? You haven't heard that from other people. Under my leadership, we're delivering a safe vaccine and a rapid recovery like nobody can even believe. And if you look at our upward path, no country in the world has recovered the way we've recovered economically or otherwise, not even close. And if you vote for me, prosperity will surge. Normal life. That's what we want. We want a normal life. We'll fully resume and the Florida tourism and hospitality industries that I know so well will reach historic new highs, highs like they've never reached before. Biden would terminate our recovery, delay the vaccine, prolong the pandemic, and annihilate Florida's economy with the draconian unscientific lockdown. That's what he wants to do, lock it down. Lock it down, everybody. And you know what, if you don't feel good about going out, stay, relax, stay. You know the risk groups, you know the older people, see, fortunately, I'm not an old person and I'm very young and I'm in such perfect shape, right? I'm in such great shape. You know, I said that the other day, what are your ? I said, well, I'm very young and I'm in great shape, perfect shape. And they said Donald Trump misrepresented today again. He said he was in great shape, but he's very young. These people are the sickest of them all.  But the World Health Organization, did you see what happened? They just came out a little while ago and they admitted that Donald Trump was right. The lockdowns are doing tremendous damage to these Democrat-run states where they're locked out, sealed up, suicide rates, drug rates, alcoholism, deaths by so many different forms. You can't do that. And I want to just congratulate the Governor and everybody in Florida. You're open and open for business and doing great. And we've got to remember, I said it right at the beginning, the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself, it can't. The cure cannot be worse, but if you don't feel good about it, if you want to stay, stay, relax, stay. But if you want to get out there, get out. One thing with me, the nice part, I went through it. Now, they say I'm immune. I can feel -- I feel so powerful. I'll walk into that audience. I'll walk in there. I'll kiss everyone in that audience. I'll kiss the guys and the beautiful women and then everybody. I'll just give you a big fat kiss. No, but there is something nice -- I don't have to be locked up in my basement and I wouldn't allow that to happen anyway. I wouldn't allow it to happen. When you're the President, you can't lock yourself in a basement and say I'm not going to bother with the world. You've got to get out and it's risky, it's risky, but you got to get out. But it does give you good -- a good feeling when you can beat something and now they say you're immune. I don't know for how long. Some people say for life, some people say for four months. I mean every time I think about it, every time I hear that we get shorter and shorter and shorter that because they want it to be as bad as possible. But it's, uh -- it is a great feeling. I want to thank, by the way, the Walter Reed Medical Hospital, Johns Hopkins, these guys are incredible. You know, we're 90% better now than we were six, seven months ago in terms of a cure for people that get really sick, 90%. It's incredible what -- what's happened and with children, it's 99.9%. You're going to be OK. You're going to be OK, 99.9%. They have a little better immune system. We just learned that, better than you have, right? Better than we all have, but we love our children, but we have to get our schools open. We have to get our businesses going back. We have to get our country rolling and it is rolling. You're going to see that when the numbers come out. The Biden virus plan and you got to remember, he took H1N1, which he always calls N1H1, he gets it mixed up. I said, no, Joe, H comes first, but it's called the swine flu, right? And his own person, his Chief of Staff said that he was -- it was a disaster they way they ran it, a much less lethal problem, but a disaster the way they ran it, a total catastrophe. It was so bad, it was so bad. And then he says, I'm going to tell him what to do. But when I locked down China, he thought it was a terrible thing. He called me xenophobic, right? When I locked down China, which was in January, months earlier than what he said. Then ultimately, he admitted I'm right, but then he said, oh, he should've acted faster. Well, this was months later, then, he says I should have acted fast, nobody acted fast like I did. I also shut down, locked down Europe, if you remember. And the bottom line is, we saved millions of lives. When this first came out, if we didn't do a good job, they predicted 2.2 million people would die, we're 210,000. We shouldn't be at, one, it's China's fault. They allowed this to happen. They allowed it to escape, they allowed it to escape China, but 2.2 million people would have died. Just remember that -- just remember that, a fact they don't like talking about. I have such respect for the people of this country, the way they've handled that. It's been an incredible -- it's been an incredible love fest together. That's really what it's been. And sympathies from all of us to those people who -- whose family members have died, whose friends -- I've lost friends, I've lost friends.  Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. You're going to love me even more. You're going to love me even more because we're years ahead on vaccines and they're going to be distributed very shortly. I mean, frankly, it's a big political deal going on, where they don't want it to be before the election. Don't let it be, but we have great vaccines coming, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer. I mean we have great, great things happening with the vaccines. I think even greater with the cures and with the therapeutics. And maybe it's why I'm here with you, maybe it's not. I'm not sure. I know one thing, I was very happy to take it, that I could tell you. But through Operation Warp Speed, we're on track to have 100 million vaccine doses before the end of this year and they'll be delivered by the military and they're all set to go. They're waiting for them, waiting for final approval, and that vaccine will end the pandemic. But we're also launching a historic effort to bring your medical supply chains back home. In 1996, Joe Biden voted to obliterate Puerto Rico's thriving pharmaceutical industry. Remember, they used to have a great pharmaceutical industry. He cut it out and when he cut it out, he sent Puerto Rico into a nosedive like nobody's ever seen before. So we're bringing it all back and we're bringing it back to Florida, too. We're bringing it all the way back, taking our jobs away from China. We're bringing them back from China. I'll reverse Biden's catastrophic decision. We'll bring it all back. The drug industry is coming back into Puerto Rico coming back into, by the way, Pennsylvania, coming back into North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, coming back into Michigan, coming back into Ohio, we're bringing it all back. Last month, I also announced an additional $13 billion in disaster relief for Puerto Rico and for Florida. Have I taken care of Florida? Oy, have I taken care of Florida? My administration's allocated over $60 billion and if you look at Florida, well, your great Governors, your last two Governors. They've been great. Your last two Senators great. They're always calling and asking for money, but I guess that's what they're supposed to be doing and I'm always giving it when it comes to Florida. The panhandle got hit really hard over the last two years. We took care of the panhandle. So days ago, I was honored to receive the endorsement of the Governor of Puerto Rico. Can you believe that, right? Wanda Vazquez Garced and she was so nice and we're also joined by several great Puerto Rican community leaders, Jay Rosario, Gabe Ruiz, Daisy Lopez, Mayra Guzman-Kaslow, and candidate for Congress Dr. Leo Valentin. Please, where are you? Where are you? I'm not going to say the best, but I'm just about the best thing that ever happened to Puerto Rico. You'd better vote for me, Puerto Rico, you'd better vote for me, but I'll always be fighting for Puerto Rico. It was very unfair the way they were treated by Democrats. And while Biden will surrender your jobs to China, your country and your fellow politicians, and I have a lot of great ones right here, including your Governor. Wow, but we would never going to surround -- and we will never allow ourselves to even think about surrendering to the left-wing mob, they're on the run, they're on the run. Better not have them have a little bit of a victory because if they have even a little victory, it's not going to be good. I'm bringing our jobs back home and putting violent criminals behind bars. I'm working with your political leaders. We've also directed the FBI to immediately investigate the destruction of the Teddy Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln statues in Portland and to prosecute the offenders to the fullest extent of federal law. Biden's supporters are causing mayhem in the streets. If he wins, there will be nothing but bedlam all over the place, but he is not going to win. If he won, he may be the worst Presidential candidate in history and I got him, I got him. It actually puts more pressure on you if you ran against a great candidate, there's actually less pressure. If you want to know the truth.  Thank you. Thank you. Now we want to keep our country great. We're bringing it to a level that it's never been. Our military has equipment the likes of which nobody has ever seen, no country has ever seen, all made in the USA, rockets, missiles, tanks, ships. The likes of which, jet fighters, bombers, tankers, the likes of which, no country has ever seen before. Our nuclear arsenal is the strongest by far in the world, the strongest it's ever been, and hope to God, we never have to even think about using it. And the way you won't have to use it is to have it. At our debate, Biden could not name a single law enforcement organization that supports him, not one. And that's because and, by the way, did Vice President Mike Pence do a great job, right? He did a great job. But it's because Biden and Harris, that's another great one. There was nobody so mean to Biden than her, nobody. And so, brilliantly, I said he can't pick her because nobody treated him as badly, although, I will say this, had Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren got out prior to Super Tuesday, we would have had Bernie instead. But I'd rather have Biden because he's now alienated the left. He's alienated the right. Nobody knows what the hell he stands for, how about Pennsylvania? He goes to Pennsylvania, for a year and a half, he's against fracking. Today, he gets the nomination through a little luck because she didn't get out. So she took all of Bernie's votes, right? But gets enough -- but the following day, he said I'm in favor of fracking, but he's not and it doesn't matter because the radical left will never let Pennsylvania and Texas and Oklahoma and North Dakota and Ohio, never let them frack. That's over with. But can you imagine? And the press, you know, which is fake and corrupt, the press never said have you ever heard them ask?  No, have you ever heard them ask once? Well, wait a minute, for one year, you said there will be no fracking and he said it strongly, right? You know, read my lips, right, to use an old expression? Read my lips, there would be no fracking. That didn't work out too well. So now he goes and he says there will be fracking. Not once have I asked, have I heard the question. Not once have I asked, why Hunter was able to take $3.5 million from the wife of the Mayor of Moscow. Not once have I heard these frauds back there, not once have I heard the fake news, not once have I heard them say, $1 billion. If you don't change that prosecutor, you're not getting the $1 billion. And then he goes, wow, the prosecutor was changed, the prosecutor against the son. Not once have I heard them talking about that question. Can you imagine if we did that? And on top of everything else, the Democrat party declared war on our great police and law enforcement. That's what it is.  So I proudly received the endorsement of the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the National Troopers Coalition, the International Union of Police Associations, the National Latino Police Officers Association, the Florida Police Chiefs, and all of these incredible organizations plus all over the country. And when I asked them, name one organization, give me one organization during our debate, where he was saved by the moderator about four times, he couldn't answer it. Name one law enforcement organization, he couldn't name one. Then I said, say the words law enforcement just say it, he couldn't do it, he couldn't say it. We're joined tonight by a great group of people, warriors, really warriors. He came to me a couple of years ago said, sir, I want to run for Governor. I said, Ron, I don't know. Do they know you well enough? But he was a great defender and a brilliant guy, Harvard, Yale, top of his class, smart as hell. Nobody knows how smart, don't tell too many people. He likes to catch you by surprise, but he's a great, great guy, and he's been a great friend. I said all right, I'll endorse you. I endorsed him and the rest, he went like a rocket ship and he handled the pressure and -- and his wife Casey is better than him. I've been saying it for a long time, Governor Ron DeSantis and Casey. Great guy, great, great couple, great, great couple, smart, brilliant. Sit down, please, uh, really just a great, great group of people. Those people are great and he surrounds himself with incredible people with the exception of course of Representative Matt Gaetz. Oh, Matt Gaetz. You talk about a warrior, right? Ron, what do you think, huh? Matt Gaetz is a great man, a great gentleman, and what a future he has. I don't know about swap it, but I think he might. Great, thank you, Matt. Thank you. Thank you both for being here. I appreciate it. John Rutherford, where's John? John? Thank you, John. Mike Waltz. Mike, thank you. Thank you. Nice couple. Gus Bilirakis, Gus, Gus, Congressional candidate, somebody who's supposed to be, potentially a superstar, but we've heard that a lot. Sometimes it works out. It's going to, in his case, Scott Franklin. Scott, thank you. Oh, he's got the look, he could be -- that's good. You're a good thing. Hey, Scott, going well? How's he doing? Ron, he's doing good? Ron says you're doing good, good. You've got to win it. Thank you, Scott, very much. Uh, Kimberly, where's Kimberly? Kimberly, thank you. I watched you coming in speaking. I said that's a lot to follow. Kimberly is great. I want to thank Kimberly. And finally, we're joined by a group of amazing supporters who recently walked away from the Democrats and will be voting for us. We have a lot of them, a lot of them, and a lot of them in law enforcement. A lot of law enforcement, they were Democrats. In some cases, they left their party. In other cases, they just didn't know we're voting for Trump. I said why are you doing that? We have no choice. I said you're right, you're right, but nobody has been better to law enforcement than I have. You know when I first came in, we gave away hundreds of millions of dollars of military equipment that was in storage. It wasn't doing anybody any good. It was collecting dust, probably paying rent all over the place. That's probably why they had it, come to think of it. Well, look how far that crowd goes back. Hey, hey, cameras, will you please -- oh, man, look at that. Wow, man. That's -- that's into those hangars.  Wow. You know, these are the real polls. So when did you hear about this meeting, like a day ago? These are the real polls, right? The other guy, gets out there and he -- they work and work and work and 30 people show up, they put him in those crazy circles, right? They only have the circles because that's the only way they can fill up the room, it's true. But that's a fantastic group of people. Thank you. Same thing over here. I wish the fake news would turn the cameras. You know for a long time, I didn't think the cameras move that way. But then anytime there was a little sign of problems, they could twist around like a pretzel and I realized they could, but they don't like to show those crowds. But that is a massive amount. I don't know how many people are here, but we've got a lot. I want to thank you. So this evening, we're also praying for all of the families on the Florida Panhandle affected by Hurricane Sally. And I will tell you, Ron and Marco and everybody, I'll tell you, Rick, everybody has been calling and calling, Matt Gaetz has been going driving us a little crazy. Matt, you could take it a little easy, but that's what somebody that's good is supposed to do, right? He's supposed to call, but we take care of the panhandle and we're doing it at a level that's never been done before and I've done it. I think I can say right from the beginning, right? I tell the story about Ron DeSantis. He came to see me, he just became Governor. We had a hurricane. Sir, thank you very much for the money you sent to the Panhandle in Florida. I appreciate it. Good, Ron, good. I hope it's enough. Good. Spend it well. I get a call like three days later. Sir, can I see you? No, I'm in Washington, I said you don't have to come up, tell me. No, no, no, it's very important. Sir, he comes into the Oval Office. Sir, could we have an extra $500 million? I said, Ron, will it ever end, Ron? And one thing I found out, it never ends for the Panhandle and for Ron, but we take care of it. Right, Ron? We take care of it. Oh, great, great people. You have great people, they're warriors, I'll tell you, they're warriors, they're fighters. We need more people like that. I will tell you. Last month, they approved a major disaster declaration for the state of Florida and I'll be with you through every step of the rebuilding and you'll be hit with others. The one thing we know about Florida, you're very good at this stuff. You get hit by hurricanes and you rebuild and you rebuild fast and it's incredible. I've watched, I've watched, and you don't want much help me either. You're proud people, you're incredible people, you put it back together. But we're there for you all the way and we're there monetarily and we're there with FEMA. And I think, Ron, FEMA has been incredible, haven't they, right? Yeah, they've been incredible. Thank you to FEMA. We have a lot of FEMA people here right over there. We've spent the last four years reversing the damage Biden has inflicted over the last 47 years with that ridiculous dumb thought NAFTA, TPP, and China's entry into the World Trade Organization, a disaster for our country. You know China is considered a developing nation, I stopped that, China's capacity to develop. In other words, China, they're so wonderful, they're developing, isn't that nice? Now by being a developing nation, they get much more benefits than a nation that's not a developing. So I said, well, we're a developing nation, too, if they're a developing nation, and we just won, you know this, we just won $7.5 billion from the World Trade Organization. And from the World Health Organization, I took us out. They said, why did you do that? I said number one, they were wrong in everything, although, they corrected themselves today and they said I was right or the lockdowns. But I said, number two, why are we paying $500 million a year and China which has 1.4 billion people is paying $39 million a yea"
"Hello, everybody. Hello, Duluth. Hello, Duluth. Oh, thank you. Thirty-four days from now, we're going to win Minnesota. We're going to go and win four more beautiful years in the White House and do more than anybody's ever done before for the White House. We're looking to set records. I really enjoyed last night's debate with sleepy Joe. I brought those hats out here because Minnesota's a little on the windy side and like a genius, I sent them all out, now I'm getting blown to pieces and that's fine. That's OK. I love it. I'd love you to have whatever we have, we have it together, that I can tell you. The verdict is in and they say that we -- we all of us, won big last night. And I don't know, did you hear about this? In the history of cable television, had the highest ratings of any show in the history of cable television and it had the second-highest ratings of overall television in the history of television. Does anybody know what was first, like M*A*S*H or something, I guess, M*A*S*H? No, they had the final episode of M*A*S*H and I don't know what was first, does everybody know? But we were second in the history of all of television. But the biggest ratings in the history of cable television, it's an honor. Last night I did what the corrupt media has refused to do. I held Joe Biden accountable for his 47 years of lies, 47 years of betrayal, and 47 years of failure. I held Joe accountable for shipping your jobs and dreams abroad and for bowing to the violent mob at home. Can you imagine these people the way they take over these Democrats? It is -- I don't even believe it. The whole nation saw the truth. Did you see last night? Name one -- I said sleepy Joe, name one law enforcement group that supports you, and then Chris Wallace says, don't do that, that's not -- can you believe this guy? I was debating two people last night. I was debating two people last night. Joe Biden is too weak to lead this country. You know Biden lost badly when his supporters are saying he should cancel the rest of the debates. Now I understand he's canceling the debates. Let's see what happens. I think that's not going to be a good move for him.  I don't think that's going to be a good move. I know in television with those ratings they're never going to let him cancel, you don't do television like that. What are they going to do? You know someday, we're not going to be doing this anymore. What are they going to do without Trump? What are they going to do? Oh, those poor people. Look at all of them, whoa, that's a lot of people. What are they going to do? What are they going to do when in eight, twelve, maybe sixteen years? I said, let's hang it up, let's hang it up, 16 more years. But what he's doing is what you do when you lose, so let's see what he does. I don't think he's going to get it out. And I've got news for Joe, if you ever became President, you have to deal with some of the toughest people in the world, and Chris Wallace is very, very easy by comparison, I will tell you. I know them all. I know them all. Liberal media is upset that I took the fight to Biden and exposed his very dangerous agenda. Oh, there's a beauty. Here we go. Here we go. There's another beauty out there. Go home to mom, go home. Go home to mom. These are the same media outlets cheering violent demonstrations in the streets, CNN, The New York Times. They think rioting is just OK, just do whatever you want.  You can do whatever you want, you don't have to wear a mask, you just riot 25,000 people standing on each others' face, do whatever you want. Can you go to church? No. Can you go to restaurants? No. Can you do anything? No. But you can riot, that's OK. Arson's OK, but challenging sleepy Joe is totally off-limits. Oh, so disappointed in Fox. I'm not just running against Joe Biden, I'm running against the corrupt far-left media socialists and communists in the Democrat party and the special interests who've made a living bleeding our country dry, and that's what's happened for too long. We've turned it around. But don't forget, when they turned it around, I had to fight other things like a fake impeachment. I had to fight a lot of things that are not like -- that wasn't in the agenda, never forget and we fought it very well. And frankly, we had great support from the Republican party except for one person but that's all right. We had great support. Never forget, they are coming after me because I am fighting for you and that's true, and this is a choice election. Our opponents put America last, I put America first, and that's what I've been doing for three and a half years. Our opponents want to erase borders. I will defend our borders. Do you see what's going on in the Southern border? By the way, that wall, 350 miles already. It's going to be finished very soon. They don't talk about the wall anymore, fellas, what's going on? They don't talk about it. They used to talk about it every day. He's not going to get his financing, but when you're a real estate developer you always get financing, this business like easy. He's not going to get his financing. Then we got our finance, they don't talk about it anymore. We're up to 300, almost 360 miles. We're doing it about 10 miles a week and yeah, Mexico is paying for it. You do know that, right? They keep saying it's going to be a border charge at the border for the trucks and cars and it won't even have to be a lot. There's so many cars and trucks going through, but Mexico's paying for it, and they've been great. They have 27,000 soldiers right now on our border and we appreciate it. We appreciate the President of Mexico. Our opponents will send your jobs to China. I will keep your jobs in America. Our opponents want to erase our nation's core values and I want to defend, preserve our nation's historic values. Our opponents stand with rioters. I stand with the heroes of law enforcement. Did you see last night? I said say the words, Joe, don't even say good or bad. Sleepy Joe, say law enforcement. He goes, no, I'd rather not. Say law enforcement, sleepy Joe. Law enforcement with safety. No, no, no, just law enforcement. They tell me that all the time, too. Please, just say law enforcement with safety, sir. No, it's just law enforcement. It's very simple, it's a very simple term, not with safety, on safety. I mean, it's law enforcement. He wouldn't say it, right? Then I said name one group in the entire nation, I've got Minnesota now, I've got everybody. Name one group in the entire nation from law enforcement that's supporting you. Well, well, well, uh -- Then, Chris Wallace, OK, let's go to the next question. He's in trouble, he's in trouble. Let me protect him for Fox. Joe Biden says and Antifa is just an idea.  Well, ideas don't assault cops and they don't burn down buildings. Antifa is a domestic terrorist organization. I proudly received the endorsement of the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the National Troopers Coalition, the International Union of Police Associations, and law enforcement organizations and departments in Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan, missed -- Minnesota, good. I was getting -- I was getting worried. Texas, New York's finest, they've never done it before, they came in, New York's finest. These are great people. They could solve that problem in two minutes, all they want is their authority back. It's been taken away from them, horribly. New York's finest never endorsed a candidate for President before and they're great people. They can do it. New Jersey, Illinois, and many, many more. I will bore you, but I could go on all night. I just said, Joe, give me one, please. He was joking. He was -- I'll tell you, he got saved. Joe Biden is saying he owns the socialism and extremism in his party, that he owns it. He is -- you know it's not his party, it's not Joe's party. That's not -- you've got crazy Bernie, you have AOC plus three, you've got all these crazy people, these maniacs, you've got the Green New Deal. How about the Green New Deal? He disavowed it.  Then he said, no, I agree with it. I said, Joe, it's $100 trillion, that's more money than this country can make in the next hundred years if everything's perfect. It's so crazy. It's -- he wants to rebuild every building in the village, and take it down and rebuild every building. Let's say, does that include the Empire State building? Let's take it down and rebuild it. These people are crazy, no more cows, no more airplanes, no more nothing. Biden even vowed to eliminate our tax cuts. That means you'll take away your child tax credits because I gave you child tax credits, thousand -- $1,000 a child. He wants to take away what I gave you and revoke our historical tax relief, right to the middle class it went. Joe Biden also refused to answer questions about packing the Supreme Court. Don't you love the Supreme Court? I mean how good -- how good is Amy? How good is Amy? How good is Amy? You know her professor at Notre Dame, one of the most highly respected --  Fill that seat, fill that seat, you better believe it. How good is she? So her professor, one of her professors, one of the most highly respected legal scholars in the country said, I've been teaching for a long time, said she is the finest -- she was first in her class, graduated first in her class. He said she is the finest student he's ever had. Of all the students, thousands of students, she is the single best student that he's ever had. No, he's saying, you know, she ought to run for President instead of Joe. He was like last in his class. She had her -- can you imagine? This is a big difference, I don't know. How do you like Amy for the Supreme Court, yes? If he gets elected, the hard left will appoint radical justices who will terminate the Second Amendment, no more guns, no more guns.  As you all saw, Biden also refused to explain why his son, Hunter was paid $3.5 billion, protected by Chris, by the wife of the former Mayor of Moscow and they talk about me with Russia. I have nothing to do with Russia and took out $1.5 billion from China, he manages, makes millions of dollars a year, right? Then he got the $183 -- right? $183,000 a month. Would anybody like that job? You don't have a job, you're not employed, you get thrown out of the military for unfortunate reasons, your father becomes Vice President and you get hired for one $183,000 a month, with I think, a $3 million upfront payment. I think they could have had him for less. Would anybody take that job? And he knows nothing about energy, what do you know about energy? Well, that's not my thing. Oh, that's OK. I mean, could you imagine if I did it? How about when sleepy Joe said you're not getting the $1 billion unless you get rid of the prosecutor. When you get rid of the prosecutor, we'll send you the money. They got rid of the prosecutor, he said now the money comes. I mean can you imagine if I said that? Unbelievable. And the press doesn't want to talk about it and Chris Wallace say we'll we -- we don't want to discuss that. Oh, really, Chris? Oh, it's so sad, I'll tell you, it's so hypocritical, it's so sad. This is a matter of national security and economic security. The Bidens got rich while American workers got robbed. How can you deal with China if you take out $3.5 billion and make all sorts of money? How can you do it? A critical issue in this election, you saw what I did with China, billions, and billions a year they pay us. I gave a lot of it to the farmers, $28 billion, a critical issue because they were targeted by China. A critical issue in this election is the future of the Minnesota Iron Range, you know that. That's why I'm here. This was just supposed to be a little get-together and then they said, sir, we got thousands of people who want to show up. I don't know. I don't know how many are involved, but this was supposed to be an Iron Range get together, but it turns out big. You know, Biden has 20, 30 people, he's got those circles. Today, he had a little bit more like 30 or 40, but they were too close together. I sent him a note, dear, Joe. They were too close, 34 people right next to each other, and yet he complained about our rally, right? Our rallies -- no, it's an honor that so many people showed up because this was going to be a little quickie just to say congratulations because Obama closed the Iron Range and I opened it. And a man -- a man came up to me, a tough man, a man who -- a worker, a construction worker, real worker, and he looked at me. This is two years ago. He said, sir, you've given us back our life and he was crying. And I said when was the last time you cried? He said I can't remember. I said you never cried when you were a little baby, you never cried. This was not a crier, this guy was tough as hell. He said, sir, he took our -- our life away. And let me tell you about Joe, Joe will reinstitute that ban in two minutes if we lose. You better vote for me, Minnesota, really. I mean honestly, you should vote for me. He said you gave -- you gave our lives back, a lot of lives, thousands of jobs, and they closed it up.  As Vice President, Joe Biden wiped out -- he wiped out so much and that includes what he wiped out in the state of Minnesota and we're not going to let it happen anymore, we're not going to let it happen anymore. Thousands and thousands of workers, we're not going to let it happen anymore. They were all laid off and now they're all back. And by the way, they say, what the hell do I know about iron ore? What I've -- with a lot of steel and a lot of iron over the years, but you know, they say it's the greatest iron ore anywhere in the world and you should have it. After I put tariffs on foreign steel, the Iron Range came roaring back. But the biggest thing I did was knock out his executive order. I've knocked out so much of the things that he did. He can't -- he can't like me too much. I would say he doesn't like me too much. Hey, did you see what happened with the FBI today? They caught them cold, Comey either has the worst memory in history -- did you see? I don't remember that. Did you spy on President Trump's campaign? Gee, I don't remember that. Did you go for a coup? Did you go for a coup? Uh, I don't -- I don't remember,  I'll tell you, we caught them cold. It's about time that something happens, OK? It's about time that something happens. It's enough. We've got plenty of information on these crooks, bunch of crooks. A thing like that's never happened in the history of our country and it's about time that something happens. We rescinded the federal withdrawal in Superior National Forest. You'll know all about that. You people especially to restore mineral exploration for the iron ore miners in Minnesota. What we've done for Minnesota, if I lose Minnesota, I'm never coming back. I don't  I'm never coming back. We protected Iron Range workers from frivolous lawsuits. That was a big deal, right? The frivolous lawsuits. We started construction on Soo Locks to get iron ore to market very quickly, so not only did we open it, we get it to market, we fixed the locks because you couldn't even get it out. Those things were so old and broken, now they're going to be, very shortly in perfect shape. I opened up permitting for copper, nickel mining, anybody involved there? Oh, it sounded a little far out, but still a lot of people doing it. And I strongly support the replacement of the decaying line three pipelines. We're going to replace that. It's all done, it's all done. All of this is why nine Democrat Mayors of cities in the Iron Range have endorsed me over sleepy Joe Biden. Are they here tonight? I don't know if they're here tonight. These people are fantastic. Look at these great Congressmen, where are they? Oh, stand up. Wow. We had a ceremony a month ago, where I introduced every one of them. You know, I'm not introducing you again, it's freezing out here, but I want to thank you. You're great people, you're great Mayors, and I appreciate the support very much. These are Democrats have voted for -- they want to vote for Trump, that endorsed me fully. We've done a good job over there, everything in good shape, right? Good. Thank you very much. It's a great honor. If Joe gets in, the radical left will shut down the Iron Range forever. It's going to be gone and I'm not going to be able to open it again, not easy to open a thing like that, not easy, a lot more difficult than people would think. Earlier today, I took another historic step for your state when I signed an executive order providing billions of dollars to jumpstart the production of critical and other minerals, which will create countless jobs and are so important for our country, minerals. I will always protect the State of Minnesota. I will do that. It's been very good to me. We almost won it, we almost won it. One more speech. I had a choice, I do Michigan, which we won, I do. I should have done it both. One more speech, we lost by very little. Think of that though, it hasn't been won by a Republican. I don't get that because the Democrats have done such a lousy, pathetic job. It hasn't been won since 1972. Reagan lost it, it was the only state he lost, remember? So we're going to change that, we've got to change it. Who's going to do what we've done for you, right? Another massive issue for Minnesota is the election of Joe Biden's plan to inundate your state with a historic flood of refugees.  Biden and crazy Bernie Sanders have agreed on a manifesto. Did you see last night? I didn't agree, I didn't agree, after the show. They said, no, actually he did. Oh, great. They fact check, they found out he made a mistake, slight mistake. It's the worst thing you've ever seen, but they pledged a 700% increase in refugees, 700%.  Congratulations, Minnesota, congratulations. No, what about Omar she gets caught harvesting?  What the hell is going on? I hope your U.S. attorney is involved, what -- what is going on with Omar? I've been reading these reports for two years about how corrupt and crooked she is.  Let's get on with it, let's get with it. I mean, frankly, harvesting's terrible, but it's the least of the things that she has done. How the hell -- and then she tells us how to run our country. Can you believe it? How the hell did Minnesota elect her? What the hell is wrong with you people, right? What the hell happened? These guys in the -- stand up. Are you -- are you a big fan of Omar? I don't think so. Stand up. Look at this guy, he looks like nobody's going to fight him. I don't think you're a big fan of Omar, right? No, she's been crooked for a long time. This is the least of it. It's time and you know what, AOC also, it's time, it's time. You take a look at what the corruption, the disgusting corruption, 700% increase, refugees coming from the most dangerous places in the world, including Yemen, Syria, and your favorite country, Somalia, right? You love Somalia.  This guy loves Somalia. Biden will turn Minnesota into a refugee camp, and he said that overwhelming public resources, overcrowding schools, and inundating your hospitals, you know that. It's already there. It's a disgrace what they've done to your state. It's -- it's absolute -- it's a disgrace, OK? Biden has even pledged to terminate our travel ban on jihadist regions, opening the floodgates to radical Islamic terrorism. Remember, I used to talk about it all the time? I got a ban, remember, they said he'd never be able to get a ban? And then I lost at the lower court, I lost at the Court of Appeals, and they said he lost, he lost. Huge  and then I won at the Supreme Court, they didn't even report it, yeah. And they still say he lost on the travel ban, he lost, he lost, but they are talking about the first two courts. They forget to say that the Supreme Court ruled -- this is the most dishonest people. It's hard to believe actually, but look at all those cameras, that's a lot. They love it. I love -- every time I'm getting ready, you know, they've gotten very good at this. Every time I'm getting ready to hit them, the lights just go off, you know those red lights? They go -- my administration is keeping terrorists, extremists, and criminals out of our country and we're keeping them the hell out of Minnesota, and we've ended the refugee influx into your state. You were one of the most hard-hit states for whatever reason. We've ended it. You know that, right? Do you know that? Does anybody know this? Does anybody know this? I don't think they tell you about it, but you know they talk about the suburbs, women in the suburbs. I ended a regulation that nobody would have done. This brings public housing, low-income housing into the suburbs. And by the way, just so we can get this straight, 30% of the people in the suburbs are low-income people, 30% of the people in the suburbs are minorities. And so, we're ruining this American dream for everybody, but he's got a plan. It's the worst thing you've ever seen having to do with zoning. They'll zone you out, they build low-income housing next year house, it's crazy. And then I hear, I'm not doing well in the suburbs, I'm not doing well in the suburbs. Are you people crazy? Are you crazy? I just explained this, no, I just explained it. Thank you. No, it's crazy and they came to me, great people. Ben Carson, a lot of great people and they came to me, they said, sir, why don't we just amend it? I said no, really I want it out. I want it over. I want it ended. Well, it would be a lot easier to amend it. I said, no, I want it over. It's not right. It's killing your suburbs and it is. It's killing your suburbs. And then, they say women in the suburbs don't like President Trump. I don't think so. That happened last time, remember? That happened last -- remember, last time? They said he will not do well with women, he will not do well with women, he will not do well with women. These were the idiots on election night four years ago. He will not do -- this will be a very short night for Donald Trump at the time. This will be a very short -- and at the end, they said he did really well with women. It's sort of weird. Anyway, we did well with everybody, actually, and we're going to do even better now. We have more enthusi -- look at this crowd. This was supposed to be a few people. This was supposed to be -- this was supposed to be just a little celebration. I said, oh, good, a little celebration. I figured a couple of hundred people like sleepy Joe gets in his best day. I said, how many people? About 10,000, sir. I said, oh, that's nice. In just three and a half years, we've secured America's border, rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S. military, obliterated the ISIS caliphate, fixed our disastrous trade deals and they were a disaster, and brought jobs back home to America and back home to Minnesota. We brought a lot of jobs back. Last year before the plague came in from China, you had the best year you've ever had. The year before that, you had the best year you've ever had until the following year and we're doing it again. We're building it up rapidly. China came up, they gave us the plague. It's no good. We're never going to forget that. I did a trade deal, the ink wasn't even dry and they let that happen. We're never going to forget it. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and now we are quickly doing it again. We've added a historic 10.6 million jobs in the last four months. That's a record, the likes of which has never even been close to being challenged. To fight the China virus, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. We pioneered lifesaving therapies, reducing the fatality rate 85% since April. Think of that, meaning, you go to the hospital and you got a lot better chance. I tell you what, I spoke to a gentleman today from Pfizer. I speak to all of these guys. These are great people and they're coming up with things that are phenomenal, Regeneron. We are coming up with things that are phenomenal, including therapeutics. With therapies, it's incredible what's happening. You'll be seeing it, you'll be seeing it very -- and by the way with Biden, it would have been years before you came up with any of this stuff, years, it would have been years. He complains you didn't act fast enough, and yet, he's all over the place calling me xenophobic because I closed the border. OK, how do you figure that one? This guy, just a politician, he's just another politician, 47 years he hasn't done a damn thing, but now he's going to, but now he's going to -- I haven't done a thing in 47 years, but now I'm going to. Europe is almost a 50% greater excess mortality rate than the United States. You don't hear that. Through Operation Warp Speed, we will develop and distribute a vaccine in record time. It's going to be very, very soon and before the end of the year, maybe sooner than that. On November 3rd, Minnesota will decide, whether we end this pandemic, defeat the virus, and return to record prosperity. Either way, we're returning, either way, we're going to have the vaccine. We're rounding the term. Well, whether we allow Joe Biden to kill the recovery -- you know, he wants to shut down -- this guy says, let's shut it down.  A lot of debt is caused by shutdown, depression, death, drugs, alcoholism, horrendous family fights, horrendous family fights, and he wants to destroy those suburbs by abolishing single-family zoning. All of these things are just a horrible thing what he wants to do and I think he's going to do it because he's not smart enough to understand that the other side has big problems. You know, we did something great. We had the greatest economy in history and we had to close it down because we would have lost millions of lives. And now, we're opening it up and we're doing it at a level like nobody's ever seen before and it's a great thing. And we're going to be back in business very soon, except for some Democrats though. And they'll all open up, they're going to all open up right after November 3rd. They'll announce, we'd like to tell you that we're all opening up November 4th. Did you see the one group that said we're opening up, yeah, right after the election? I think we'll open up. Oh, that's great. These are terrible people because they're more interested in politics than they are in the lives of people. They want to confiscate your guns and indoctrinate your children in this poisonous anti-American rhetoric and lies.  To combat the toxic left, and you see this, that toxic left-wing propaganda in our schools. We are launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called the 1776 Commission. We will teach our children the truth about America that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth. That's what I want them to learn. We are joined tonight by some real warriors, friends of mine. They fight with -- they just win. They know how to win. I'm telling you, you have some great ones and they really are, they're great people. The impeachment hoax, they fought it so great. These are real warriors, I call them warriors. Representatives, Tom Emmer, Jim Hagedorn, and Pete Stauber, great hockey player. And I'll tell you, we have some incredible Congressional candidates, so we're going to work because we got to get Nancy Pelosi the hell out of there and we're very  We have some candidates, Tyler Kistner. Where's Tyler? Thank you, Tyler. Great job. I hear great things, Tyler. A man with the greatest name in politics, Lacy Johnson, great guy, great guy, and somebody is going to help us a lot along with Tyler and Lacy, Michelle Fischbach. Thank you, Michelle. Thank you. We're going to be working with you and they all have my total endorsement you know that, OK? The next U.S. Senator from Minnesota is a man who was born for this position, unlike your current Senator who nobody knows who she is, who is she? I said who is she? Is she in the Senate? Jason Lewis, Jason. Thank you, Jason. Great job you're doing. I think we got to get Jason in, we've got to get them all in. RNC Co-Chairman, Tommy Hicks, Tommy Hicks. Thank you, Tommy and Mike Lindell. He makes more pillows, this guy. He makes more pillows. Thank you, Mike. He goes to a lot of my rallies, he likes these rallies and we like him. Here as well tonight is 96-year old World War II veteran, Dr. John . Whoa, look at you, whoa. You look great, John. Wow, you look good, handsome. Thank you, John. Thank you very much. It's an honor, John. After years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. In 2017, I signed a very historic executive order, making it difficult and really just looking at what government policy has to do in order to buy American and hire Americans. Did you ever see Biden? He's got a sign buy American. I said he got it from me, I've been doing this for a long time. Copies my campaign, copies our plans, he copies a lot, like you haven't heard that before. We invested $2.5 trillion in the military. We've put $2.5 trillion and we have the best weapons all made in the USA. We have the greatest weaponry we've ever had, no country, no country has ever come close to the kind of firepower we have. Hopefully, hope to God, we never have to use it. We have firepower and weapons and the Republicans did it because a Democrat's so -- we have to have that, otherwise, we're going to be at the mercy of other countries. We have the greatest firepower, the greatest weapons in the history of the world, hope to God that we never have to use them. And we launched a new branch of the U.S. Armed Forces, the first since the Air Force in 75 years. It's called the Space Force. That's a big deal. We killed the founder and leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi, gone. We took out the world's No. 1 terrorist and the murderer of so many American troops and plenty of other troops, Qasem Soleimani. He's no longer with us. I withdrew from the last administration's total disaster, the Iran nuclear deal, OK? Obama gave them $150 billion, that was bad, but he gave them $1.8 billion in cash. How the hell do you do that? What is $1.8 billion in cash look like? They must have looked at that, they said, man, planeloads of cash. I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel, and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and instead of endless wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East, and I was nominated for three Nobel Prizes and not once -- I didn't get one story, I didn't get one story. I have to tell you because they refused to write it. When Obama got his Nobel Prize, they didn't -- I mean it was the biggest story I've ever seen, right? And he didn't even know why he got it, he got it like immediately upon taking office, what a difference. But I told my first lady, I told our first lady, darling, you're going to be so proud of me tonight. We're going to watch television and you're not going to believe how big this -- what happened? What happened? Darling, I won the -- I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for Israel, right? Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, and then again, again, I was nominated again for Serbia and Kosovo. They're all different then I was nominated a third time, but I said first time. Second time I was a little bit --  Yeah, I know, I love you too, but I said to our first lady, watch this tonight, darling, it's going to be and I turned to Lester Holt, No. 2 show. I turned to Lester Holt and they covered one story about rain, another was about the environment, another was about something else, another was a bad hit on me, another was something else, and now, we're through with about half of it. They went to the longest commercial I've ever seen, not supposed to. You know, when you report the fake news, you're not supposed to get free airtime from the U.S. government, right? Does anybody know what that means? And then they went on to the second half, again and again, and again, she looked at me, darling, I don't think they're going to cover this. I said it's impossible. It's a nomination for the Nobel Peace award, it's impossible, Guess what? It ended, we got nothing. Then, three days later, we got nothing. And on the third time, the third time, I said let's not even watch, we're not go"
"Oh, thank you. Well, we won Pennsylvania last time and we're going to win it by a lot more this time, I think so. Because you know four years ago we had a lot of enthusiasm, but we have more now, even the fake news will admit that, they will. There's more than we've ever had. Hello, Pennsylvania, thank you very much for being here in the rain. As we stand together in the rain, it's supposed to bring luck. We'll take it, my man. I just came from the Rose Garden of the White House. Thank you very much and I love you too, thank you, or I wouldn't have done this, but we're doing well. Our country's going to be stronger than ever before, very soon. You watch what's happening. It's all happening beautifully. It's happening. We had to close it down. We saved millions of lives, we opened it up and we're doing record kind of numbers and we're going to have the best year. And we're going to have a great third quarter. So thank you very much. I've just come from the Rose Garden of the White House where I proudly nominated Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court. Judge Barrett is a brilliant legal mind, an extraordinary scholar, you know that. No.1 in her class, you know the professor, one of the most respected people, he said, the greatest student he's ever had. That's pretty good. That's a little better than Biden, wouldn't you say? She should be running for President than  . No, it's a little bit better, academically slightly better. And most important of all, she will defend your God-given rights and freedom, she will. Judge Barrett would become the third Supreme Court justice along with over 300, think of this, this is our third nomination. We have Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, and now we have Amy along with over 300 federal judges by the end of this term and we confirm to uphold our Laws and Constitution as written, and that's a record. Joe Biden has refused to provide his list because the names will be hand-picked by socialists like representatives, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, AOC. AOC plus three and Ilhan Omar.  That's a great one. She's a great one, always complaining, she's always complaining. Came here, things worked out for her. How did she come here? Does anybody know how she came here? AOC plus three. That's a beauty, that's a group of real -- They love our country so much, right? If given power the far left will pack the Supreme Court with radicals who will terminate the Second Amendment. That's what they wanted to do, strike the words ""under God"" from your Pledge of Allegiance. Tear down crosses from public spaces and force taxpayers to fund extreme late-term abortion, that's what they're looking to do.  These left-wing justices will cripple police departments, protect sanctuary cities, and declare the death penalty unconstitutional for even the most depraved mass murderers it's unconstitutional. We will save your Second Amendment and together we will save our country and that's what we're doing. That's a lot of people. So we have tens of thousands of people. If Sleepy Joe came here, if he had -- I really mean this, you know the little circles he fills and he can't get him full, you have like five of them. Those circles, those big beautiful -- I love it does a nice job, they're very round, but he's got like five of them and then he stands very far back and walks in, I mean I don't get the whole deal there, I don't get it. So we have tens of thousands. Somebody said 17, 18,000. Last night we had 35,000 people you saw that, in Virginia. You know, we're making a play for Virginia because we have a governor in Virginia, you know that. He wants to totally -- and all he does is talk about terminating the Second Amendment, that's all he talks about. That's all he talks about. In 38 days, we will win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. We will win four more years in the White House. Right? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Great honor. It's a great honor. We've achieved a lot together. Together, it's what happened. Well, you see the numbers on November 3rd, get out and vote, go early, vote. Do whatever you have to do, make sure they don't cheat you too badly with those ballots. Oh, did you see today? There was a big mishap with the ballots, another one. This is every day they have that mic, every day, everyday, big mishap with the ballots. So one of them New Yorkers saying well, we're going to change the system a little bit. It's a little late for doing that, isn't it? New York wants to change their system. They're going to work on something. Governor Cuomo, he's going to work on something now. Well, that ballots are flowing, you know it's a little late, and then in a certain location you know the location, they mail the thousand ballots out. Unfortunately, they doubled it up and everybody in this Democrat area got two ballots instead of one. And then two days ago they found eight ballots in a wastepaper basket. Unfortunately, they all had the name Trump written on them. We were going to vote for Trump. There were military ballots, a military.  And then they have a stream and a very good state and they found a lot of ballots dumped in this strip. Look, look, you know, this is not right, what they're doing is not right, and it's all run by -- these ballots, the ones we're talking about, whether it's Pennsylvania, because we're going to win in Pennsylvania, you've got to watch. But you have a governor who's in charge of ballots, North Carolina, Michigan, Nevada, all of these places. They're all run by Democrats. They're the ones that count the ballots. And this note, does anybody have even a doubt? It's just like common sense, it's common sense. So we're going to be very careful, we're going to watch. And you know, we're waiting for rulings from a great federal judge in your state, federal judge about the constitutionality of the whole thing. They're going to try and steal the election, look at this crowd. The only way they can win Pennsylvania, frankly, is to cheat on the ballots. That's the way I look at it. Boy, I love that. No, I just had a big thing today. They said there was a mistake made on a lot of the ballots. They're going to try and redo the system. Take a look at Iowa during the primary, remember the first primary, they couldn't do anything. It was all a mess. It was all a mess.  Good job. Good job. Look at this guy. Good job. Hey, good job. That guy, he's going home to his parents, now he's going to be in big trouble. But wait a minute, wait, wait. He just opened his mouth and we had that gentleman in the beautiful blue -- Will you stand up. Stand up. Are you in law -- law enforcement or some -- because you were on him? This guy hadn't gotten the first word out, that's the kind of guy I want working for me right there. Man. Great. Now it was just instinct, it's called natural instinct. Some people have it and some people don't. Unfortunately, most people don't, that's the problem. Under my administration, we proudly achieved energy independence. We are now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas in the world. Sleepy Joe Biden has vowed to ban fracking. That's not good for Pennsylvania.  You notice now he's trying to pull back, you know, he went to a place called Texas, no oil, no God, and no guns in Texas, that doesn't work. But you know what, doesn't work here either, you're a big fracker. It's a big business here, 900,000 jobs. But he wants to eradicate all of the things that you're doing, all of the things that are bringing in so much money for your state. It's a disgrace. Now he's trying to say, ""Well, I didn't really mean that."" That was like Hillary, remember? She made a horrible statement, it's about clean coal and then she went Crooked Hillary and then she went three weeks later -- I agree. You know, I used to say now, now, now, we won, we won. Now, don't do it, but there's a luck, but I'll try and stop it. Now, she's crazy. Phyllis' stone-cold afraid of her now. But how about, remember the e-mails? Oh, you think we forgot, we didn't forget the e-mails. Remember the e-mails when Congress said we want 33,000 e-mails and they deleted e-mails? They deleted everything, the text messages, everything, they deleted. If Mike Kelly did that, he'd be out of a job so fast. So he'd be gone, right? He'd be gone. We would, none of us, we wouldn't last long. I mean, the corruption -- Hey, did you see though over the last 48 hours, the FBI tapes, the FBI text messages, Trump was right. The one guy says Trump was right, he was right, you shouldn't be doing this. Trump was right. He was like the honest one, but they brought him along. We need insurance, we have to get insurance for this. This is wrong what we're doing. Trump was right. It turned out that it was a whole big disinformation deal. And you know who the guilty party is? The Democrats and Hillary, they were the ones that dealt with Russia. It wasn't us, which we've been saying for a long time. Now, these text messages just came out. Did you see that? They just came out, so we went through two and a half years of a lot of work and they ruined a lot of people. look at General Flynn. Look at what happened. Those messages about General Flynn last night just came out. They know -- They knew he was innocent and they said, ""We want Flynn in order to get Trump."" We want Flynn, they were after Trump, it came out loud and clear. They were after Trump. I'll tell you what. We got to get back to Congress and go after these people. These people are sick. They're sick. It was a whole big con-job with Shifty Schiff and the whole group. Shifty Schiff, he gets up and says a totally different thing than what I said, totally different. And they say, ""Sir, you can't go after him because he's shielded because he made the speech he totally lied. He made it in Congress and he can say anything."" See, it should be the opposite. When you're in Congress, you should be more honest. What a sleazebag he is, right? He always was. What a sleazebag he is, what a jerk, what a jerk. You've got to deal with, people like that. I tell you. I tell you How do you come together with people like that? They're totally dishonest because I want the country to come together. You know, we were coming together until we got hit with the plague from China. We were coming together. There was a -- I was getting calls from stone-cold, radical-left hardline Democrats. Let's stop talking. I'm telling you because we had the best unemployment numbers we ever had, the best economy, best stock market. Although the stock market right now is just about there, right? Success will bring us together. Then we got hit with the plague from China and now we have to do it all over again. It's Make America Great Again again, it's all we'll ever be. But we saved millions of lives by doing what we did. When I asked about fracking, Sleepy Joe Biden said that he would make sure it's eliminated, this was just a little while ago.  Then he gets the nomination, he goes, ""Well, I didn't think fracking's that bad."" it's amazing, isn't it. That's what you call a really dishonest dumb politician. A dumb guy who's Always known as a dumb guy. But we look forward to seeing him in the debate. He's got a lot more experience. He's got 47 years, I've got three and a half years, so we'll see. So He's got 47 years of experience. You know, I always sort of smile when he's like critical. We should have done this. We should have done that. We should have all these things, right. I said, ""Why did you do him?"" He's been there for -- And it's not like he left 20 years ago, 47 years and he left three and a half years ago, right? So why the hell did you do him? No, he went -- there's all these great ideas. That's a real beauty. Days ago, Biden reiterated his pledge to require a net-zero carbon emissions, which he doesn't have any idea what that means shutting down all fracking and sending new jobs overseas like they've been doing. I'm bringing your jobs back. They're all coming back. And I'll keep your jobs in Pennsylvania where they belong, that's where they belong, what they've done to you and other states. Joe Biden's agenda would also be a nightmare for Pennsylvania seniors. Do we have any seniors here? Don't raise your hand. Do we have any senior? Not too -- Look how few people raised their hands. I could see some seniors. We're proud of it, right? For years. Biden tried to cut Social Security and Medicare. You know that. He wants to go, you know, it's going to happen, they're going to go with socialized medicine if they ever got in. Remember Obama what he said, and by the way Obama knew all about the scam. He knew all about this coup. He knew all about spying on my campaign. He knew everything. Somebody said, ""Well, we can't go."" You know they have a cold, they have him cold. Remember, I said they were spying on my campaign a long time ago. The Internet blew up. How dare he say that, how dare he. It turned out to be true. And then it was the coup because I got in. Now they said all right, he got in, we couldn't stop him. Now we're going to try taking it away. Can you believe it? This is the USA. No, seriously, can you believe it? And we caught them. All these text messages and from what I hear, they have some real beauties coming out over the next couple of days, so stay tuned. But somebody said, oh, you can't do that, he was President. Well, I'm President too and they would not stop. I promise. These people are sick, they're bad people. Remember what Biden said when I argued that we should freeze federal spending, I meant Social Security. He meant this. He said when I argued that he wanted to freeze all spent -- all this federal spending he wanted -- he's not going to take care of your Medicare. He's not going to take care of your Social Security. And if he gets in, he's going to have nothing to say because the radical left will control it and he's going to do socialized medicine as sure as you're sitting or standing there. I don't know. I can't even tell the difference. You're sitting. Isn't it nice we got seats for people, who would -- who would do that? Where are all the police back there? What -- are they the greatest?  They're great people. We had so many endorsements, I don't even talk about them anymore. We have so many police endorsements. New York City's finest, never did it before, they endorsed -- they endorsed me, they endorsed us for President. They could solve that problem in New York. All they'd have to do is let them do their job and don't take $1 billion away and fire some of the best people on the force, which is what they did. We got Chicago, thinking that Chicago police endorsed me. How about that? It's not easy to do. You're dealing with radical-left people. We got endorsed by all the Sheriffs in Florida, all law enforcement in Florida. We got to do this by Texas, Oklahoma, we got endorsed by -- does anybody know of any police area or group that has not endorsed us? We're looking for them. We're looking for them. Now Biden is pledging to give federal healthcare to illegal aliens which is decimating Medicare.  Just so you understand, we all have heart. We want to help people, but the problem is, when you say that people that never even thought about coming to the United States say, let's go. Where are we going? We get free education, we get free Medicare, free healthcare, and then I jokingly said one time, everybody gets a beautiful brand new Rolls Royce and CNN said he lied. He said that all illegal immigrants get a $750,000 car. They said he lied. I didn't -- I was only kidding. They said -- they said I lied over the Rolls Royce. They all said, oh, do you remember when I said Russia, if you're listening, find her e-mails or whatever the hell I said. Find her e-mails and then we all laughed together, 25,000 people in the stadium, on television. Look at all the cameras on television, look at those people, look at all those red lights going on. They're standing in the rain just like I am and they don't like it, but do you remember? But the problem is, they cut it off exactly before we all started to laugh together, right? And for two years, they've been saying he dealt with Russia. He asked Russia to please get her e-mails or whatever the hell we were asking. Russia, if you're listening, please get -- the whole place cracks up along with me. In fact, they cut off my last word. You know they got to cut it short because they don't want to see any sign. This is how dishonest these -- they are really -- I'll tell you, they are so bad for the country.  But I'll take it back for right now because right now, it's live all over the place. We'll let it go. You know what, let's say it at the end instead. But so often I'll say, you know, this CNN they're totally corrupt, they're fake, and you see the light go off -- the red light. And I said I got to stop saying that. Do you think it's wet enough out here? They all said, sir, would you need a hat? I said what the hell? How is this gonna match this beautiful cap that I've just -- I got a red one, I don't know red and whatever the hell color this is. Red is not going to go well with this color. No, it's fine. I like seeing the rain with my friends from Pennsylvania. I don't care. We're in the rain together, right? We're in the rain together.  Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're in the rain together, that's all right, we'll stay out here all night if we have to, right? But I'll tell you, so many interesting things are going on. When I look at their plans, did you see their plans, the manifesto? That's the Bernie Sanders and AOC manifesto. So normally, when you negotiate with Communists because I don't think it's socially -- haven't they gone over that. I don't think it's -- This is no longer socialism. We're dealing with worst than social -- this is communism. But when you deal with socialist comm -- you know you're supposed to bring them a little bit to the right, right? You know, you're a Democrat, you bring -- They brought -- they started with a plan and they went further left. This plan is the most horrible, we call it the manifesto. Bernie Sanders, Crazy Bernie. But you know the one thing they agree with us? On trade, because we are being ripped off by so many countries. I've stopped a lot of it. I mean, I had to devote a lot of time to a fake impeachment. Now you see how fake the impeachment was, what about Biden's, son getting three and a half million dollars, right? From the wife of the mayor of Moscow. And then they say, ""Donald Trump is dealing with Russia."" Donald Trump. I never even made a call. Donald Trump is dealing. This guy got three and a half million dollars from the wife of the mayor of Moscow. What the hell was that for? Probably his great experience in energy, but he didn't have that. And then it revealed yesterday that he got a lot more money from China than we thought and he got a lot more money, right? It's just all stuff. It's like perfect, it's like unbelievable, but he got a lot more money from China and the 100 -- 83 or 63,000 a month that he was getting, now it looks like it was a 183,000 a month and he got an upfront payment of $3 million from Ukraine. And this is because of his great knowledge of energy. But he had none. They said, ""Do you know anything about energy?"", ""No, I don't happen to know anything."" Oh. And then the father called for the prosecutor to get him out or you're not getting your billion dollars from the United States, whoa, they got him out and here's your billion. That's not a quid pro quo, right? But a perfect phone call is a quid pro quo where nothing was wrong. It's a disgrace. Well, hopefully we're getting to the bottom of all that stuff because we got plenty. Biden's plan for mass amnesty would bankrupt your Social Security system. And you remember me when I got elected, they all said, oh he's going gonna hurt. They love to say that, it's going to hurt, because they give disinformation. They say a lie like the soldiers in the graves and they put it in. Can you imagine? No, No animal that I know would say that, nobody. They make up a lie and then they go with it. Social Security, they said four years ago. Now they say it again, he will, by the way, your Social Security, we never touched it, not even touched it, they said, ""He will destroy your Social Security."" No, they will destroy it because they'll destroy your country and your Social Security will be worthless. That's what's going to happen. In just three and a half years, we've secured America's borders, rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S. military obliterated 100% of the ISIS caliphate, fix our disastrous trade deals, and brought jobs back home to America and back home to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Under 16 years of Presidents Obama and Bush, household income rose only $2,945, these are right out of the book. So 16 years, less than 3,000, in three years with us, it rose 6,483, so much less than half the time. And if you include energy savings -- How do you like paying those $2 for gasoline and even less, how do you like it? And your electric bills way down, we're No.1 in the world, how do you like that? If you include that it's $10,000 that's over three years, three and a half years. We lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, which is a record. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and now we are very, very rapidly -- You see the numbers, happening all over again. We've added a historic 10.6 million jobs in the last four months. There's never been a record like that. We've added more jobs than any time, four months, not even close. And to fight the China virus, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. You know they said, ""How did you do?"" I say we get an A plus, but I get a D in public relations because we were so busy working and you know when you give it to the fake news, they reported incorrectly. So I figured what's the use of even dealing with it. We got -- we did a job including ventilators that nobody had, you know we took over the cupboards were bare when we took. We pioneered lifesaving therapies, reducing the fatality rate, 85% since April, whoever heard of that? And Europe, which is having a big surge right now, you know, they used to use Europe, oh, look how Europe's doing, we're doing well and we don't want them to have a surge. Europe has had almost a 50% greater access mortality rate than the United States. You don't want to hear that, they don't want to tell you that. An early and aggressive action saved millions of lives through Operation Warp Speed. We will develop and distribute a vaccine in record time. We're going to have it very, very soon. They're very upset with the vaccine. They're very upset with the vaccine because it's happening too soon. They don't want it now even though it's saving lives, it's going to save tremendous lives. They don't want to hear it. They don't want to hear about the therapies. They just want to get through the election. I heard one state. Did you hear this?, ""We're going to open our schools on November 6th."" Oh, I told you that, right? Everything's so worried about it, Pennsylvania, your state's going to be open like on November 4th. This was some idiot. And now they're excoriating this person that said it. Their excoriating the person that said it. We're going to open up our schools in November 6th, the latest November 9th. Oh, that's nice. Got to open your schools, you got to open up your state, open it up. The ones that are doing well and the ones that open it up. We will crush the virus. Our opponents will crush America and that's what it's about too. They will. They will deliver a crippling shutdown and a steep -- You will have, if sleepy Joe Biden becomes President, first of all, you're going to have a massive tax increase. You're going to see interest rates go through the ceiling. You will have a depression, the likes of which this country has never seen before. And I'm including 1929. That was a pretty bad one, all right, that's what's going on. And I hope I don't get a chance to be tested because I don't want to be tested. I don't want to have him and say, see I was right, because with us you're going to have incredible prosperity. We're cutting taxes and we're growing fast. I'm delivering a safe vaccine in record time. That's the other thing in -- with the vaccine, because of me and the FAA, they're approving things in a fraction of the time. You wouldn't have had a vaccine if you had to go through that obsolete process, you wouldn't have had a vaccine for two and a half more years. On November 3rd, Pennsylvania will decide whether we end the pandemic, defeat the virus, and return to record prosperity or whether we allow Sleepy Joe Biden to kill the recovery, delay the vaccine, impose a $4 trillion tax hike, destroy your suburbs. Everyone's talking about me in the suburbs. I knocked out the regulation that allows low income housing in the suburb. And then I hear all the people in the suburbs don't like me, you better like me because you're going to have -- your suburbs aren't going to be so great. They say that women in the suburbs, I made the mistake, I said, housewives living in the suburbs. They said, oh, that's politically incorrect. OK, I got killed for that. I use the word housewife, is that an unacceptable term? I don't know. They're all saying no. I said the housewives in the suburbs and they said, ""Oh, what a horrible thing to say."" but women, let's be politically correct. Women and men in the suburbs changing the zoning so they can build. That's what it is that changing your zoning. It was a rule, a regulation that was a disaster and I called my people, I said I want to terminate it. They said, ""Sir, we can't do that. Let's just amend it. We'll make it much more --"" No, no, you don't understand. I don't want to amend it. I want to terminate it, yes, sir. And we terminate it. But if you believe the fake suburb polls, I don't think people in the suburbs know that I did that. I don't think they know that I did it. You know, they say we want Sleepy Joe Biden. Why? Why do you want him? First of all, you're not getting him, you're getting this maniac who is falling like a rock in the polls. He picked somebody that he should have never picked. She was so bad to him. She said such bad things about him. I'm not going to pick somebody that says bad and then on top of it, right, 15, 14, 13, 10, 8, 7, then she went up back to 8, she had a big week and then she went back down. And she got out at one or two. She quit before Iowa, right? And then they had the Iowa primaries and because they use these crazy ballots, nobody ever found out who won. And now they want to use it at a scale thats a thousand times bigger for a car, 80 million ballots, 80 million ballots. They couldn't count a small number, but now the count. And then they had the race in New York, Carolyn Maloney, a terrible, terrible congresswoman. And they took it away from the guy that was beating her or would have beat her, but they're missing massive. You know, it sound like they're missing 1% which would be unacceptable. You know 1%, you can win by 1%, right? Can win by one tenth of 1%, but they're losing like, there was one area, I think 41% of the ballots were missing, 41. These people are crazy. This is going to be a disaster. And all I'm asking is people go out to vote, go out to vote and stop with this nonsense because we're going to be counting ballots for the next two years. And I don't want to end up in the Supreme Court and I don't want to go back to Congress either, but even though we have an advantage, if we go back to Congress as everyone understand that?  I think it's 26 to 22 or something because it's counted one vote per state, so we actually have an advantage, oh they're going to be thrilled to hear that. I'm sure they're trying to figure out how can we break that one. Biden wants to confiscate your guns and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in schools, right, to combat the toxic left wing propaganda in our schools. I announced last week that we are launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called the 1776 Commission. Right?  We'll teach our children the truth about America that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and we are only getting better. Are we getting better, it's a healing process. This is the most important election we've ever had. I'm telling you. You know, I used to say like even a couple of months ago, well, you know 20 -- How do you -- how do you like 2016, that was pretty exciting, right? Was that exciting? Was that the coolest night? Trump is winning Florida, he's winning North Carolina. He's winning Pennsylvania. He's winning Michigan. He's winning Wisconsin. He's winning everything what the hell is going on? And people crying, they're crying. The anchors, the non-biased anchors are crying. Oh, I watched an interview with a person on MSDNC. I don't watch it much, but I watched because Sleepy Joe is on, and she's like -- Did you see that interview yesterday? It was like -- and she's very tough, very, very tough, very nasty, and she's feeding him. Can't answer, so what she's doing is no, no, no, ""Isn't it, Joe?"", ""Yes."", ""Isn't it true that Trump is a horrible human being."", ""Well, uh, uh, yes, I -- Yeah, as we discussed before, it's true."" This was the worst, most obvious -- and this was a killer. This -- this person is very tough. It is so rigged. The whole thing is rigged. We got to beat the system and we're beating the system. Sometimes I'll look -- I'll look and I'll have somebody in the office that's corrupt, you know, corrupt, the media person, and I'll be sitting there complaining how unfair it is and then I'll be sitting in the Oval Office. But I'll be saying how unfair it is. Then I'll look around the Oval Office. I say, ""Wait a minute, it's unfair, but oh, we're in the Oval Office and you're not."" Right? And I say -- and I stop complaining, Mike. I say, oh, this is the Oval Office. Joe Biden has surrendered his party to the flag burners, rioters, the entire police radicals, the anarchists.  His running mate urged supporters to donate to a fund that bailed out riders out of jail including an attempted cop killer, let's get them out of jail.  13 members of Biden staff donated to the same fund. They donated a lot of money too. We want to get these people out. Oh, we want to be called in. And you know you saw what we did in Minneapolis? We win, they called us like a week and a half too late. We went in. How long did that take? About a half hour it was over. We brought in the National Guard. We told Seattle we're coming in and they left that night. We're all set to go and we wanted to -- I was disappointed actually. I was disappointed that we were going to make a big statement but we couldn't because they said, OK, they left. Shouldn't have told them. Next time, don't tell them. And you know, and if you look at Portland, what a mess, right? That's an anarchist. It's sort of like a different -- Chicago's a mess. New York, what they've let happen to New York and we have these great police in Chicago, New York, they can do the job, just let them do the job. It's terrible. But when you look at Portland. Portland has anarchists and you had the guy two weeks ago. Remember he shot and killed a young man in the middle of the street, just shot him like uh oh, I don't even say like what, because his parents are so devastated. A young man and they shot him and killed him. This one guy. This one animal. And two and a half -- That's right over his hat, not our hat, it was another hat. It was a Christian hat. He was a Christian and he was a Christian. He was a Christian and they shot him, killed him instantly and this guy that shot him everybody knew who he was, right? And I said after two days, ""Where is he? Did you arrest him?"" ""No, we didn't."" After two and a half days, ""Did you arrest him?"" And then I put out on social media, ""Why didn't you arrest him?"" And you know what? The U.S. marshall saw it and they went in and he pulled a gun on him and 15 minutes it was all over. None of our guys were hurt and he was good. This guy was a stone-cold killer and yet they say he was a protester, he's not a protester, an anarchist and a killer. And the U.S. Marshals, thank you. That was an incredible job they did, great. But the US marshals, we could solve that problem so"
"Thank you very much. Hello, Newport News. I know it well, I know it well. I know it well. You know, my father and I had a couple of little jobs here and they were great. When the ships came in, they were packed. When the ships went out, they were stone-cold empty. I said this is a different kind of place, but we loved it and it's a great place. And I'm thrilled to be back in the Commonwealth of Virginia with the thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. And they also want to thank the great people of North Carolina, who's here from North Carolina? Not bad, it's a little area there. Thirty-nine days from now, we're going to win Virginia, we're going to win North Carolina, we're going to win four more years in the White House, and keep doing what we've been doing because it's never been anything quite like it.  We're going to win four more years in the White House, and keep doing what we've been doing because it's never been anything quite like it. This is the most important election in the history of our country. One of the biggest issues for the people of Virginia is your Second Amendment.  And if sleepy Joe Biden wins, your Second Amendment will be eliminated and your firearms will be confiscated,  whether you like it or not. When asked if a Biden administration was coming after your guns, Biden replied, yes, he totally had to say, yes.  He promised to put the gun grabber, Beto O'Rourke, you know Beto, Beto.  Remember Beto? He was on the cover of a third-rate magazine and he said I was born to run for President, that was the end of his run. That's when it ended, any time they say they were born to do it. They got problems. That didn't work out. It was a steep drop, but he put Beto in charge of his assault and your guns and you know what happened with Beto, Beto went crazy. He wants to take your guns away. Biden vows to impose punishing taxes on gun owners, outlaw many of the most popular firearms in America, create a national gun registry, and wage the most aggressive war on gun rights in U.S. history.  Biden will disarm law-abiding Americans, and at the same time, they'll have riots down your street and that's just fine. That's OK. That's OK according to  so I was told not to go for Virginia. We did really well last time and I never came and never did anything, and we did really well. I said why didn't I go for Virginia? But it's traditionally not a Republican state over the last number of decades, and I said why not? You have a crazy Governor  and every time I see it, every two weeks, he's trying to take your guns away, right? And he'll attack constantly right to life, and you know he's so far left, he doesn't even talk about late-term. He talks about after the baby was born,  which is the first time I ever heard of that. You hear late-term, but he said that after the baby is born, we'll start talking to the mother. In other words, he's talking about execution of the baby, execution.  You have a Governor that thinks he's Michael Jackson, remember, his wife saved him. Remember he wanted to prove that he was just dressed up like Michael Jackson and that he sometimes thought when he was young, that he resembled Michael Jackson. I don't think so. And do you remember he wanted to moonwalk across the stage? And his wife said, no, no, don't do it, darling, don't please, darling. Nobody moonwalks like Michael. That would have been good. I wish I could have seen that. That would not have been pretty. So based on your Governor and based on the fact that he's always -- you never -- every like month, you're fighting for guns. If I'm not here, your Second Amendment is gone and I'm talking about all over the country, forget about just Virginia. So I said let's give Virginia a shot. We're nearby, right? I even said we'll bring in the heavy artillery, we'll bring in our great Vice President, Mike Pence. Did he do a good job?  I'll tell you what, Kamala, Kamala  is no Mike Pence. She's no Mike Pence. No, he's great, he's done a fantastic job, and he's with you all the way. So I said let's give it a shot and you know there's a big difference. I'll tell what, there's never been a bigger difference between candidates or parties. Never been -- no party that supports as an example, what he would do to a child after it was born, is fit to be even involved in any way in this nation, let alone running this nation. As you know, sleepy Joe Biden endorsed your Governor, so that means he endorsed the policy of your Governor. That means -- that means he endorsed --  he endorsed breaking up your Second Amendment. So it will either be totally broken up or it will be, you know, wiped out. Essentially, it won't be that much different. So here we are in Virginia like -- like I had nothing to do today. I woke up at 6:00 in the morning, I read some papers, oh, I read the fake news.  And then, I was in Florida early in the morning and then I went to Florida and we did a big roundtable with the Hispanics. They were great and then we flew to Atlanta from Florida, Palm Beach. And then, we flew -- we started off in all different places. We were all -- and then we flew, we went to Miami, we started off -- but I'll tell you what, Florida's great. We're going to win Florida. We're way up in Florida, way up, way up. Even a poll that gave me -- I mean, I've never had a good number. ABC, Washington Post poll, it's a terrible poll, always been bad. I think it got everything wrong four years ago. They said I'm four up or more, but I'm four up in the state of Florida. So anyway, so we went to Miami, went to a beautiful place actually in Miami. You know where that is, right? And we had -- we had -- I wouldn't say because then they'll say I'm advertising if I do, that's the fake news. I won't say, I won't say the name of the place, but it is beautiful. And then what happened is, we went to Atlanta and we -- so we left the great Hispanics. We call them the Latinos for Trump, Latino, where we are polling at numbers that, I guess, no Republican has ever polled before. Perhaps Abraham Lincoln, but in those days, he wasn't big into the Hispanic movement I think. Abraham had other things to think about, don't we think? But, uh, I will say this, nobody has done more for many communities, but I always say, for the Black community. Nobody has done more for the Black community than Donald Trump since Abraham Lincoln, nobody. So we flew to Atlanta and we had an unbelievable two hours, and this was with the African-American community, the Black community. I would say what do you like better? Tell me what you like better? They say usually the Black community and what is the answer, tell me, African-American? I'm not listening -- I don't want to hear from other people, I want to hear -- African-American, what do you like better, African-American or Black community? It's black, You know, that's what we hear. I'll go with whatever you want. That's your choice. We can choose either one. I'll go with whatever you want. We had really a great -- we had a great two hours, incredible people, Herschel Walker introduced me, serious, serious guy. We had a lot of champion fighters, a lot of great people, it was an amazing time. And then we flew to Washington where we had a roundtable. And then I say, well, that's it for the night, right? You know, this starts at 6:00 in the morning. So I said that's it for the night, is that it? I'll go back home to the White House. No, sir. Well, I wonder what -- you're going to Virginia, sir. Oh, good. Oh, that's good. Thank you very much. This was like -- I asked a question about an hour ago, where am I going now? Put me in coach, do you ever hear the expression? Just wind me up and put me in coach. I said where are we going tonight? I said, uh, let's go back to the White House, let's see our first lady. And they said, no, sir, you have a rally schedule, you have a rally schedule. Where is it? In Virginia. I said, oh, that's good. How many people? They said a hell of a lot of people that's a --   Well, I wouldn't. I'm kidding, I'm kidding, I'm kidding. When you have rallies like this, you don't forget them. You don't forget them.  Thank you, go ahead.  So we're going to put a heavy play in for Virginia. Seriously, we're going to put a heavy play in Virginia and I think we can win the state. Man, that crowd is big, look at that. It goes way back to the hangar. That is a big crowd, that's big. You know, I always tell the cameras. I don't want to bore people with this, but I implore them, turn the cameras around and show them the size of this crowd. It goes back to the building, but they never liked doing it because they don't like -- including Fox, they don't like showing big crowds, they don't. They don't like showing big crowds. We left Ohio, we're way up in Ohio, way up in Ohio. We're way up in Georgia. We were in Georgia today with the Governor and the Senator. Senator Perdue and we were, uh, your  Representative Doug Collins, great guy; Kelly Loeffler, great person, Senator, and Senator Perdue. And I said, how are we doing? They said you're winning by a lot in Georgia. Of course, if you see these people, they'll say he's pretty close in Georgia, too close to call. And then when election night comes, the polls in Georgia are closed, Donald Trump has won the state of Georgia. You know, you only win if you're up by like a lot. If you're up by a lot, they announced it immediately. That was how it happened with Texas last time. They said Texas is too close to call, all for months and months and months. The only ones that didn't believe that were the people in Texas. So when it closed, they said the polls in Texas are closed, Donald Trump has won the state, like in the same breath. No, we're doing great in Texas, we're doing great all over the place, we're doing great all over. I hear we're, I hear we're up in New Hampshire, which is great. Last time, that one got taken away from us with the people that just came in with buses all over the place. They had buses coming up from Massachusetts. You have the RINO Governor, you know the RINO Governor of Massachusetts. That's right, Baker.  He's a RINO, but I guess, he does whatever he can to get elected. The Democrat party is now run by socialists and Marxists, who want to destroy our laws, our values, and want to destroy your way of life. To uphold our Constitution as written tomorrow, I will be announcing my nominee to the United States Supreme Court.  Fill that seat. Oh, we're going to fill it, don't worry about it. And the Republicans have been very unified, you see that, very unified. Even a couple of people that normally don't vote for -- with us, usually don't vote with the Republicans, but they are and we have tremendous unity in the party. Mitch is doing a good job. Kevin is doing a good job. We're going to take over the House. We're going to take back the House. People are tired of crazy Nancy, they're tired. We want to get some stimulus out, she doesn't want to give it. She just as does -- only big for political reasons, not your fault. Do you know whose fault it is? China's fault, that's whose fault it is, that's whose fault it is. But you know, it's an amazing thing because the Democrats are saying, well, it's the end of a term and because it -- you know, we have a lot of time left. Think -- think of this. If it were them, don't forget, we don't have to do it by the election, but we should be ease -- really able. That would be a great victory, going into the election with that biggest of all victories. You know they say, the biggest thing you can do is the appointment of judges, but especially, the appointment of Supreme Court justices. That's the single biggest thing a President can do because it sets the tone of the country for 40 years, 50 years, I mean a long time. So we're going to be announcing somebody great. I just think that you know there -- I just watched. The great thing about Air Force One, there are more televisions on that plane than any plane. They got them in every room and you open up for closet, you want to share it. Let me  it's a television. And I'm watching the Democrats saying how terrible it is that we're pointing -- we have the right. We won the election, right? Then we have the right, we won the election. And we have a lot of time and if they were in our position, they would do the same thing. Maybe they would just do it more rapidly, OK, more rapidly. No, so, tomorrow, I think, is going to be a big day, five o'clock tomorrow at the White House, we're going to be naming the nominee. Hopefully, we'll be on that court for 50 years, five-o, 50, 50, be on there for 50 years. The only thing I can tell you for sure is, it will be a woman. Is that OK?  Does anybody have any objections to that?  Please, please raise your hand, a lot of cowards out there. Look at you men. I don't see how -- there's not one man here that has the guts to raise your hand, not one. If given the power, the radical left will pack the Supreme Court with extremists who will strike the words under God from the Pledge of Allegiance as they did twice.  I heard their Pledge of Allegiance, they had it in their caucus. I'm watching I said, oh, they made a mistake. I said to the first lady, darling, they made a mistake. They left the words under God out. And then I heard it a second time and they made the same mistake. I said this is strange. This is like the guys on the Mueller team that clean their phones right?  Thirty-one phones and they said, oh, we made a mistake and they all made the exact same mistake. The odds of that are a billion to one, right? They all made, oh, they got caught. Did you see what's going on? Oh, they got caught, gee, I feel sorry. That's a -- that's a shame.  Yeah, they should be. I'll tell you, they should be. They're crooked people, they're crooked people. So they cleaned up their phones. Hillary took their phones and smashed them. She took 33,000 e-mails and deleted them after Congress requested them, and I think they're looking at that, too. I think so, I think so. Can you imagine? I have a friend, he's very smart, rich guy, made a lot of money, but he's a very streetwise guy. He said, you know, you've been under investigation by these thieves and they're smart. They just weren't smart when they all used the same exact method to clean their phone. That wasn't smart you know. At least put it in a little bit different -- 31 different phones. Like what is it, 21 people, 31 phones? But that's OK, that's OK. That's only illegal, that's only illegal. But this friend of mine said, you know, they've gone through everything. They've gone through your taxes, they've gone through your financials, they've gone through everything. You have to be the most honest guy in the world and they come up, no collusion. Oh, they wanted -- if they found -- if they found anything. No, it's a bad group of people headed by Robert Mueller.  A bad group of people who wanted the job at the FBI, but he lied to Congress. He said he didn't say that, but he did. I mean he did. We have all the proof, so he is in the same group you know. But they're actually in worse shape because at least with Mueller, you can say he probably didn't know what the hell he was doing, sort of like Joe Biden. I figure about -- about the same. Does that make sense? Is anybody under -- how would you like to -- you're getting a divorce or something and you say I got to be represented by Bob Mueller. Do you think so? You saw his performance in Congress, right? I want to be represented by Bob Mueller. No, it's the same thing. How can we have Joe Biden representing this country?  And you know, he's -- he's on the lid. You know the lid, right? The lid is what they say, we're going to put a lid on it. So I guess it means probably what it's supposed -- I have no idea, lid. It's a lid, but it's an expression. And every day early in the morning they say, Joe -- Joe, I mean Joe Biden, sleepy Joe, he's put a lid on it. Sir, Biden has put a lid on it. What does that mean? That means he's not working today. This guy takes more days off. You have to have a President that's going to work his ass off for this country. You need energy, you need a very energetic President. They said how do you think he's going to do in the debate? I think good. He's been doing it for 47 years. I think he's going to do good, I think. And one thing we know, if he does just OK, just OK, they're going to say, the fake news, they're going to say it was the single greatest debate performance in history. It was unbelievable, far better than Winston Churchill in his prime. Winston Churchill was nothing compared to sleepy Joe. So you know that, if he finishes the debate -- if he finishes, which I think he will and he might even do well, but if he does, well, they're going to say it's the greatest debate -- and they have it already written. They have a couple of scenarios. If he does really poorly, they're going to say he wasn't bad, he wasn't bad. If he does modestly, well, like he did against Bernie, they were sort of even. If he does like that, they'll say it was the greatest performance in history. But with your vote, I will preserve our Constitution and ensure law and order. Joe Biden is weak. He surrendered his party to the flag burners, the rioters, the anti-police, anarchists, the radicals.  All these guys running around these -- these Democrat-run cities and states, look at it, ten out of ten. We could fix up Portland so fast, they have to invite us in. I want to be invited into that one. We would fix that like we did Minneapolis. We would fix that up in -- in less than a half an hour. Remember Minneapolis? They were right, I mean the problem is, they invited us in about two weeks. By the time they invited us, it was a lot of flames behind them. Do you remember the reporter, he was standing there? This is a peaceful protest and behind him, you have like blocks and looked like Berlin during the war, didn't it? I never saw anything -- this is the craziest thing. It's a peaceful performance, but what we did, we said it's a peaceful protest and we don't call these rallies anymore because in Dem states like where you have a Governor who's a Democrat  you're not allowed to go to church, you're not allowed to go to a restaurant, you're not allowed to go to your friend's house, you can't move from your house unless you're related to the Governor, then you can do whatever the hell you want. You can't do anything, you can't do anything, unless, of course, it's a peaceful protest, OK? And so what we do is, we call these peaceful protests, so we're getting big crowds, 25,000, 30,000, 35,000. There's more enthusiasm now than there was four years ago because we've done a good job, right? There's more now. Now, we have more enthusiasm now than we did -- you know it's interesting, don't forget, four years ago, I did a nice job, I was successful, I had a great television show, The Apprentice. It was great, people got to know me a little bit. I said let me run from the time -- the first hour that we came down the escalator, first lady and I down the escalator, her with a white dress, right? Very famous escalator right now. People go to take pictures of the escalator, but we came down the escalator, we were in first place, right? We never went -- I never left center stage, right? And that's based on poll numbers if you're the No. 1 poller and I said, look, I want an odd number. I don't want an even number because it -- what is it? What are you talking about? I said because that means two people are in the center and that's not fair, so I wanted an odd number. We were in center stage, but we've done a good job. What happened is, I came I said I was going to cut your taxes. We gave you the biggest tax decrease in history, right? I said I was going to cut regulations and we're going to have an incredible economy and regulations were probably even more important than the tax cuts, OK, if you want to know the truth. You ask the business people, the great ones, they will tell you if they had a choice, they'll take the regulation cuts and we still have a ways to go with that, but we did that. We rebuilt your military, we added Space Force, I mean what we've done is far more, far more. Right to try, how about right to try? I never talked about that. I never talked about it. We knocked out 100% of the ISIS caliphate, right?  We achieved energy independence and we've done it while protecting our very pristine environment by the way. And earlier this month, oh, you're going to be so happy, Virginia and North Carolina. Come on, North Carolina, you're going to be so happy. You're going to be cheering like crazy because I think you'll like this, but about a month ago, I signed an order prohibiting offshore drilling on the Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina coast, right, right? And because I happen to like this state a lot, I said what about Virginia? What about North Carolina? And somebody said I don't know. I don't know if they'll like it. I said I think they'll like it. So I'm extending the moratorium to North Carolina and Virginia, OK? And if you want to have oil rigs out there, just let me know, we'll take it off. I mean, you know, I can understand that, too. I can understand that, too, but I think you want it. So we're extending it to Virginia, we're extending it to North Carolina, up the coast and we're not going to have any problems like can be had, all right? So I think you'll like that. If you don't like it, you can let me know, I'm going to change it. I can change things very easily. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and now, we're quickly doing it again, so I did all of these things. And in doing all these things, you said the second time, well, now, this is actually a much easier campaign in a way. I mean the only problem is, I've been tarred with this horrible witch-hunt for four years and I didn't do it.  Now think of it, what would my numbers be if I didn't go through almost four years of a Russian witch-hunt that turned out to be just the opposite? They were the ones that were involved with Russia. It was a whole big disinformation campaign. Now, what would my numbers be? And with all that we've done and if you didn't hear night after night on fake news CNN and MSDNC  and the New York Times and The Washington Post. And now it's turning out, not turning out, it's done because if you look at everything that's come out over the last few days, it's -- we caught them, they've been caught. They spied on my campaign and they tried for a coup. Can you believe it in this day and age? And we caught him cold, so what would our numbers be? Our numbers, not my numbers, what would my numbers be if every night, every morning, every day, they were saying Russia, Russia, Russia? It turned out to be a total hoax. In fact, Biden's son -- it was just revealed two days ago, got $3.5 million from the wife of the Mayor of Moscow.  Think of it. So -- but I -- really think about that. What would be our -- we did all these incredible things with the economy, with everything, and then we got hit with this virus from China. They should never have let it happen, we won't forget it, and we closed up, we saved millions of lives. Now we've opened it. We're opening to records, but what would our popularity be if every day for almost four years, you didn't hear any of this bullshit, OK? What would it be? It's true, it's true. What would it be? With all we've done, I think that would be very nice, the Democrats would say, yes, if you'd like we could cancel the election because we have no chance.  But you know what, hopefully, they have no chance anyway. And hopefully, you're going to remember what I just said because we were unjustly treated, unjustly accused by a bunch of treasonous crooks, a bunch of bad, bad people who got caught, and I think, they'll have to pay a very substantial price. When the plague arrived from China, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. We pioneered lifesaving therapies, reducing the fatality rate 85% since April. You know, the question was asked to me, how well did we do on the pandemic? And I said I give us an A to an A-plus. You look at the ventilators, you look at all we've done. We did a great job. We helped the Governors. The Governors are always very thankful, then, sometimes they'll get in front of a camera, they'll remember some of them are Democrats, right? But I said the only thing we did badly on was public relations because we were working so hard we didn't think -- we -- I think, frankly, they're not going to cover it well no matter what, but we did a hell of a job. And they'll compare us to Europe and we did very well. But now that Europe is exploding again, they don't want to talk about it and neither do I because I want Europe -- I want Europe to heal. I want the whole world to heal, but we've done a hell of a job except in public relations, and that's explaining it to people. On that, I give us a D, but we got an A-plus in terms of what we've done. Through Operation Warp Speed, we will develop and distribute the vaccine in record time by the end of the year and it could be sooner than that, but we have the greatest labs, the greatest companies of that kind in the world and they are right there, they are right there. It's going to be incredible, so it's going to be a great vaccine and we have Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, another one just announced today. These are great, great, great companies. On November 3rd Virginia will decide, whether we end the pandemic and return to record prosperity or whether we allow Joe Biden to kill the recovery, delay, the vaccine, impose a $4 trillion tax hike on you; that's what he wants to do, ban American energy; he wants to ban fracking. How about that? He wants to ban fracking, then, he locks into the nomination. You know he shouldn't have gotten it because if Pocahontas left them two days early, Bernie would have won, and we would have had Bernie. I don't know who I would have been better against, maybe, who knows, but we would have had radical Bernie. But we're going to get a lot of Bernie votes like we did last time because his people agree with us on trade, except we're better at it than he is. So we're going to get a lot of the Bernie votes, boy, Bernie takes a hard shot. This is twice it happened and he has such a nice attitude between him -- and how about Bloomberg? Bloomberg gets absolutely decimated in the debate, right?  Mini Mike, mini Mike, mini Mike, he gets decimated. And in order to get back with the Democrat party, I'm going to put $100 million into Florida. If I were him, I'd just -- just take a pass. He doesn't have to give us anything. We don't need his money. Just take a pass you know. So he wants to buy his way into the Democrats and so he's going down to Florida, it's -- but unfortunately, he did something that wasn't so good, right? He said I'm going to pay off all these fines of the prisoners. There's only one problem, it's illegal. Now he's got himself a problem, now he's got himself a bigger problem than he had when Pocahontas beat the hell out of him in the debate. Oh, that wasn't so easy, Mike. Remember, she was gone point after point after point and he thought she was talking about me and so did I actually. And then and then what happened? She said and I'm not talking about President Trump, I'm talking about you and he went, oh, my God. He's not a good guy, he's not a good guy, stupid. To do that, stupid. You have to have some pride. You can't go -- what -- the way they treated him so badly. You can't do that, but they're going to destroy the suburbs. You know I keep hearing about suburban women like you, right, suburban women. Well, I just ended a regulation that would have allowed projects in your -- uh, do you mind having a project next to your house, you're beautiful? You live in a beautiful house, right? Happily married, beautiful kids, everything perfect, the American dream, right? Do you mind having a project built next door? Yeah, she said she minds, do you know who minds? Everybody minds, I just don't think anybody knows that we did this. I really don't. I don't think anybody knows and they're going to change the zoning that allows them to build projects in the suburbs. So the guys came to me and said I want to end that. They came, sir, we're all set, we're going to really bring it back. I said, no, I didn't say bring it back. I said I want it ended. Well, that's not so easy. I said I want it ended. I don't want it, I don't want it, and we terminated it so you can live happily ever after if you vote for Trump. If you don't vote for Trump, you can forget it because they will put it -- do you know who's in charge of it? Cory Booker, Senator Cory Booker, he's another beauty.  He was Elizabeth -- if you -- if you really think -- you had Elizabeth Warren, you had Cory Booker, and you had Kamala. You know, if you pronounce her name wrong she goes crazy. Kamala, like a comma, it's like a comma, and she's like a comma. And by the way, nobody treated sleepy Joe worse than his Vice Presidential pick. I brilliantly said he'll never pick Kamala because she got treated -- he got called a racist, he got called xenophobic, which he didn't know what that meant. He got called all sorts of things, right? And so I said, no, obviously, not going to be -- he picked her. I couldn't believe it, but I think that's good. We like our Mike Pence, we like Mike Pence, and she's rated further left than Bernie Sanders. I thought he was the most left in the -- he's not actually even in the party, he's sort of like an independent. Nobody ever used to say that, but he's like an independent. But she's rated further left than crazy Bernie and this is what you want? I don't think so. Just so you understand, if -- and then she calls it the Harris administration along with -- just like your naming a movie, the producing credits, right? In the Harris administration along with Vice President Biden, no, no, no, he's heading up the ticket, but then he said the same thing. He put her name first, I've never done that. I love Mike, but I've never said, Mike Pence and Donald Trump. I always say Trump because you know what, you've got to know that, you're the President. He doesn't know that he's in first position. He doesn't know it, he doesn't know it. He forgot, he forgot. Hey, look, you're entitled to one mistake every once in a while. It was strange that they did it almost in the same hour though, right? It was like one on top of another. Give free healthcare, they want to give free healthcare to illegal aliens  and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in school. We don't like that.  To combat the toxic left -- and you see what it is, it's toxic, left-wing propaganda in our schools, I announced last week that we are launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called the 1776 Commission. We will teach our children the truth about America that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and we were getting better, better, better all the time. And we're joined tonight by a friend of ours, a warrior, Congressman Rob Wittman. Where's Rob? Thanks, Rob. Good guy. Virginia Republican Party Chair, Rich Anderson, good job. How are we doing? Am I making the right move? I'm not wasting my time here, Rich. I got to ask him, Rich, what do you think? I think so, right? I think so and Congressional candidates Nick Freitas. Good, oh, look at him. We had a call the other day, a very successful call, right? Great call. Thanks, Nick. And a real warrior, real hero, Scott Taylor, Scott. Those are two very important races and I think you're going to win and my source had good polling. We're taking over the house from crazy Nancy, we're going to have it. And I think those two guys, I think they're going to win. Also, somebody that I have"
"[This is a machine transcript written automatically by the AI on our platform, Margaret. She's good, but not perfect. Please double check any quotes against the video. We will replace this with a proofread transcript when complete.] Hello Jacksonville, we love Jacksonville, I'm thrilled to be back in my home state of Florida with thousands of hardworking American Patriots. This is some proud. I just wish the cameras would show the crowd. They don't want to do that. They'd like to do that. You know it's harder for us to win, because we have a fake news back there, but but somehow we just keep on doing it is crazy is crazy. This is some. You know it's interesting. When Biden comes to Florida have like 12 13 people. You know they do this and he has a hard time filling up the circles. Here we probably have 30000 people or so that's a lot of people. Well, I want to thank you forty days from now we're going to win Florida, we're going to win four more years in the White, and this is the most important election in the history of our country. I believe that it is because we're dealing with people that are crazy, we're going to raise your taxes they're going to take away your Second Amendment. You know that your second amendment is not going anywhere with me. I can tell you. The Democrat Party has been completely taken over by socialists, Marxists and far left extremists. They embrace the policies of Communist Cuban socialist Venezuela. They want to end the American dream for Hispanic Americans. We love Hispanic Americans, while you see they released a poll today. That said, Trump is doing really well with. What's going on with the Hispanic, it took you so long to figure out that I love you. How long did it take no more of that stuff? Now that Hispanic Americans are great, and you know they did, they released a poll today and nobody's ever seen anything like it. The Republicans are beating the Democrats with Hispanic Americans speaking we're doing great we're doing great and they never like to show those polls. Whenever you see they don't show too many polls, it's only because we're winning we're winning by a lot. We think we're winning by like a lot, but the only poll that counts is on November 3rd right. That's the only poll that counts so get out there. Don't let him bluff you whatever it is, get out there and vote. The Republican Party is the party of jobs, safety and freedom, and we will ensure that America never becomes a socialist or communist I've added that recently less said socialist country. I said now a socialist or communist cut, because these people are crazy. Kamala you know Kamala is further left than Bernie. I didn't know that she is the furthest left in the U.S. Senate. She was up at 15 percent when she started. You know that right that story. She went down to 40 and then she went to twelve that you went to eleven. She went to 9 and 8 6, 4. 2. 1., And then she left before I with the great state of Iowa. Well, I made it all possible for them at all, and I gave our farmers twenty eight billion dollars. Thank you very much china. We took it out of China because they were targeting iowa and Nebraska a lot of our great states Wisconsin. We gave our farmers a lot of money. Some came down to farmers down in Florida. They don't know that we got a lot of farmers in Florida, but here's the choice facing every Florida vote, Joe Biden, will deliver a crippling shutdown he's actually thinking about. Can you know we did that and we saved millions of lives? That's it we're doing good now and by the way your governor has done a great job. Florida is down. No doubt the china virus, its China, some people call it corona virus. That sounds like a beautiful place in Italy. Right now, it didn't come from. Italy came from China, but this guy stuck in here, shut it down to be scientists and shut it down, shut it down. No we're not shutting anything down, we are doing so. Well, you look at our numbers. What do you see the third quarter? I shouldn't say it because back there, but when do you see how good the third quarter is going to be when it comes out just before the elections, I'm taking a risk? When I say it, you won't believe the numbers you say I tell you, you're going to see numbers nobody's going to believe those numbers we're hearing from 25 to 35 percent GDP. Nobody's ever heard of that. Well, Iran has a 25 percent GDP too, but it's a negative GDP of 25. They just announced negative 25. They don't like me too much be careful, be careful, I'm delivering a safe vaccine and we're doing a record recovery. This recovery is a record they've, never seen anything like it, and next year is going to be, I think, the best economic year in the history of unless a very sleepy guy got in he decided to quadruple everybody's taxes. Then you can forget. A. Sleepy guy, did you see he did it live this morning? Again, live live, you know it. A little is a little is when you put out word you're not going to be campaigning today, so he does a little all the time. I'm working my ass off. I'm in Texas, I'm in Ohio, I'm in North Carolina s., I'm in Michigan, I'm all over the place, miss Wisconsin back, but he puts a lid on so I left I didn't know what the hell I live once I've only been doing this for three and a Half years or so, but I'll, let you know you're not going to go out today, you're going to stay in your apartment or, let's put it this way in his basement so early in the morning, he's put a lid on. That means nothing for that. I guess they do that for the press, the fake juice goes home and they say how great he is as a candidate. They go home and they say he's a great candidate, but he put another letter in many lists, so he did a lead today early in the morning that he won't be working today and I don't know I'm working so hard -- maybe he's right! Think of it, supposing he never campaigns and he wins. You know how badly I'm going to feel. I'm working hard and you've got to work hard, and you know what I said today. We cannot have a low energy individual as our president. We can't and he's the lowest energy individual I've ever seen. I've ever seen so we'll see what happens but he's living up. Maybe he's going to be great at the debate. Know he's been doing it for 47 years. Somebody said: Oh, he won't do well at the debate. I said I think you're wrong. He'll. Do fine he's going to do fine you'll, give him a big shot of something and he'll go out. There have a lot of energy ups. He'll, have energy he'll be like a superman for about 15 minutes Biden's plan will crush Florida. My plan will crush the virus and we're doing it we're rounding third rounding. The third under my leadership, prosperity will surge normal life. I love normal life. We want to get back to normal life will fully resume the Florida, tourism and hospitality industries. Will reach record highs? It's what's going to happen, you say, and next year will be one of the greatest years we are going to have, I'm telling you mark it down and if I'm wrong you say I was wrong. I say sorry about that, but we're going to have a great year, we're gon na have a great everything our country is doing great. Our military has never been stronger, take it out so many bad ones, and hopefully it so strong that we'll never have to use it. You understand that you want to make it so strong. We've never had weapons like this. No, no country in the world ever possessed the power the weaponry. What we have is so incredible nobody's ever possessed it before. Not Russia, not China, not anybody we're the envy of the world hope to God. We never have to use them. That's all. I can tell you this election is about jobs and by the way, speaking of jobs, it's all made in the USA. Everything we have. This election is also about law and Order. You know they said, Oh, don't say, law and order. That's true! That's too tough for term they say sir say law and order very likely and then say, and safety and liberty, and this -- and I said No, no, it's about law and order. We have to have Lord these Democrat run. States are a disaster they're a disaster. You look at what's happening all over the country and many of them look at Portland. How bad is that I mean how bad is it, and I will say last night in Kentucky I spoke to the governor who's, a Democrat with a great title and he pulled out his National Guard and he's doing it good, and I give him credit. I give him credit, but mostly they don't want to do that. I say: let us send the National Guard, I did it and remember Minnesota we're going to win Minnesota, so I did it in Minneapolis minnesota. They were having a hard time and took a little long. A little longer than we wanted, but we got the OK to get in. We solve that problem in about 25 minutes. I think it took they form the line. That was the hard part. The easy part was just walking straight ahead. They never flinched. They were not socially distance, they were right next to each other. They had two hundred and fifty thousand dollar apiece uniforms. They had more stuff in their head, I'm trying to figure out what is it that computers and infrared goggles and everything and they walk forward with their canisters of tear gas and pepper spray, and it was remember the CNN reporter he went there. He got hit in the knee with a can of blood yeah, that's right. He got hit, he said I'm down, I'm down, he was down still too bad. I felt badly for him, though you went down ali Velshi, you remember, he was standing and he was saying this is a friendly protest. It's wonderful to see the lovely people that are here. You know he's ducking and behind him the entire city was burning down. You remember the entire city, why are they doing that? What's the purpose of it, I don't get it. I don't get it, but now he got hit on the knee with a canister of tear gas. They say it hurts and that's only going 52 miles an hour. A bullet goes about two thousand miles an hour, but they say it hurts, but they cleaned out that city in a half an hour. They had no problem. Minneapolis, that's one of the reasons I'm going to win. Another reason would be Ilan, omar omar we're going to win because of Omar. That's a beauty, that's really she's great she's great. She loves our country very much. She has a total disrespect for our country and I think she has hatred for our country. But I would say Omar is a big reason that we're going to win they're, not too fond of her in Minnesota, I'll, always fight for the right of all citizens to live in security and peace. We have law and Order. Joe Biden is weak as hell. He surrendered his party to flag burners rioters and anti police radicals. The Democrat Party's war on police. You know a lot of people say cops. I never liked the word. You know my father sit down. Please come on we'll be here for a while. What we have nothing else, I have nothing else to do except run a country and the hardest part about running the country is dealing with crazy Democrats. You know we're working on stimulus for people, because this is not their fault. It was China's fault that we can't get Nancy Pelosi to approve it. She wants to wait till after the election. I said people want their money they're going to have any impact from that standpoint. People want their money now. The Democrat Party's war on cops is putting the lives of innocent police officers in danger, but my father had great respect, always had great respect for law enforcement for the police and one time he said Dad. The cops are out there. Look at that. They look great. He says never use the word. Cops, it's police, that's the kind of respect he had. He thought I don't want to. You know right. Look. I have a couple of pretty rough. Looking guy. No, it's true, so I always find it a little hard. You know I just left an impression as police. He thought it was slang and I don't think they mind. I don't think how many we got a lot of them here. Does anybody mind that term cops who's out here? That's a police, man or woman policeman. Do they mind a lot of a lot of them? Do they mind that term cops? No, they just want respect and they just want to be allowed to do their job properly, as nobody can do it. Do you agree with that? That's what I say all right now start calling the cops. You said wait a minute. I just respect us and let us do our job. Earlier. This month, two sheriff's deputies were ambushed at close range in Los Angeles, California. I called them both and they're. Ok, but they were hit, they were hit bad last night. As you know, two police officers were shot in Louisville Kentucky every year. Dozens of courageous police officers lay lay down their lives for people that they never met, people that they don't know people they never saw in most cases right. They lay down their lives for people. They never met. They're, incredible law enforcement, let's give them a hand lee. Thank you very much. That's all. I tell them all the time you know we have endorsements from all of them, but I tell them all the time you have no idea how much you love. You know they don't hear it because they watch the fake news at night and you don't get it. You don't get the truth. So that's a lot of guys a lot of people back there. That's a lot of fakers back to loot, all those red lights. The red light means your own life. You know the problem with being on life. You make a little bit of a mistake and they say this was a horrible. That's enough! That's very dishonest! It's a shame really does hurt our country, it's so fake. They don't show the protesters, they don't show it. You know when you think that, like cities are burning down and storefronts are being exploded, people are being killed, they would have you believe, there's nothing happening. It's the most incredible thing. I don't even understand why, no matter where your philosophy is no matter where you stand, why would you want to show the facts show what's happening and then we fix it. The Republican cities don't have trouble the Republican states, they don't have trouble, you got it, you go to different states interval, they find it. You know some of these governors, friends of mine and their friends on both sides, but republican governors, red states. They look like how is a thing like this possible because they have law and order they have law and order. For this I mean that's what it is for the entire summer Joe Biden was silent as his far left supporters, assaulted, police officers harassed innocent Americans and set fire to buildings. They were rioters, they were looters, they were anarchists, he called them. Peaceful protesters is that the peaceful protesters, Joe they're, not peaceful. Now, maybe he believe he may believe it I mean honestly, they may set at peace scale I'll say that Piers. I think he believes it. I actually did it's the other ones that you have to worry about because they call the shots. Not him he's called for the ridiculous cutting of police funding abolishing cash bail. If you can believe that and the closing of our prisons, they want to close the prison. That's a good idea even describe law enforcement as the enemy he said, law enforcement is the enemy. How do you know? I assume I'll, ask the fact this? Has he taken it back? I said because he's taking everything back, he's taken anti fracking back he's taken pretty much everything back, but remember it's the first thing. They say that's what they stick with Biden's. Anti police crusade must stop. As president, I will always stand with the heroes of law enforcement and I was honored to receive the endorsement of 48 sheriffs right here in Florida three weeks ago and all over the country law enforcement from Texas, Arizona, Ohio, Oklahoma, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, New York's finest endorsed Me they've never endorsed a presidential, the National Troopers Coalition Chicago how about that chicago police. They endorsed me chicago and all the major law enforcement organizations all across the they go back home to mommy. They say Mommy, I'm so so you know the incredible thing about that. I didn't hear anything except our crowd. You know they have no voice they're screaming at the top of their lungs, but their lungs are very small and I didn't hear all of a sudden. You hear wow like this right here. It's true and people, if you wouldn't recognize him, we wouldn't even know they're here now tomorrow. The headline is so: you had one young protester. The headline will be tomorrow: Trump's rally broken up by protest, one very young girl, she's, a girl am, I allowed to say girl. She looks like she's like 16 years old, how the hell does that happen. Two hundred and fifty generals and military leaders also hundreds and hundreds of military spouses have given their complete and total endorsement to our campaign to uphold the laws of our land and to uphold our Constitution as written on Saturday, I will be announcing my nominee to the United States, it's gon na, be a big deal, we're doing it on day, we're doing it at the White House. The Rose Garden of the White House, unless it's raining, in which case we'll still do it, that's something that's beautiful, the White House so beautiful. We love the White House right outside the Oval Office and you know they don't want us to do it. The Democrats say you shouldn't, do it why we have a lot of time? Let me ask you the one simple question: if it was them instead of us, do you think they do it? Hi thanks. This will be a very talented person. It will be a woman, I'm sorry man. It will be a woman all right ready who would rather see a man. Oh that's trouble. Try it again, who would rather see a man, that's not good, who would rather see a woman. I think it would be. I really, I think, would take tremendous courage. I don't care how great the man is. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell you that jim Fitzgerald and then you would see a lot of very unhappy faces. My opponent refuses to release his lists of potential justices because they will be hand-picked by extremists. Like Representative Alexandria, Ocasio, Porter, sometimes known as aOC plus three right as he and one of the three I think is Omar right, but they'll pick the person. So if Biden does that, if he puts an extremist into that position, he loses everything. That's like normal, and if he does the other way he loses the left, so he doesn't want to give it up. I'd love to have him put up a list. I'd like to see what that I could see what that list would be. I could already tell you: the people on that list would not be good, it would not be pretty. You would not be happy. That would be the end if given power Biden and his supporters would pack the court, you know they're talking about back into court, because we have won races. We have won I'll, tell you what so this will be my third and we're in great shape. You see that, do you see what's going on with the Republican Party, how unified the Republican Party is right now we're unified, it's a beautiful thing to say. Thank you Mitt! Thank you yet even Mitt's on board, even some or not it's a good thing to say having a unified party, of course, when they did the impeachment hopes we had one hundred and ninety seven to nothing in the House and fifty two and a half to a Half that was bit, but that's OK., I'm no longer angry at Mitt, because he's being very nice on the Supreme Court, he's good he's doing the right thing. I just wanted to do the right thing, but they want to pack the court. You know that means they want to put out a lot of justices. These are things that are just horrible. I guess we could do that too right. We could do that, but remember it was Harry Reid that made this all possible. You know they're angry at us. Listen Chuck crying Chuck, you know Brian Jenkins chuck. Every time you complain remember. It was Harry Reid, your person in charge. He had your job before it was Harry Reid, who made this all possible. Thank you very much Harry. I hope you're enjoying your. They blame us. Harry Reid, gave us the power nuclear option. Thank you very very much. He wants to pack the court Supreme Court with radicals who will terminate the Second Amendment confiscate your firearms eliminate the right to self-defense strike under God from the Pledge of Allegiance at all other places, tear down crosses from public spaces and force taxpayers to fund extreme late Term abortion, these far left justices would release violent criminals. Shield foreign terrorists impose sanctuary cities and declare the death penalty totally unconstitutional. It will be totally unconstitutional. They wanted declared unconstitutional for even the most depraved mass murderers, and it's a tough thing. It's a tough thing. They came to my office today and the death penalty for clemency. I said What was the crime? The crime was so horrible that I won't tell you what it was, but it's been going on for 21 years or so the crime was so horrible that this person committed. That, I said, Look I just can't talk about. It was so it was so horrible and that's usually the case, usually the case like the Boston bomber and by the way they want to give votes to prisoners, people in prison. They want to give us. So we immediately said: remember: Bernie, Crazy, Bernie Bernie is I'll. Tell you one thing about him: he's the greatest loser. I've ever seen. No, I mean that in a respectful way, because what they did to him with Hillary was bad, but this guy was even worse. Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren would have left the campaign one day before Super Tuesday bernie with her ideology, basically because she's a radical left and she was really fresh to him, but she was really fresh. How bad was Elizabeth Warren to Joe Biden? There's only one person that was worse, who was worse kamala, I said you'll. Never. This shows you my great instinct, my great knowledge of politics. I said he will never bet Kamala, because no human being has been treated worse than anybody. Then Kamala. Remember she called him. A racist she called him xenophobic. She called him all sorts of things. She called him things that were so bad. I can't say him I can't say, but she called him a lot of things. I said well she's out and then he picks her. She picks her. We always pick people going up not going down in the polls. You know if I were going to pick and by the way. How good is Mike Pence? Is he grabbed he's a solid guy and he's a great guy and a great vice president, and he worked so hard he's all over the place. He's in Michigan is and he's everywhere. Where do you go today Mike? I went to Michigan North Carolina, South Carolina, I went to wisconsin and the guy. I tell you what he's an incredible guy and he's a great guy and he loves the people of this country. He loves our country. You cannot do better than Mike Pence. You know, if you want to save America, you must get out and vote it. Just three and a half years we've secured our borders rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S. military obliterated ISIS caliphate, one hundred percent fix our disastrous trade deals and they were a disaster. I read some of them. I said who agrees to this stupid people agree to it and brought jobs back home to America, and we brought them back. You had the greatest year. You've ever had last year, the greatest year, you've ever under 16 years of Presidents Obama and Bush household income rose only two thousand nine hundred and forty five dollars OK. That's over a course of 16 years, close to 3000 right in three years and including energy. Because look at the saving, How are you doing at the gas pump? Not so bad right? Did you ever see that everything that was going down in three years, so that was less than three thousand over sixteen? In three years you went up ten thousand dollars, including energy. We lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction in the first three years of any president in the history of our country. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world, not only here anywhere. We were beating everybody. You know for years I heard that China in 2019 was going to overtake us right that didn't happen and they released the plague. But that didn't happen and it still is not happening with the plague because they got hit hard themselves. I wonder if they understood that they were going to get hit too, but the plague came here. They could have stopped it. They could have stopped it from going all over the world 188 countries all over the world, including Europe and the United States. We've added a record 10.6 million jobs in the last four months, including 3.3 million jobs for Hispanic Americans, that's a record both when the plague arrived from China, we launched the largest national mobilization since World War 2. We pioneered lifesaving therapies, reducing the fatality rate 85 percent. Since April you see what's happening. Europe has almost a 50 percent greater excess mortality rate than the United States, and now you see they're being hit very hard. The fact is, we're saying: well, I don't know if you've done as well as Europe, I said we did better than Europe and now Europe is exploding again. Unfortunately, I don't want that to happen, but they don't want to talk about that, because that's not good for their narrative. Our early and aggressive action saved many millions of lives through Operation warp speed. We developed and distribute a vaccine. We will have a vaccine so soon you won't even believe it, although they're trying to do a little bit of a political hit. Let's, let's today, it's just a little bit. You notice that let's delay the vaccine just a little bit, but we have three great companies and then others also johnson and Johnson right, pfizer, modena great companies, all of them great companies and they're right. There they're way advanced way, advance or in the final steps. I took historic action to get critical relief for American workers through our paycheck protection program. We save 3.2 million Florida jobs, we're launching a historic effort to bring our medical supply chains back home where they belong. In 1996, Joe Biden voted to obliterate Puerto Rico's. Thriving pharmaceutical industry -- I am reversing that and we're going back so that Puerto Rico can get its pharmaceutical industry back and they're going to have it back. That was Joe Biden that did that and then they'll vote because automatic that they vote for a Democrat. What's the purpose he's the one that did it he's the one look, what he did, how devastated look at what he did to our African-American community and people don't want to talk about it, but what he did was devastating devastating he's not good for he's, not good. For anyone, let's face it last week, I also announced an additional 13 billion dollars that goes to disaster relief for Puerto Rico. They got hit hard. I hope they remember that that was given by Trump, not by the Democrats. Our hearts are also with the communities in the panhandle. I love the panhandle ron, we'll talk I'll, tell you you're a great governor and he's doing a great job. He called up. He said the Panhandle said, Sir. They love you in the Pan. I think I'm at about 99.9 percent in the Panhandle, but we took care of we took care of the panhandle, remember hurricane Sally. That was not good, but we took care of it. Ron came into my office and say Sir. We need more money. I said how much he gave me a number. You don't even want to believe. I said You got it Ron, don't come back Ron. He comes back about three days later, sir. We need more money, but that's I guess a the governor 20 good governor does right. That's what a good governor does. I approved a major disaster declaration for the state of Florida last night and we will be with you every step of the way every step you're there we're there so fast. We sometimes you know. Other presidents took a long time to approve them. I approve them before these storms hit shore because we know what's going to happen, we took care of Florida on November 3rd Florida will decide whether we end the pandemic and return to record prosperity or whether we allow Joe Biden to kill the recovery delay. The vaccine impose a four trillion dollar tax hike ban American energy, which he wants to do destroy the suburbs he's going to destroy the suburbs, give free health care to illegal aliens, which means millions and millions of people are going to pour into our country and indoctrinate Your children with poisonous anti American lies in that class in their school to combat the toxic left wing propaganda in our schools. I announced something last week that was very popular, that we're launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students goal 1776. Commission we'll teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and you haven't seen anything Yet you see what I've also issued an executive order to prohibit the teaching of critical race theory and the federal government that hateful Marxist doctrine paints. America, as a wicked nation, seeks to divide everyone by race, rewrites American history and teaches people to be ashamed of themselves and be ashamed of their country. That's not happening anymore. We fired so many of these wise guys. We had one getting three hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year teaching our military, this stuff -- and you said what happened we said: you're fired, get out, many people know it's just become: it's become a cancer, it's like a cancer, but many many people gone they're all Gone and if they're not let us know and we'll let them go, but we have to unite together as one proud American family. That's what we are we're joined tonight by some incredible warriors: some incredible people, one of them that I'm most proud of is a man that came to this state and what a job he's done. Your great Governor Ron, DeSantis he's doing a great job ron, is doing a great job ron. How are we doing in the election? How are we doing on November 3rd Ron? He says Good, we better do good. Well, he won a great primary that he beat a man that they said had a good future. I'm not thinking his future is looking to his future. I don't think it's too bad right now. Ron was great, tough and strong, and he didn't choke under pressure. That's for sure, but much more important than Ron is the first lady of Florida, casey Jr., said the mayor of Jacksonville a really good guy. I got him to really he wanted to do it so bad. We wanted to have our Republican National Convention right here in Jacksonville, but the timing was a little bit bad. We got hit a little bit with the Corvette, as they say we got hit a little bit with the China virus, but I'll tell you what lady Carrie was absolutely fantastic. Your mayor, Lenny Curry, all right. You ready some of the greatest toughest warriors you'll ever meet during the impeachment of say said: this is the big is vile, like crap about this, I'm the only guy in history that got impeached for an absolutely perfect conversation. It was perfect. We sent it around. Everyone said what's wrong with this: we said it to the Justice Department. Please check this. Thank goodness we had people that were taking it down. Right, exact notes, great patriots, they took it down two of them and it was perfect. We said it to the Justice Department. Please examine this conversation we'd like to know what you think they called back. They said, oK., Listen! What exactly are you looking for here? You know these guys are used to looking at killings and drug dealers and they're saying explain to us. What are you looking for? We don't see anything yet. This was the greatest hoax and today, by the way you see what happened they caught him. They've got him cold, they got him cold, we'll talk about it and his said they caught him. They now find out that Trump was 100 percent. Truthful it was a hoax, they got a call that was just announced, dance Gambino just said it's the biggest the smartest thing on the Internet. They got him cold, we'll talk about it in a second, but these are warriors when I needed warriors. I had a rEPRESENTATIVE MATT gates with what a great guy, what a guy big future. Thank you Matt. What a warrior! Thank you, but he's very shy on television right. I know this is great. Thank you. Matt ted, Yoho, Ted ted great job. Now you know a man that is in charge of all spying. He was so good that Matt and Ron and Ted and Mike Walters and a lot of people came to see me Mike another great one. Thank you Mike is John Rutherford. Here was where what a good job John! Thank you thank you for the help. Thank you Joe, but Mike Walsh has been so great and candidate for Congress. Cat karma cat, so Cat was in the Oval Office yesterday right and I said How "
"Well, thank you very much, Pittsburgh, a great place. You have always treated me well. Thank you, Pittsburgh. Thank you very much. I'm thrilled to be back in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. And by the way, the home of the Pittsburgh Steelers. Congratulations, congratulations. Good team, great quarterback, don't you think? I think he's good. Big Ben, right? Big Ben he's a good man, he's a good man. Forty-two days from now, we're going to win Pennsylvania and we're going to win four more years in the White House and we're all entitled to it, I will tell you that. With your vote, we're going to lift our nation to extraordinary new heights, we're going to turn the page forever on the failed political class, and that's exactly what we've been doing. And we're going to defend our jobs, our families, our borders, and our treasured way of life. And remember, we now put America first. We do it. It's been a long time, it's been a long time. This is the most important election in the history of our country. I believe that and this election is a matter of economic survival for Pennsylvania. You had the greatest year you've ever had last year and you're really on your way. We were very, very sadly disturbed by what happened with China. They let the plague out, they shouldn't have done it.  But you're now on your way, we closed it up. We saved millions of lives, that's the bottom line. We closed it up, we saved millions of lives, and I will tell you, you see what's happening. You see the numbers as well as I do. You are on your way to, I think, maybe economically the best year. This next year will be the best year we've had. And the third quarter, wait until you look at the third quarter and look at the numbers. They will be out before the election, but I predict they'll be very good. By the way, if they're not, I deny I ever said it. I deny it, but I'm pretty confident they're going to be incredible, probably the best ever. Under my administration, we proudly achieved energy independence. And don't forget, I am not the candidate, two, two candidates. That's it. We're not going to have fracking. We're going to ban fracking and he said that for a year.  Then all of a sudden he said, well, maybe we'll have some fracking. By the way, you know, that's not going to last because the radical left won't let him get away with it, and I'm all for fracking. You know, I was in Texas. Well, it's a big part of your economy. It's energy. It's -- it's, uh, just a tremendous part, but I was in Texas two weeks ago. And my opponent is against oil, guns, and God  And I just spoke to the Governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, a great guy. He said I think you're up 15, sir. I said, well, the fake news says I'm up four. I said -- he said you're not up four and I won it buy a lot last time. Remember last time with you, with Texas, with many states? It's too close to call, we don't know, and then boom. The polls closed, they say, Trump won, Trump won, Trump won. We won a lot and I won Pennsylvania. Because of you, I won Pennsylvania and you had your best year. So I mean, that's the way it's supposed to work and I think we're going to win a lot. Don't forget, last time I came in, I said I was going to give you the tax cuts, the regulation cuts. I said we're going to do big things with energy, big things with steel. Your steel mills, every one of them would have been closed and gone had I not won, but I said I was going to do all these things, so it's tougher. Now, I've done everything I said and more. I've done more. I've done more than I said. So this should be easier and I hear we're doing really well. I know we're doing really well based on, you know, we came in with a lot of your great Congressman. I said how are we doing this year? They said you're going to win it by a lot, but we better win it. We've got to go out, we've got a vote. But powered by the incredible workers of your state, you are now really if you look at it, the No. 1 producer -- think of it. We are as a nation, your state is -- you have no idea how big an energy -- do you know how big you are in energy? People don't think of Pennsylvania in that way. Do you have any -- do you have any idea? And as a nation, we're the biggest in the world by far, not even close and we are energy independent. Think of that. But no longer is America at the mercy of these foreign suppliers and all of the people that took advantage of us for so many years. We now don't have to be in other parts of the world. We're there, perhaps to help allies, we're there perhaps to help good people, but we're not there because we need their energy, because we need their oil. Instead, we're the dominant energy producer. We're going to keep it that way. We're going to always have it that way. This, by the way, our opponents, they don't want petroleum products, OK? They want wind. Let's open up wind, let's have some wind and every once in a while the wind will blow and you'll produce a couple of things, and then you can -- then you can close down your plant for the rest of the season. You can watch those birds fly out of the sky. Gee, I always say it's a bird graveyard under the windmills. It doesn't have the power. It doesn't have the staying power. Do you see what's happening in California? Blackouts, rolling blackouts. How would you like that in Pennsylvania, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania?  Darling, what's wrong? I can't watch Trump on television today. I can't watch your President. Darling, we have a rolling blackout. It'll only be a few hours. I think we'll be on by two o'clock in the morning, darling and we can watch a rerun. No, this is what's happening. You have rolling blackouts. You have, in some cases, it's just blackouts. They don't even call it rolling, not going to happen to your state. Last year, I visited the Shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County, Pennsylvania. The largest investment in your state's history and that was all made possible by our pro-energy policies and we've done it a lot. In Louisiana, we're building some of the largest -- the largest plants you've ever seen, largest in the world and it's incredible. All related to energy, but your security and your jobs are in very grave peril because the radical-left maniacs, they don't want to have anything to do with energy. They don't want anything to do with, uh -- they -- they have different concepts, right? They have the Green New Deal, where there will be no energy almost of any kind.  No, it's -- it's crazy, thought of by AOC plus three, do you know AOC plus three?  not a good student, not good at anything, but she's got a good line of crap, I'll tell you. Who's got a hell of a lung and she's got them. You know she's radical left, but she's not as bad as some of them. How about Omar of Minnesota?  We're going to win the state of Minnesota because of her, they say. She's telling us how to run our country. How did you do where you came from? How is your country doing? They're going to tell -- she's going to tell us -- she's telling us how to run our country. And you know what, the Democrats in Congress you have to see what they are doing. Their stance on Israel, it's like a whole different world. It's like from 10 years ago, it's like a different world, and we want to keep our world the way it was and the way it's going to be. We've got the greatest country on earth and we're going to keep it that way. We don't need socialists and we don't need communists telling us how to run our country.  You know I do this every night and a lot of times it's a waste. I did it last night, we were -- did you see the crowd we had last night? We were in a great place, Ohio and we had a crowd. We had a crowd, you couldn't see the end of it, and I said turn around camera, turn around, but they never liked doing that you know. They don't like spinning those cameras. They don't want to show the crowd.  They don't like showing -- they don't like showing -- show the crowd. This is -- it's an honor, let me tell you. Look, you know, I used to think there was a difficulty like it was a new camera that can't turn. But then, whenever there was like a problem like there'd be a little argument or some kind of an anti-Trump person. You don't see that much. I don't want to bring it on, but you don't see it much anymore. Do you know why? It's dangerous, it's dangerous for them, but you know I'd see the camera would never move. But whenever something like a little negative happening, that thing would turn around like a pretzel, and I said, oh, it does move. But they never want to show the crowds they'd never -- last night -- now, I went home and I tell you this. I go home all the time. First lady, how do you like the crowd? Sir, I didn't see it. I didn't see it, but I didn't see it, Donald. I didn't see it. Sometimes she would call me Mr. President, but she's only kidding. Believe me, she's only kidding. Had she been a great first lady, right? She's been a great first lady and very popular. She's really done a great job and she works hard. You know, we have some great people here tonight. I brought certain members of my family, but I'm going to introduce them to you in a little while, right, great family. They work hard. I'll tell you what, they work hard. They really work hard, but I do wish -- I do wish they would show because it would be -- you know it's actually better for them if they show. It shows the importance. The only thing he can do is -- it's true. I'll say, how did it look? I don't know how it looked, but the sound was phenomenal, OK? It sounded like a Penn State football game like the Steelers football game. You know you can't -- these guys, do you ever see sleepy Joe with the little circles? It puts him very far away, so far away and then he comes up with the mask. He's like 100 yards from the nearest human being he's got a -- he feels good about the mask. I wonder in the debate, it'll be him and I on the stage. Is he going to walk in with a mask? I'll be honest, he feels good about -- he feels good about the mask and that's OK. You know what, whatever makes you feel good. He feels good. He feels good. I mean honestly, what the hell did he spend all that money on the plastic surgery if he's going to cover it up with a mask? Seriously. Oh, hold on. No, I think he'll come in with a mask. I don't know. You have no -- I have no idea. Well, the question is, will he leave it on during the debate? Because it's a little hard and I'm all for a mask, but when you need them -- but when you're making a speech and the nearest person's like where you are and you're on the stage all by yourself, and then he had a habit of taking it off and it hangs down in his ear as he's speaking and he feels comfortable. It makes him feel comfortable, and you know honestly, whatever makes you feel good is OK with me, but it'll be interesting. I'm going to be -- it would have a big rating on that, and you know, he's been doing it all his life. He's been doing it for 47 years and I've just started doing this stuff. I've just -- I've just started, but you know, I'm just thinking, but I did more in 47 months than he did in 47 years. It's true, it's true if you look at what we've done.  No, it's true. That's actually true. I did a lot of negative stuff too. You have to deduct that out. When asked if there would be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking. In a Biden administration, Joe replied, no, we would make sure that it's all eliminated. All of a sudden, he gets the nomination, you know, he's been trying to get the nomination for decades. He finally get -- and that was primetime for him, which was never great and he never got more than 1%. We called him -- remember I called him his first nickname was 1%, Joe. And frankly, had Elizabeth Warren been loyal to her philosophy, which is radical-left, socialism, perhaps communism -- I don't know, perhaps. It's verging on communism, right? But had she been loyal, she would have left, she would have quit, she had no chance, she was out, Pocahontas, she was gone. Remember I said I have more Indian blood in me than you have and I have none, and I'd love to have some, but I don't happen to have any. And then she choked and she went out and got a test and she announced yet 1,024, right, 1,024. That means like, I said it last night, that means around 700 or 800 years ago, somewhere, there was a little bit of a relationship going and that's OK, 700 or 800 years ago maybe. What a phony she is, huh? Isn't she terrible? And now, we're going to pick a great woman, anyone of the five that I told you, but any one of the women that we had. They're all great people, great scholars, great brilliant people  No, they're all great women. They're brilliant, great scholars. By the way, while I'm here, would anybody prefer that I pick a man? Is there any man that has the courage to raise your hand? There's one right there. I got one. We found one. No, we're going to pick an incredible woman, brilliant woman, and watch the abuse that she will take. Whoever it's going to -- the decisions are going to be announced on Saturday, five o'clock on Saturday at the White House. And you see we have tremendous Republican support, two people you know, always got to be two. It was going to be the two, those two. We have great support from the Republican Party, tremendous support. It's never been this unified before ever, ever. In the fake impeachment, we had 196 to nothing, Republicans support and we had 52 and a half to a half in the Senate. Who's the half? I can't imagine. I can't, but he was very good today. I have to tell you he was good. Now, I'm happy. Thank you, Mitt. Thank you. No, he's very good, very positive statement. But days ago, Biden reiterated his pledge to require net-zero carbon emissions. That's basically saying, do you know what that is? There'll be no more oil, there'll be no more gas, there'll be no more nothing, there'll be no more industry, there'll be no more country, that's what it's saying really.  And that would instantly shut down all fracking and all mining immediately in Pennsylvania, sending your jobs overseas, sending your money to somebody else, not you. And I'll keep your jobs in Pennsylvania where they belong and you're going to be doing fracking for a long time. But I can say the same because you are really big in energy and I can say the same thing to you as I say in Texas. So they don't want to oil, they don't want fracking, right? They don't want the energy that we know that powers these massive plants because the other stuff is wonderful. It's not going to do it. It's not going to do it. So they don't like oil, they don't like gas, they don't like God and religion. The churches are closed. How about these -- these states, you know they still have -- churches are closed. And by the way, your Governor hasn't been so great. You know that, right?  Are your churches still closed? Are they still closed? They're doing it for a reason. By the way, November 4th they'll announce, we've decided to open up, OK? They're trying to make our numbers as bad as possible. So California is closed, Pennsylvania's closed, North Carolina's closed, Michigan is closed. That's another beauty right there, Michigan's closed. And then they have these fake ballots, millions and millions of ballots. By the way, when, not if, when you see shenanigans, please reported to your authorities, OK? The real authorities, they're watching and the authorities are watching, but please report it. But when you look at it really, it's amazing and they're trying to make our numbers look bad, but even with numerous close states. And you know this also, law and order, right, law and order? The red states, the Republican states, they're working great. Record-low crime, record low, but Democrat-run states, you look at Chicago, you look at New York. New York has gone through a -- we have to bring back -- we should draft Rudy Giuliani, OK. That's beautiful, beautiful. We want Rudy.  Rudy, oh, I'll tell you. Rudy is amazing, but he did a great job. New York was in big trouble, he came in and he -- he just was tough, smart, and it became the safest big city. And now, we have a man where some categories of crime were up 300%. He fired 1,000 -- he fired a lot of police, I guess, $1 billion a year worth of police and the work of great police, firemen, and women. It's a -- it's a terrible thing. Oh, I love that place so much and it's so sad to see what's happening to New York. We're going to make a little bit of a play for New York. You know in theory, they automatically -- the Democrats automatically win New York, but I do phenomenally in most parts and then one part, it's automatic. But I can't imagine that particular part is going to be very happy, so we're going to make a play for New York. With Pennsylvania, I don't have to make a play, we've got Pennsylvania. Just go out and vote. We don't have to make a play here. We don't have to. It's a great -- you know for years, Pennsylvania was a place that Republicans just didn't win and for many years, everybody thought they were going to win, every Republican. So, yeah, we're going to win Pennsylvania. They thought they were going to win it and they didn't and I came along and we won it, and we want it quite easily, quite easily. And I think we're going to do even better now because remember, No. 1 in the history of your state last year and that's because of what we did. We stopped the dumping, we saved your steel. There are so many different things, but Pennsylvania is the home of American energy. Think of it that way and this has taken place over a very short period of time. Also the birthplace of a thing called the American Constitution, right? American Constitution. And to uphold our Constitution as written as opposed to as conceived by some radical-left judge. I will soon be announcing that nominee. You're going to love it. You're going to be so happy. If you don't love it, don't vote for me, OK, if you don't like it. My opponent refuses to release a list of justices. You know I -- I was told that a big thing when I was running last time, nobody really knew me. They knew me very well. We had great success at the apprentice and in business and it was great, but they never knew what kind of a judge I would pick or to be a justice, right, a justice of the Supreme Court. And I said, well, that's -- I mean, what am I going to do? How am I going to solve that problem? But you know, I was in politics never. Don't forget, when I ran they said, no, he's inexperienced and you know -- and I ran against some very talented people. Some of them -- some of whom are very good friends of mine, some of whom I don't like too much. You know when I don't like somebody that lasts for a long time. But I -- I said, well, how do we solve that problem? I don't know. They just weren't -- believe me. You know the appointment of a United States Supreme Court justice was much more important to the voters than I thought and they're right. Because they will set policy for 50 years and they'll set policy, whether it's life, whether it's Second Amendment. Your Second Amendment -- if I were President, you know the pressure. Your Second Amendment would be obliterated. It would maybe be gone, but at a minimum obliterated. They haven't touched your Second Amendment, not even touched it because I'm here to block. I'm a blocking force. I'm like a lineman for the Pittsburgh Steelers. I'm a blocking force. No, they haven't touched it, but your Second Amendment would be under siege, so nobody knew -- I never knew. You know you hear about Supreme Court, you know about Supreme Court, you know about other judges. By the way, at the end of the first term, we'll be close to 300 federal judges, including the Court of Appeals, which I think is a record. I guess it's a record. It's a lot. That's a lot. Nobody's done that and very important and that's a record. Three -- think of it, 300 that's a big percentage of the entire judiciary. Think of that, 300 and many, many Court of Appeals judges, but two great Supreme Court judges or justices, and now, we're going to get a third. Can you imagine -- can you imagine our enemies three in one term. So many Presidents, they just don't have the chance and it's so important, but I -- I said to my people. I said so if they don't believe me, what I'll do is I'll make up a list of 25 judges and or people, and we'll tell them I will only pick from that list. They said that sounds like an interesting idea. This was my idea. You have to be -- you know when you've never run for office before, you have to have a little bit of imagination, so I got out and  a list. I named the people, the people that I said, and I promise that I will pick someone like the people on this list and it didn't work. It went nowhere because they didn't trust it. They didn't trust it. They said we want you to pick the people on the list, not somebody like the people on the list, so I went back the next week. I said I will pick somebody that's on this list and they were all great, great judges for the most part. I think almost entirely, but judges and really respected conservative believers in our country, solid, incredible people. And as soon as I did that, things went through the roof. It was amazing, how important it was. By the way, would you stand up with that beautiful jacket? I love that jacket. I love this guy. How many times? How many events? He's been doing -- that's really great. Thank you very much. I've seen him before. He's been here a couple of times like about 90. Thank you, man. That's really nice. I'm going to get one of those jackets. By the way, and you know the wall, the wall, yeah, 330 miles, 330 miles, 330 miles. And yes, we have a great relationship with Mexico and you know, they keep saying, yes. First, they said you'll never be able to build it because I had -- the Democrats were just rude. I made a terrible mistake. I said it last night. I should have said we will not under any circumstances build a wall at our Southern border. They would have given me all the money in the world. But stupidly, I said we will build the wall and the Democrats said let's not give it to him, but we got it and we won. We won court cases, we won court cases, we won. Like I won so much money, we can build four walls if we want it. So then, they said all right, all right, we -- they know they've lost. I mean, we -- so, by the way, we're up to 330 the exact wall. Their dream choice. You know I said to the Border Patrol. I love these people, they're great, ICE, the Border Patrol. What they do is incredible. They're incredible. I said give me your dream wall, as long as we're building it, we might as well build the wall that you want. Let's build it right. Sir, we have to have vision. We need steel and concrete as -- how about one or the other? They said, no, sir, we need steel and concrete. We need steel and inside -- you know, inside those poles, we have rebar and we have concrete, right, and there are 30 feet tall. We need all sorts of things. We need them to be wired. I mean, I won't tell you why they're wired, but they're wired for a reason. They're all wired up and they're incredible, but you know what, we got the wall. Nobody could have done it. So once we had the wall and it started going up, and then, we hit 100 miles, 200 miles, and now, we're at 330 and we're building ten miles a week, and it'll be finished very soon. And we have the most secure border in terms of drug trafficking, trafficking, coming along, and we've done phenomenally well because it's a lot of -- the territory that we need, we're going to go up to probably a little bit over 500 miles. So we're 330, but once they saw that I had it, they said, yeah, but Mexico is not paying for it, OK? But they are paying for it. Mexico's paying for the wall. They are paying for it. They're paying at the border. They're paying for the wall. You know all those trucks going back and forth? They're paying for the wall. So the Democrats said, yeah, but Mexico -- they always have to find something, right? And do you remember what I used to say that if they fight us -- remember people would say, what happens if they fight you on the wall? What happens if they fight you right the hell on the wall? I said the wall would get 10 feet taller. Do you remember? It took a little hit on that. We took a little bit of a hit, but that's OK. The wall is that tall sucker. You don't want to get up to the top, they look down, they say, oh, yay, yay, how do we get down from there? It's tall and it's strong and it's great, and we appreciate it because Mexico has been working with us very closely. They have right now 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our Southern border making sure that people don't come into our country. I want to thank the President of Mexico, very helpful. So I made this list of potential justices and I'll tell you it all changed. Now, I'm asking sleepy Joe Biden to give me a list and he doesn't want to do it. Do you know why? Because he can only put super radical-left judges on, people that would destroy your country, people that would destroy your country, and he knows that if he's not electable, he shouldn't be electable anyway. , You know what I mean. He's the worst candidate. Do you know where he is today? They have a thing called the lid, lid. I don't even know. Do you know what lid stands for? lid? He put out a lid today early in the morning. Lid means he's not going to be anywhere today. I'm working my ass off. I'm in Ohio, I'm in Texas, I'm in Florida, I'm in Michigan, I'm in Wisconsin.  That's so nice. Well, that is something that one of the fake news reporters back there. They said they'd never heard of that one. There is a chant that's going on the last six or seven rallies saying, we love you. That's never happened to a politician before. Am I a politician? I don't want to be a politician. I don't think of myself as a politician, but it really is. I appreciate it and I don't think it. I've never heard it. I like Ronald Reagan, but they never said we love you. Maybe they did, they're going to try and find out. Then they'll say President Trump lied last night because 40 years ago, I remember, but, no, nobody's ever heard that one before and I appreciate it because it is reciprocal. Thank you very much, reciprocal, reciprocal love. It's reciprocal. I had such a nice life before I did this. I had such a nice life and I had the witch hunt that goes on forever it goes on. And then we catch them spying on our campaign, how about that? Think of it. Let's see what happens, though.  But we caught them spying. All of that, you know the whole big deal, and then the guys that were doing the investigation, they have there 31 different phones. They were accidentally wiped clean, 31 different phones. I think it was like 19 different people and they all did the same exact accident, which if you knew anything about phones, it's almost an impossibility to do it once, let alone 31 different times. So we caught them and that's called obstruction. We have to remember that's called obstruction.  That was the Mueller group, that was the Mueller group, all those phones they're wiped so clean. And you know, Hillary got a subpoena on the 33. I said forget about these things because you'll find them. They have them, they're in the State Department. I have no doubt about it. They're in the State Department, but they'll get them. But you know what, 33,000, they have a request from the U.S. Congress. That's not bad, U.S. Congress. They want to send a subpoena, very, very important and after getting the subpoena, she deleted all of her e-mails and acid washed, and then she took her telephones -- I've gotten rid of phones, too. I threw them away, right? She took cameras and she beat the hell out of them with a hammer and then threw them away, and they found a couple of them. They were not in a pretty, she was very angry, obviously, if she -- if she did the hammer work. But if anyone else did this, see, there's a protection, there's a dual level of justice, but we're getting down to the bottom of it because it's not fair to us. It's not fair to us. She deleted them on the basis -- 33,000 e-mails. She deleted them on the basis that it was all about her daughter's wedding, Chelsea, and also yoga classes, right? Thirty-three thousand e-mails on yoga and a wedding. I don't think so, and Comey me said, oh, that's OK. That sounds like a good reason. That's Comey, that's another beauty right there, that Comey.  Well, we caught them. We caught them, very smart move. Getting rid of that guy was a smart move, but we caught them. Listen, we caught them. They were spying on the campaign. They were doing actually worse than that, but there was -- nobody's ever done anything like this. So let's see what happens, but we caught them cold. We got so much stuff. Remember the ins -- the insurance policy, right, from Strzok and Page, two lovers. You know they were very smart, they would use the public servers and send it over the public wires because they didn't want to be caught having an affair, so they went over the public. That was a very good thing for us, wasn't it? Darling, darling, darling, please, she's going to win. She's going to win, isn't she? Peter, peter only you can save us. Peter she's going to win. Yes, darling, she's going to win I know, 100,000 to nothing. Remember that? Actually, it was actually 100 million to one. So this was 100 million to one. This is this -- idiot, so listen, so, darling, please, please tell me again. Yes, 100 million to one, she's going to win. But just in case she doesn't, we have an insurance policy. Now that only means one thing and we went through the insurance policy and we caught them. So let's see what happens to these treasonous crooks, these terrible people -- and they put our nation through turmoil, but I just want to thank -- a lot of people were very unfairly treated. If you look at General Flynn, look, he's still going through it. Can you believe it? But a lot of people were unfairly treated by a bunch of treasonous, horrible people and they used the intelligence agencies of our country to try and steal an election and to try and do a coup when you think -- I mean who would ever think this country. But that's all you can say. I mean some people would say, well, that's a conspiracy theory. No, just take a look at the records. So I -- I just it's just a very exciting -- for me, it's a very exciting thing because we found something that nobody would have thought possible. Now, let's see what happens, but we have them cold. They spied on our campaign, it's our campaign. And if you want to save America, you have to go out, get out and vote. This is the most important election. In just three and a half years, we've secured America's borders, which makes them very unhappy, rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S. military, we've built the military. It was totally depleted when I took over. We built a military, $2.5 trillion, we spent all made in the USA, the greatest equipment, the greatest planes and rockets and missiles and our nuclear. I hate to even mention the word, but -- and hope to God we never have to use it. But we have the most powerful weapons in the history of the world and we did that over a very short period of time. Weapons that are so powerful that we're the envy of the world. But I never want to use those weapons, and hopefully, we'll never have to. Do you know the way you don't have to use them is when you have them, it's when you have them, but nobody's ever built a force like what we have? And you know the newspapers and the press and the fake news they went and said he just gave away classified information. I said, no, I will look you right in the eye. Let me tell you. First of all, I'm allowed to do it, I'm the President so I'm allowed to. I'm the one -- I'm the only one that's allowed, but no, no, I didn't give away, I'm just telling you most powerful weapons ever produced. We have and other countries know that and it's a good thing that they know it, and I don't think we'll ever be using them and I hope we don't. I hope to God. I use the word God because they refuse to use the word God in their Ple"
"Wow, This is a big crowd. This is a big crowd.  Thank you very much everybody Do you know Bob? That we're going to win it by more than we did, whether we win it nine. We won by nine points. I just came into that big beautiful place, got more televisions than any plane in history. They've got televisions and closets and bathrooms, on the floor, on the ceilings, and I just saw that we're tied in Ohio. I don't think so.  They say President Trump may have a slim lead in Ohio. They're not even campaigning in Ohio, come to think of it. No, they're fake polls. They're almost as fake as the writers themselves. They're all fake. Remember last time, they said, no, he's going to lose Ohio. We won by nine points. So we had seven swing states last time. President Trump is going to go home early, but it wasn't President at that time, it was just Donald Trump. He will go home early and we did. We went home early, as victors, right? But we had -- we had nine states. They had one of their crazy papers, New York Times. You know they hired that guy. They paid him millions because he never predicted wrong. He was wrong, I don't know if they had a contract where they could fire, but they hired this guy. We had nine states, I was down in all of them. On the day of the election, I was going to lose all nine, and guess what? I won every one of them. Fake polls, they're fake polls. And then, we have a crowd like this. I don't know.  Look, you know where the camera is, are you turning around? These guys are bad people. I swear. They never turn the cameras around ever.  Turn them around, turn them around. They never turn -- look at them. They're just like a bunch of stiffs, real stiffs. Why don't you turn the cameras around for once? You know, you look back and you can't see it. There's got to be -- feels like -- feels like Madison Square Garden on the ground, except we have more people. Oh, boy, it's always tough. You know we go through this all the time. We're always asking them -- look at these crowds. I mean it's far -- you can't see it. You have this prime territory like you should be in the real estate business. Now, as far as the eye can see back there, the cameras don't -- they don't get it. You only hear it from the sound. I go home, I say to the first lady, did you see that crowd we had tonight in Ohio? And she goes, no, no, they just keep it on your face, that includes Fox. They just keep it here, right here. They don't want to show. You know what? They don't know and what they don't get is that showing this kind of activity is a good thing for them. It's positive for their ratings. It's really a good thing, but they don't want to do it, but I give up on it. You know what you do? You hear it because you can't have -- you know when sleepy Joe Biden -- he's got the circles. Do you know those big circles? And do you know why he has the circles? He's got four of them because they can't -- I mean think of it. He is a guy who's failed every time he ran. We called him 1% Joe and now he's shot and he got that nomination. How the hell does that work out? How does that work out? But he's got the circles. He's got like four sometimes he has six because that's a good way of saying if you don't have any people just put him in the circle, and he's practicing the science. No, it doesn't work out, but we're going to win four more years in the White House. We're doing things that nobody's ever done before. We're doing what nobody has ever done and thank you for being here. You know I wish we could move the press back further if you want to know the truth. As our nation mourns the loss of Supreme Court Justice  Thank you, everybody. Thank you. So as our nation mourns the loss of Supreme Court Justice, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, I will soon announce a nominee for the United States Supreme Court. They say is the most important thing a President can do. I don't know, I think military maybe. You know, we rebuilt our military, $2.5 trillion.  Great. We will fill that seat. It's going to go quicker, probably announce the person. I don't want to make the men too angry. It will be a woman. Is that OK? I don't want to have a problem with men. They'll say Trump is doing very poorly with men. You know, you listen, how is he doing? Well, he's doing very poorly with men, with women. He's doing very poorly with the Black community, Hispanic community. And then, you have the election night, doing very poorly with those with diploma, without a diploma, college, PhDs, what's he doing well? Oh, no, it's going to be a very short night. Then, they say Donald Trump is the projected winner by a lot and they say, well, what happened is he did very well with women, did very well with men, diplomas, he did well with African-American community. By the way, we are doing really well with the African-American community, with the Hispanic community, we're doing well with women, we're doing very well. We're doing well with suburbia, suburbia. You know, I ended a regulation that will destroy suburbia. If Biden got in, they will destroy the suburbia. We call it suburbia of the world and we love it. I know it well; Westchester County, the suburban -- they sometimes -- if you say suburban housewife you're in deep trouble. So what you do is you say, suburban women. They love me. Do you know why? They love security and they don't want projects being right next to their house. That's OK. They don't want it. And by the way, that includes minorities because 29% to 30% of these suburban communities are minorities and that includes them. They don't want that. They want safe communities. They want great communities. They don't want to have -- they don't want to lose the American dream. It's very simple. I got rid of the regulation from Obama-Biden that was destroying suburbia, OK, destroying it. And I think suburbia has got to wake up because if they get in, do you know who's in charge? Do you know who's in charge of the program? Cory Booker, Cory Booker, Cory Booker.  So I think, uh, the suburban women and suburban men, and husbands and wives, and everybody. You better get smart because you're not going to have your dream very much longer if they get in. If I get in, you've got it. You've also got your Second Amendment if I get in. In 2018, we expanded the Senate majority, remember? They said -- first of all, I wasn't running, I wasn't running. It makes a difference. Wait until you see what happens. We're going to take back the House. We're going to get rid of this crazy Nancy Pelosi. Kevin McCarthy has done a great job. We're going to take back the House. People are so tired of her, people are so tired. Did you hear today the latest? So they impeach me for a perfect phone call, perfect. It was a perfect phone call, now they want to impeach me again. If I nominate somebody as I'm constitutionally obligated to do to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States. Go ahead, I want them -- I want them to do that. I want them to do that.  We will, we will, we will. If he puts forth a highly qualified candidate, we will impeach him. Well, I said, well, I'm the only guy in the world that could get impeached for trying to fill a seat in the Supreme -- so we're going to put up our nominee, who's going to be outstanding. We're looking at five incredible jurists, five incredible people, uh, women that are extraordinary in every way. I mean, honestly, it could be anyone. We're going to be announcing it on Friday or Saturday. And again, they say it's the most important thing and think of it. So in a single term, single term, by the end of our term, we will have nominated and had confirmed, I think it'll end up being over 300 federal judges, and hopefully, three Supreme Court Justices. Think of that, three. You know, some Presidents say they never get any, they last a long time. A lot of Presidents get none, we've had three. It's blowing their minds, it's blowing their minds, but for the people of Ohio, this is what you want. So it looks like we're going to have three and it's going to be very exciting. It's exciting even for me. I'm going to look forward to it. Probably, Saturday we will announce the nominee and it's somebody that you're going to have great respect for, great respect. Thank you, thank you. Big stuff, that's a big thing. You know they set the course of our country for many years to come, whether it's on life, for the Second Amendment, or so many other things. They set the whole course of the country, very important position, the most important. Joe Biden has refused to list the names of his potential justices because he knows they're too extreme to withstand any form of public review. If Joe Biden and the Democrats take power, they will pack the Supreme Court with far-left radicals who will unilaterally transform American society far beyond recognition.  They will mutilate the largest figure of the constitution and impose a socialist vision from the bench that could never pass at the ballot box. So they don't want to show the judges because the only ones that he can put in are far-left radicals. And if he does something even toward the left of center, which would be acceptable, I guess, we have no choice. If he did that he would lose the left, so he's going to have to put in radicals. So he doesn't want to show who his judges are. I've shown all -- a list, I have a double list about 45, from which I will only pick, but he doesn't want to do that. Because if you found out who he was going to pick, he would be unelectable. Hopefully, he's going to be unelectable, anyway, we're going to find out. So we wouldn't be able to survive a Joe Biden. You wouldn't be able to survive. You know, we've been calling it socialism. I don't think it's socialism. I think it's a step beyond. What they're talking about, you look at Portland, you look at Chicago, you look at New York, you look at Baltimore and Oakland and all -- these are Democrat-run cities that are horrible on crime, there's no law and order, no cash bail, no anything. And you know what, the Republican cities are running great, they're running great. And so, we're going to get it all changed around. We went into Minneapolis, we solved the problem like you wouldn't believe. What did it take? You saw it. What did that take? I would say probably 30 minutes, right? They should have called this in about seven days earlier. How about the reporter, he gets up there, behind him is a burning city. I never saw anything like it and he's saying there are really no protests here. This is very friendly and we call this a friendly protest because you're not supposed to have political rallies, you're not supposed to have anything. The only thing you can have is thousands of people running down a street, burning stores, looting, doing what -- that's OK because that's protesting, but we'll call this a friendly protest. But your children will be robbed of their future and the damage will endure for generations to come. We have to win. This is the most important election in the history of our country, in my opinion. And a lot of that's got to do with the fact that, you know, we're going to have one extra, but we didn't think this was going to happen. But I used to say, just a week ago, we're going to have one, two, three, four, and maybe even five, the next President and the Supreme Court is going to be a tremendous factor. A lot of people said that's the reason I won so easily in the Electoral College last time, 306, 306 to 223. He will not get to 270, remember? He will not get to 270. This will be a short evening for Donald Trump. Oh, good riddance. Thank God we got rid of -- oh, this is going to be good. And then, the problem happened. Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio, remember? Remember the one -- she was crying, she was crying. Donald Trump has won Ohio, but it wasn't winning Ohio. It was by the margin, where the hell -- he said where did this margin come from? They opened the polls and they closed the polls. Normally, you have to wait hours, unless it's a total runaway and they said, uh, the polls and the doors are closed in Ohio. Donald Trump is what -- I think, oh, my God. But wait a minute, he won by nine points. What the hell's going on over here? And they said Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. Donald Trump has won the state of Georgia. Donald Trump has won North Carolina, South Carolina, all right. Remember that?  It was at the most exciting evening, really. Remember? And it's not Donald Trump, it's you, it's all of us. We're -- it's not Donald, we use the name Donald Trump, it's all of us that won because it's just going to be -- and this one's going to be even better because nobody has done -- and they don't even challenge it, the fake news. Nobody has done in three and a half years, what we've done. We've rebuilt our military, $2.5 trillion, we've taken care of our vets, we have Choice, we have Accountability, we can fire people now when they don't treat our vets. We couldn't do that before. They could treat our vets terribly. We have Accountability. Nobody has done what we've done for our vets, 91% approval rating at the VA, 91%, the highest ever. So nobody's done it, that's why I think this is going to be the most important of all. I used to say, well, I don't know, how does that compare to 2016? I just gave that up. This is the most important election. You know why? Two reasons. Number one, that's over with, the hell with it. The hell with it. But the truth is, this is really going to be -- that's got a seat, it's got a seat in, and we have a lot of new things, including additional substantial middle-income tax cuts and other tax cuts, and -- and tremendous regulation cuts, and we're finishing up with our military. You know, we're building Space Force. The wall is going incredibly, it's going incredibly. Remember the wall. They don't talk about the wall anymore, the fake news. You know once we started building it and you'd think that was easy to build the wall. We had an entire party that would die for the fact -- and I made a terrible mistake in the wall. Instead of telling you, we're going to build a wall, we're going to build a wall. The Democrats formed, it was very tough but I got it. I'm a real estate developer, you can always get money. You know you learn. We have a lot of little pockets. We a lot of big pockets. The military was great. The Army Corps of Engineers were great. So up to -- we're up to 330 miles of wall. We're doing 10 miles a week and we're going to be finished with the wall very soon and it's exactly the wall, the little more expensive wall. They want like nice, expensive, but exactly what Border Patrol wanted. We're building them the exact wall that they wanted. We can't give them any excuses. We can't give them any excuses, but you know it's true. They used to talk about the wall all the time because they never thought I'd be able to get it built, right? Once I got it going, I got it built, I got the financing. We won a lot of lawsuits, by the way. We won a lot of lawsuits. They sued us, Pelosi was suing us, congress was suing us, Senate was suing us. We won a lot of lawsuits. Once it was obvious that we won and we started building, they never talk about the wall anymore. And I made a terrible, terrible mistake because I had to work my ass off to get that thing built. You have no idea, you have no idea, you have no idea. But I should have said -- the mistake, I should have said when I talked to these big crowds and the crowds are getting bigger. There's more enthusiasm now than we ever had four years ago. But I should have said instead, if we will build a wall, instead of we will build a wall. I kept -- we will build a wall, the place would go crazy. I should have said, we will not build the wall. Under no circumstances will we build a wall. The Democrats would have given us all the money we want. It's true, it's true. And then, they would have said, see he didn't keep his campaign promise. These people are sick. The Biden-nominated justices will shred our Second Amendment, eliminate the right to self-defense, and allow the government to confiscate your privately-owned firearms.  You know that. Put in other languages, they will end your Second Amendment, OK? And they will do that. By the way, if I wasn't here, you wouldn't have a Second Amendment right now. That would be gone. You know I hate to say it, I'm the only thing standing between you and chaos. I'm telling you and Second Amendments and all of the other folks. Biden's justices will remove the words under God from the Pledge of Allegiance.  Did you see that? Did you see it? They said, no, we'd never remove -- and I saw it. They're doing the Pledge of Allegiance and I said, oh, there must be a typo. They left the words under God out of the Pledge of Allegiance, the Democrats.  And I said, oh, there's a typo, typo. They made a mistake. What a stupid mistake. Can you believe it? That guy's in big trouble. What a stupid mistake. And then, I heard it a second time, they did the same mistake. I said what -- that's what they're doing. They're going to take God out of everything just like they want to knock down the statue of George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson.  And it's never happening and it's never happening. You know, a lot of these Democrat states, you see it, the churches are closed. They don't want our churches to open. You can have a riot where you kill people in the streets, 25,000 people don't have to wear masks, nothing. They can march down the streets, step on each other's faces. They can do whatever the hell they want. That's OK, but you can't go to church. They have ideas, they have plans, and it's never happening with me as your President, that I can tell you. And you see it, they want to tear down crosses from public spaces. You see it. You know, since I signed a little law, you know they were ripping down a lot of statues about four months ago, right? And I said, do we have any laws, like old laws when they were strong, when we were smart when we were tough. Sir, we have one. Sir, a General came in, what's the law, General? Sir, there was a law from quite a while ago, 10 years in prison. They didn't use the word jail, they used prison. Prison's a tough word. I said what do you mean 10 years? He goes 10 years in prison if you knock down a statue or if you knock down a monument. I say, General, let me see that sucker, please. Bring that to my office and we revived it because you can't get that approved by Congress. They would never do -- today in Congress, you do it, they'll give you a half a day in a hotel someplace. So 10 years, so they were having a big march on Washington in two days, and I signed this new law. We updated it and it was 10 years -- you get 10 years in prison, you touch, you knock down a monument, and there's no games. This is the old days. This is the days when we had strong laws when we had real laws, when we had real politicians that knew how to make laws. So here's the thing, so they were going to come in. They were actually looking to knock down the statue of a man named Thomas Jefferson. That's not too good, OK?  They had obliterated a lot of different things and so, I had a news conference. I announced that I'm signing a law that anybody that knocks down a monument or a statue, gets 10 years in jail. And the police in Washington and we had National Guard, we had Secret Service, we were all ready for them. We were going to -- but we were ready for them and the time came. That was the only problem, nobody showed up. Do you know why? 10 years was too much, 10 years was too much. It's amazing the way -- isn't it amazing the way it all works? So instead they burned down Portland. I speak to the Governor, I speak to the -- oh, the Mayor is hopeless, he's a hopeless, poor guy. They chased him out of his apartment and he still thinks they're wonderful people. They're burning down the city, but I want to go in there with the National Guard so bad. It would take us 15 minutes to solve the problem. When they heard in Seattle that we were going in -- you know, we were going in the next day. The guys just walked away, they left. That was the end of it. We had nothing to do, but they want to ban all prayer in public schools and require taxpayers to fund extreme late-term abortion.  Biden justices will erase national borders, they don't want borders, protect sanctuary cities, and compel the unlimited entry of foreign nationals, and if you look at some of these jihadist nations, uh, no, thank you. Somebody said that's not nice. That's not politically correct. I said that's OK. They'll cripple the police departments, free violent criminals, shield foreign terrorists, and declare the death penalty unconstitutional even for the most depraved mass murderers who kill women and children. That's what they want. They don't want any death penalty, not for the Boston bomber, not for anybody. You see, the Boston bomber, they're still trying this guy. What he did to so many lives. He ruined, killed people, ruined so many families, ruined so many lives. In three and a half -- and by the way, they want the Boston bomber to be able to vote you know that.  In three and a half years under my administration, we've secured America's borders, rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military, obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100%, fixed our disastrous trade deals, and brought jobs and factories back to the great state of Ohio. I love Ohio. I love Ohio. I don't know what it is. I was told by Bob and some of the Congressmen that are here, we have some great ones, I'm going to introduce them in a second, but I was told that they're not even trying for Ohio. Do you know why? Because I love you and you love me, and that's the way it is.  Thank you. I love you, too. You know it's very interesting, so somebody in the fake news media did a story yesterday because this crazy chant is going on. They have two about the seat and you know all that. But there was another chant that's happening at all these rallies. We're having massive rallies. We're in Minnesota, we had a tremendous crowd. Wisconsin, tremendous. Pennsylvania, every one of them. I mean, in all fairness, like this, everyone, but this rant is going on like it's crazy and it's we love you, we love you, we love you. And you know what? I don't want to say it. I'm just saying, they have not been able to find in the history of politics in this nation, even we loved Ronald Reagan, but we have not been able to find where people broke out and said we love you about, I guess, I have to call myself a politician. I don't feel like a politician. No, but think of it. How nice is that? I never heard it. I've been to a lot of different speeches and rallies.  I've never heard crowds go we love you. But you know why? We love you. I love you. But you know why? Because again, nobody has done what we've done. Ohio had the best year in its history last year. We had a great year and next year, assuming we win, which I hope we're going to win. But if we win, you're going to have a year next year. First of all, take a look at the third quarter. It's going to be announced, the numbers, just before the election, will come out three days before the election. And I'll tell you what, I'll bet on the numbers. Even though crazy Nancy and these people don't want to give any stimulus, they don't want to give anything. They want to keep a lot of states closed wherever they can. You know what they're going to do, they're going to announce, uh, they're going to be opening on November 4th, they'll be opening. All these closed states, they're going to be open on November 4th. One of the blew it, a teacher's union. Did you see it? No, we don't want it open now. We don't want to open the pandemic, the pandemic. We don't want -- we're rounding the turn of the pandemic. The vaccines are coming soon, but we don't want to open -- uh, around November 4th we're going to open. This person that's in charge of the union said that that was not good. I think they'll get rid of her quickly. I'm also proud that we have successfully brought back the Big Ten and the Ohio State Buckeyes. Right? You'd better have a good year after all of that. You have a good team, right? Good coach, good team, good everything. You have a good team. You always have a good team, but you know there was a case. I was sort of -- I -- what do I know? I said -- I said how's it going? Everything good? So -- they said, sir, sleepy Joe Biden did an ad that you, me, that you closed football. I said what do you mean I closed, I didn't close. I did an ad -- scroll this information, it's called the opposite of what the fact is. Not only didn't I close, I didn't think about it too much, OK? The states should all be open, but I heard about Big Ten football and because of this ad, I said, hey, wait a minute. I have an idea. It was a fake ad, just like the ad on the gravesites, and that allows me to say that this man is a gross incompetent. He has no idea because now, see, I would never talk like that, but when I saw that horrible thing -- and nobody's done more for the military than I have. When I saw that horrible ad, an anonymous source has said that Donald Trump said -- I have 28 people now that have come forward saying it's a total lie, they don't care, so they did an ad. Once they did that, I said, well, now the gloves are off. Let's face it. Joe Biden is incompetent. He always was even in primetime. He was incompetent in primetime. And now, he's really incompetent, but because of the ad, I said, you know, it's very interesting that ad. It's very interesting. Let me call up the Commissioner. I called up the Commissioner, a very good guy, and I said, Commissioner, uh, what can we do to get Big Ten football back? Well, I don't know and we've started and we started a little thing. The Commissioner, myself, one of my guys, he's fantastic. And within a few days, it started getting talked about, and then we kept it going and we helped them with some testing because we had the greatest testing in the world. We get no credit for it. We've tested almost 100 million people. India is second with 38 million and they have a -- they have 1.5 billion people, slightly more than you, but I will tell you. So all of a sudden, they have schools. They don't look like it was going to open without Michigan and without a couple of states. And then all of a sudden, the pressure became so great and the fall league is opening now and it's going to be very exciting. And I will tell you, I don't -- it's not a question of taking credit, but truly, we were the ones that did that. I mean it was. You know, I'll tell you when I do it and when I don't, but it was closed. It was gone. It was announced that it was closed and what really spurred me on was when sleepy Joe announced that I was the one that did it. I said I didn't even know it was closed, but once I found out it was, I called the Commissioner. He was really good I tell you and recalled a couple of the top people at the universities and they got it going. It looked like we had seven schools, eight schools, and all of a sudden, everybody fell into line. I think they're all open now. They're all -- every one of them is participating. So I want to thank the Commissioner. I want to thank all of those schools. May the best team win, in other words, Ohio State, that's a good place. Do you know who the best proponents were? The players and especially the parents of the players. You know these kids have a short window to get into the NFL to create some excitement and how good they are, and you have a lot of potential players, but they couldn't play football. And they said we're safer on the field than we are staying at home and they meant it. And we did something and I'm happy about it, so enjoy the football. Enjoy it. Under 16 years of Presidents Obama and Bush, median household income rose only $2,945, so remember that. That's 16 years, 2009, so let's say, $3,000. Under three years of President Trump, it rose almost $7,000 OK? So think of that, 16 years, three years, achieving the highest median income in the history of our country. In my first three years, we lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any President in the history of our country. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and we are doing it again, we're building it again. You know, I see those signs and make America great, make America great again. So I say this, it's called now make America Great Again, again. Because we did it and then, we had to close it up. We saved millions of lives and if we didn't do that, you would add three million people. It would have been terrible, it would have been just -- it's terrible anyway. They shouldn't have allowed it to happen, China. To defeat the China virus, we launched the largest mobilization since World War II. Through pioneering therapies, we reduced the fatality rate, 85% since April, think of that. That's Remdesivir and all of the things, the plasma, all different things, and wait until you see what's coming out. Europe is almost 30% greater excess mortality rate than the United States and that's before today's big breakout. You know they had a big break out in Europe and they keep saying -- in the fake news, they keep saying, oh, Europe, Europe, Europe. Well, we're doing better than Europe and I hate to see what happened and it had a big impact on the market today because it was a bad thing, but they had a big hit and they'll take care of it. They know how to do it, they'll take care of it, and we're working very closely with Europe and other countries, including on the vaccine. We have three vaccines right now that are right there, they're right at the starting gate and they're going to be fantastic, so it's great. And with Biden, if you had that with the regime, you wouldn't be -- you'd be three years away because you would have never gotten out of the FDA. What we've done in a very safe manner is amazing. Now remember this, Biden was in charge of the swine flu, right? It's called the H1N1, remember? He calls it the N1H1. I said, no, no, no, no, H comes before the N, it's so easy. But he goes, the N1H1, we say, no, but it's the swine flu. Maybe we just call it the swine flu. He did such a gross horrible job on that and his own man who is in charge of it said they didn't have a clue. They didn't know what they were doing. There was far less -- it was a much less lethal disease and they lost many, many people, many, many people. It was totally incompetently, and now, I got this guy standing up. We'll we're giving him advice. His own guy that ran it, did everybody see this, is saying they didn't know -- they didn't have a clue what they were doing. It was so bad. I don't know why the hell he said it to be honest with you. Who would say that? Maybe because he was honest, does that make sense? And now Biden gets up and he's going and he's saying to do the same things we've already done. He basically took our plan and he said this is what we should do, but we've among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country in the world and the fastest economic recovery by far of any Western nation, by far. Our bold an early action saved millions of lives and our decisive economic response saved tens of millions of jobs, including 1.9 million jobs in the state of Ohio. You know that. You know it. He's got one of them. He's got one of them. Through Operation Warp Speed, we're developing these great vaccines and that's going to be literally, these will be done in record time like nobody's ever done it before. On November 3rd, Ohio will decide, whether we end the pandemic and return to record prosperity or whether we allow sleepy Joe Biden and his group of incompetents to delay the vaccine, shut down the country. He actually suggested that he would shut down the country. We now know the disease, we didn't know it.  Now we know it. It affects elderly people, elderly people with heart problems, and other problems. If they have other problems, that's what it really affects. That's it. You know, in some states thousands of people, nobody young, below the age of 18, like nobo"
"Wow. What a crowd, what a crowd. Get those people over here me, to see me. Come on, let them come over. What is a big crowd, it's always big. We want to win, we got to win. We want to save our country from the radical-left, radical-left crazies. Thank you very much and hello, North Carolina. Hello, North Carolina.  We love you, North Carolina. I'm thrilled to be in Fayetteville with thousands of loyal hardworking American patriots, and you know it's going to happen. In 45 days from now, and you're watching those polls, they go up, up, up, up. Forty-five days from now, we're going to win North Carolina. We're going to win four more years in the White House, right? As we meet tonight. Our nation mourns the loss of a legal giant, Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Her landmark rulings, fierce devotion to justice, and her courageous battle against cancer inspire all Americans. You may agree you may not disagree with her, but she was an inspiration to a tremendous number of people. I say all Americans. Justice Ginsburg's close relationship with a friend of ours, a friend of mine, Justice Scalia, is also a powerful reminder that we can disagree on fundamental issues while treating each other with decency, dignity, and respect. You may not disagree with her, but she was an inspiration to a tremendous number of people. Thank you. Thank you. So Article 2 of our Constitution says: the president shall nominate justices of the Supreme Court. I don't think it can be any more clear, can it? I don't think so. I don't think so. What do you think, Thom? Thom Tillis, I don't think it can be any more clear.  This can only happen in North Carolina. I hope you hear that back home. Look at all that press, that's a lot of press. That's a lot of fake news, a lot of fake news. Well, I hope they hear so the chances are new one. Fill that seat, this is the chair. This can only happen to me. Fill that seat now. Now, it says the president is supposed to fill the seat, right? And that's what we're going to do, we're going to fill the seat. I love that chair. We hear more chances. A lot of genius in those chairs after. You said it better than you can say it. You can read a speech, but what's better than those words, fill that seat. You know what you do? You come up, you say, fill that seat. You leave and you've said everything, you don't have to bother. There have been 29 times a vacancy open during an election year or prior to an inauguration, 29 times, that's a lot. Every single time, the sitting president made a nomination. That included, did you ever hear of George Washington? Did you ever hear of Thomas Jefferson? Or how about the great Abraham Lincoln, where he wore the hottest fashion with the great hat. I want to try one of those hats, I love that. No, think of it. Twenty-nine times, every single time nobody said, ""Oh, let's not fill the seat."" We won the election. Now that we have some senators that, you know, forget it. We -- Think of it. I won't say it. I won't say it, Susan. I won't say it, Susan. But Thom Tillis is with us, I can tell you that, right? Great. We have great Republican senators, we have great people, and we have a great country. That's really -- we have a great country and we're going to keep it that way. So we win in election and those are the consequences, you know, it's called fill that seat, and that's what we're doing. The Supreme Court was a very central issue in both the 2016 presidential election and then the 2018 midterm elections which, by the way, I didn't run. You know, we had a lot of people -- a lot of people said, ""Oh, he really took a little bit of a shellacking."" Not nearly as bad as others. In fact, we gained seats in the Senate, but they never talk about that, right? They don't talk about that. We gained two seats, nobody talked about it. But we didn't run and I had a lot of people that, ""Sir, we'll never vote in 2018."" I said, ""No, no. Vote. Everybody, vote."" They just did. I think we were like nine million people decided they wanted to wait and they've waited, and you see what's going on, you see what's happening, you see the enthusiasm that we have which, by the way, we set a record in 2016. The bad news with the Democrats is, we are more enthusiastic now, not even close when we were in 2016. I mean, we are getting crowds and this is pandemic and we're rounding the turn, we're rounded the corner of the pandemic, OK, but we're having them outside and we shouldn't say this is some kind of a rally. From now on it's called a protest. We are protesters. You know, we're going to call -- we're going to call all our rallies that, because, you know, if you have -- you see a lot of these -- let's call them blue states, we want to be nice, we're going to call it a protest against stupidity, so we are going to have protest against stupidity. Because, you know, a lot of the people like in Michigan and other places -- We love Michigan but the governor's got them shut down. I hate to say it, your governor's got you shut down, it doesn't look at here but your governor has got you shut down. I don't know. You're not breaking a law by being here. Otherwise, if you are, if you are, we'll have to do something about that because there's a hell of a shutdown. I think the governor has to let this state open up  and Pennsylvania. Look what they're doing in Pennsylvania, a great state where -- That's actually something very special is going to happen here in Pennsylvania. It's a commonwealth. We always have to remember Pennsylvania Commonwealth, got two of them and you better remember or you get in trouble. But we love Pennsylvania and it's shut down. The governor's got to just shut down nice and tight. And you know what? On November 4th, it's going to be opened up because they're trying to hurt our numbers, but our economic numbers are so good. They're staggering, they're the best we've ever had. Jobs, retail, stock market, everything, and this is with a lot of shutdowns by Democrats. That's all they're doing. On November 4th, they'll announce we've decided to open up. One of the teachers' groups said, actually, what are the unions and what are the politicians in California said, ""No, we're not going to do it. We need to do -- We should be open by November 4th."" That was not a good thing for them to say. That person, I think, was fired, I think, was fired. In both the 2016 and 2018 elections, the American people chose a president and a Senate majority, united in their commitment to selecting nominees who believe in applying the Constitution as written, right? Both the White House and the Senate majority have a moral duty to fulfill the promises they made to the voters, and that is exactly what we're going to do. We said that if for any reason we have a vacancy in the United States Supreme Court, we will fill that vacancy, we're not going to say -- and by the way, we have plenty of time, there's a lot of time. You know you're talking about -- you're talking about January 20th, right?  So we will uphold equal justice under the law for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. I won't be putting forth a nominee next week. It will be a woman, it will be a woman, unless -- Wait. OK, let's do a poll. Oh, there they are. How many of these have you come to speaking of women? How many of -- What is this? Number one. Like 90, they're great. North Carolina, is that right? I see them all over the place. They're great. I hope your husbands are OK with it. Are they OK? They're OK, you have good husband. But we're going to do a vote, OK. So I said, ""You know, I love these free polls."" because pollsters -- and you know most of the pollsters are corrupt as far as I'm concerned, if we believed in pollsters we wouldn't be here right now. But we're actually getting very good, we just had a 53 from Rasmussen, which is very good. Considering we won four years ago with a lot lower than 53. History has shown that when you're 53 you can't lose an election. Has anyone ever lost an election with a 53? The answer is yes when the other side cheats. That could happen, that could happen. That could happen. You saw what happened in Pennsylvania, right. Some state Supreme Court justice just ruled that they could take as long as they want to count the ballots. That means I'll be leading and winning Pennsylvania like we did last time. Yeah, yeah. We'll be leading, we'll be winning Pennsylvania. We're going to win it, easy, we're going to win your state easily. You know I just came off the plane with, by the way, our great chief of staff, Mark Meadows. Did anybody ever hear of Mark Meadows? Where's Mark? And Deb, what a great -- she's doing such a good job. But you know Mark, just a few months ago, I've been trying to get him for three years to leave and we have a great person running as you know. Really. I mean, really great. Does everyone know Madison? Yes. You're going to vote for Madison? He's great, he's a great guy. But Mark had a beautiful head of black hair, and I just noticed, that hair is turning white, very fast, but we're doing a job. You know we're very close to a great deal with TikTok, TikTok. But nobody cares about that anymore. All they care about is fill that seat, right? That's all they care. Until about 24 hours ago, that's all they talked about. It's TikTok, TikTok. Well, we have a deal worked out, I think, with Wal-Mart is going to buy it along with Oracle, Larry Ellison, it's gonna be an incredible combination, and I said, ""You know, do me a favor. Could you put up $5 billion into a fund for education, so we can educate people as to real history of our country."" The real history, not the fake history. Because we're getting very close to that deal and all of the technology will be maintained here. They're going to move, probably, to the great state of Texas. Sorry, we've got you a lot of business . But they're going to move into the United States, which is what's important. They move it to the United States, unbelievable company. They're going to have 25,000 jobs. If it all goes, I gave them the preliminary approval but they're putting up $5 billion and my only problem is they did it so fast. I should have asked for more. You know, what happened is when I suggested they should put up a lot of money, everybody said, go -- senators, congressmen, women, everybody, they said you can't do that, that's never been done. That's the problem, nothing's ever been done. And we had other companies. A lot of people wanted it, and I said you got to put up $5 billion either to the Treasury of the United States maybe or into some education fund, or do something. And they were sort of agreeing with me, they thought it was OK. And then I went to the legal eagles here and I said, ""They're going to put up $5 million, give it to the United States."", ""Sir, you can't do that. There's no provision."" I said, ""How the hell can there be no provision?"" we're making the deal possible. Why can't they give us $5 billion? That's a B, With a -- That's a lot of money, right. Now watch the crazy Democrats, they'll go, ""They should have got more money, right. It's never been done before."" They should have -- No matter what you do. They should have gotten more. Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, crazy Nancy. But I'll tell you, and I said it last night we had a great rally last night you, saw that right? In place that we're going to win. We're going to win Minnesota. Hasn't been won since 1972. And they're all saying -- Well, we did give them back the big iron ore range. It was Obama. Took it away with the stroke of a pen. He put everybody out of work. We gave it back, but I'll tell you what. We're going to have a victory on November 3rd, the likes of which you've never seen. Now we're counting on the federal court system to make it so that we can actually have an evening where we know who wins, OK, not where the votes are going to be counted a week later, two weeks later. But in just three and a half years under my administration, we've secured America's borders, rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S. military. Think of that. And I shouldn't say this -- and the fake news keeps going, ""Oh, he's giving away classified information."" No, I'm not. We are building and we have built weapons, the likes of which this world has never seen before. And I said that a week ago and it was a headline in one of these fake newspapers where he's giving away confidential information, these people are crazy. No, no. I'm just telling you that President Putin and President Xi of China, Russia, China, North Korea, everybody, they are so envious of what we're doing. They can't even believe it. If they know they perhaps don't know. You know under Obama, they knew immediately OK. Under us -- but we have -- We are building weapons all made in the USA, the likes of which no country has ever seen before and hope to God we never have to use them, that's the key. I don't ever want to use them. Remember I was supposed to be a guy that was going to get us into a war in the first week. Remember that? Where's the war? We're taking him out of Afghanistan, we're almost finished with that. We're going along well there. We're taking them out of Syria other than I left some behind for the oil, we kept the oil. Is it OK that we kept the oil? Is it OK, we kept the oil. Let's go back to my poll. Ready? So we're putting -- I think it should be a woman because I actually like women much more than I like men, I have to say. No, I do. I do I like women more. So I have to make a decision to fill the seat. As we say, we should have a new campaign. Let's make a T-shirt, fill the seat, OK. Why? My people are so good. Tomorrow, it'll be all over the place. Fill the seat. That's a good idea.  That's a good -- That's a good idea. Fill the seat. OK, what's so good, tomorrow you'll see them all over the place: fill the seat. I don't know how the hell they do it, but they get it done fast. Remember I said where's Hunter? Where's Hunter? The next day it was like one of the biggest selling T-shirts. Where is Hunter? What the hell ever happened? He took the money and he ran, I think, Where's Hunter? He took the money, he went to China. He took 1.5 billion. He had no experience, he didn't have a job until this guy became vice president. Then he went to China, got $1.5 billion. I asked the head of a great company Blackstone, one of the biggest in the world. I said, ""Steve, let me ask you a question. Is that possible?"", ""No, never, never done. China doesn't do that."", ""Well, how did a guy with no experience do this?"" He said, ""Very simple. His father's vice president."" Is that what you want? And then -- and then Ukraine, $183,000 a month and a $3 million upfront payment for him and his friends. Think of this, with no experience and no job -- And they said, ""Do you know energy?"" it's an energy company that paid it. Do you know energy? ""No, I don't I've -- No, not familiar with the subject."" Right. Our great congressman, right? How the hell did this happen? I think it'll be brought up in the debate, I think. Where's Hunter? Where is Hunter? You know where Hunter is? He's, probably on the Riviera having a very good time. He's given some great energy advice, he's learning, he's taking a night class on energy for 180 billion. Where's Hunter. Corrupt. Remember Joe with the prosecutor? $1 billion, I'm not giving it to him until they get those prosecutors away from my son or whatever the hell he said that crazy company over in Ukraine. $1 billion, I'm not giving it, you get them out. And guess what? They got him out. He's your billion dollars. Now that's called quid pro quo, right? That's the real deal. With us, there was not -- They made it up. Remember when Schiff made the phony speech? Eight times, he said the same thing, except that's not what happened. Fortunately, we had those wonderful people that write every perfect word, every word, oh, I'm glad we had them because we're dealing with a bunch of thieving, bad people. So, women and men, ready? Would you rather have a woman on the Supreme Court, or would you rather have a man? Ready, a woman or a man? So would you rather have me choose this very scientific poll? Actually, it's a lot more accurate than these polls that interview, like 97 people have been interviewed, then you know they judge a million dollars and they probably don't interview the people they sit behind that desk and just -- Would you rather have a woman on the Supreme Court -- Yes? Woman, yes? Thom Tillis says yes. So would you rather have a word or would you rather have a man on the Supreme Court? What's going on? Let's give him one more quick chance. This is a free poll. This fall -- and this is a lot of peo -- this is tens of thousands of people. It's a lot of people. You know the fake news will say, ""He had a smattering of people."" You know there was a -- If Bernie Sanders had a crowd, ""Oh, he had a massive crowd. It was so big."" With me, my crowds are five times bigger than Bernie's and they'll say, here's a smattering of people.  There were a bit of an airport that nobody ever heard of, right? Here we are, thousands. If they -- if those people -- come on, bring them over, what the hell. At this point, might as well let them come on over, come on over. You got thousands of people behind these people. I would imagine the sightlines aren't too good. You have stands in front. OK, so one more time. Who'd rather have a man on the Supreme Court? Well, you -- you're -- the man it's -- Who would rather have a woman on the Supreme? Now, tomorrow, like fake news CNN, he was playing games with the United States. It is a terrible thing he's done. No, I'm just taking a poll, please. And by the way, that's a very accurate focus cause that's the way I feel. It will be a woman, a very talented, very brilliant woman. We haven't chosen yet, but we have numerous women on the list. I built this incredible list of brilliant people and we're asking for Biden's list, he can't give it. You know why? Because if he ever gave a list, he'd either put somebody in the left middle, which would be OK, you could get votes or put what? Somebody which is what he's going to choose so far left. Now, if he did the left middle, he loses his entire left coast, right? And if he loses the left coast, that's the end of his election. And last time, remember how many people I got from Bernie because of trade, a lot of the Bernie people vote for us, because Bernie's right about one thing, trade. But Bernie took a bad defeat, didn't he? It was a bad loss. He's one of the most gracious losers I've ever seen. He is. All Elizabeth Warren, Pocahontas, had to do is leave. If she left before Super Tuesday, Bernie would have won every one of those states, but they split up that vote. That's too bad. But we have Sleepy Joe, we'll see how that works out. I think it's working out pretty good. You know we were winning so much, we didn't even have -- We could have called off the election, we were winning by so much and then the plague came in from China and in many ways, I had to go back to work, but I had to go back to work on this one to, and now we're going up and up, and up, and we're winning, and we're winning all over the place. Because I happen to think, I just say what I want. And you know they make up a lot of false stories. They will make up a lie, like what I said about military. Can you imagine? No animal would say that. They make it up and then they put it in ads. So once they did that, the only good thing is I can say, I said, ""Now I can say anything."" He is the worst candidate, the dumbest of all candidates, but he was dumb in primetime as told to me by a senator from long ago, said, ""Who is the dumbest in the Senate? Who is the smartest in the Senate?"" The smartest is, I won't, tell you, but the dumbest is Joe. I said, ""Who's Joe?"" he said, ""Joe Biden."" That was 25 years ago, that was in primetime. He is the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics. If I lose to him, I don't know what I'm going to do. I will never speak to you again, you'll never see me again. No, how do you lose? He is honestly --  I go up and these guys are grilling me all the time. Stephanopoulos, grill, grill. It's OK, it's all right. It's OK. I think it came out very well. What's always -- it comes out well. You have to be able to answer. They're -- they're very weak compared to some of the foreign people that we deal with from foreign countries, that leaders of foreign countries. But I say, ""He's always using a teleprompter."" I don't care if he uses a teleprompter. You know what bothers me? That means the fake news is giving him the questions. Because they're giving him. So that's what really -- They never gave me the questions. If I ever said, I want -- In fact, I'm going to say it now, ""I want, from now on, you to give me the questions before you ask me."" and I'm going to read the questions off the teleprompter and the questions are so easy. Did you see Anderson Cooper? He's a nice guy. He's interviewed me over the years a lot, but he's a tough interviewer. Did you see those softballs? What do you think? ""Donald Trump is a very bad human being. Do you agree with that? "",""Yes, I do, Anderson."" No, I've never seen softballs and actually they're getting hit by it, they're getting hit by it. It's just a terrible thing. I mean, you know this is a guy, I used to call him 1% Joe because he ran numerous times that he could only get 1%. In fact, he actually had 1% with an arrow pointing left. That means less number. Now he's shot, he's like got half of his head left, and he's out -- think of it. He's totally shot and he ends up getting the nomination. He couldn't get it in primetime. What the hell is going on with the world today? What's going on? What's going on with the world, Mark Meadows. Unbelievable. Unbelievable, Meadows. Oh, boy. He's a smart guy. Meadows. Great, great guy. North Carolina, in just three and a half years, we obliterated the ISIS caliphate. Remember when I had it down to 99%? They said, ""You got to finish it."" I said, ""Let somebody else finish it."" And where do we finish it? We fixed our disastrous trade deals which we have. China is now paying us billions and billions of dollars, but you know I view it differently now. I view China much differently now after the plague came in, I view it differently. And we brought your jobs back home to North Carolina and our country. In three years of President Trump, real median household income rose by almost $7,000. Now, think of that. Three years, three years, right? Achieving the highest median income in the history of our country. This is in three years, under 16 years of Presidents Barack Hussein Obama. Ladies and gentlemen, it's President Barack Hussein Obama or is Rush Limbaugh, the great [Inaudible. How great is Rush? Do we love Rush? As Rush Limbaugh would say, Barack Hussein Obama, right? You ever hear Rush? Barack Hussein Obama. Rush is great. he's doing well too. He's great, he's a tough guy. We love Rush. We love you Rush. He watches every one of these rallies. You know, he supported me when I came down with our great first lady. I came down the escalator. I made a speech. I didn't even have a speechwriter. I had to wig it. The winging speech is the best ones like last night. But Rush said, ""I like that guy. I never heard that before. I never heard we're going to build the wall. We're gonna have secure borders. We're gonna make new trade deals, that are like sane. We're going to do all the things. We're going to rebuild our military. We can have a strong country again."" We did so many things and Rush heard this. I didn't know Rush, I mean, maybe I met him once, twice for two seconds, and he became an instant fan of Trump and he was for a long time before I even got to know him and he's been so important. You know, he's the king. 39 million listeners, there's nobody like him. Try sitting down for what is it three hours and talking, just talking with everyone, like 39 million people often. Try sitting -- We love Rush. I love Rush too, but listen, try sitting down with a radio show with millions and millions of people listening and talk for three hours without phone calls. You know phone calls are easy, ""Hey, what do you think of this? What do you --"" just talk. Talk. And everybody finds it fascinating, and it is fascinating. I wish I had time to listen more often, it's a little tough as president, but everybody finds it fascinating and we gave Rush because he's such an important person and done such an incredible job. The Presidential Medal of Freedom in Congress, and Katherine, his wife is great. What a couple. What a great -- But Rush has been unbelievable. He's so on our side and he was from literally day one, right from the beginning. And we don't have to mention Sean and Laura, and so many others. We don't have to mention Lou, the great Lou Dobbs, right? I mean, Lou Dobbs had -- You know, Lou started years ago, and he liked us from the beginning, said, ""Donald Trump is gonna be a very good president."" OK, that was the first , then he went, ""Donald Trump, yeah, Donald Trump, I love Donald Trump, but he's the best since Ronald Reagan."" then he went, ""Donald Trump is an even better president than Ronald Reagan."" so that was about a year and a half ago. Then the great Lou Dobbs said, ""Donald Trump may be the greatest of all time, greatest of all time."" and then somebody said, ""Can I ask you Lou, when you say the greatest, does that include Abraham Lincoln and George Washington?"" he said, ""Absolutely. He's now the greatest of all time."" so we love Lou Dobbs. Lou Dobbs is great, go out and buy his book. His book is great. But we have great support. We have great support. Tucker has been very good lately, I have to tell you. Tucker. Tucker has been very good. Tucker Carlson. He's come a long way. He's actually, you know, the whole thing with the faking around with our whole history, he's very strong at that. We took care of that very powerfully, very powerfully. We signed an executive order, we fired a lot of people that were talking about cancel, culture, and a lot of fake stuff, that we're getting paid a lot of money, that we're here for a long time. Under 16 years of Presidents Obama and Bush, the median income only rose $2,900. Now, think of that. So three years, it went up 7,000; 16 years, it went up less than 3,000. I'd say that's a big difference, and that's not including energy, because look what you're paying for gasoline now, right. Remember those days. Remember those days are $5. You said, ""Let's get rid of that big truck. Let's get -- "" Now, you're buying bigger trucks than they ever thought possible. Because you know why? Because gasoline is so damn cheap, right. Remember the $5 days? Now, you're below $2 a lot, right? Below two. I mean, you're seeing numbers that nobody believes, it's all good stuff. And we're energy independent, so many things have happened. If you add four or $5,000, so you're talking about by $11,000, you got to add the energy. I said to my people, ""Put the energy in."", ""Well, I don't know if it's right."" I said, ""Do me a favor, just put it in. OK?"" In my first three years, we lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any president in American history. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world, and now we're doing it again and we're doing it very rapidly. This is a super V. You know they said, ""Oh, I don't know. V is going to be very hard."" No, this is a super V. We will deliver a safe and effective vaccine this year, it's already in very good shape, very, very good shape, in a matter of weeks. We will end the pandemic from China. We will end our -- our plague from China. Next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of our country, it's heading that way. You see it. When you take a look, automobile manufacturing, housing, retailing, they're all setting records, they're through the roof. Hard to believe, actually. During the rounding the corner, when I say rounding the corner, they go crazy. They want to keep it going as long as possible. If you say anything positive, they say, ""He is not telling the truth to the American public."" I am actually telling the truth. You know these people, they talked about -- because they said, ""Well, Winston Churchill was a great leader."" they said the other night, ""You said Winston Churchill was a great leader."" but he did lie because there is this guy Woodward, right, he writes a book. He's had it. He's, in other words, shot. I compare him, sort of, to Biden, he's sharper than Biden and I have to say that, but he's shot, he's tired, he's exhausted. I never saw a guy be able to do so much television. Try doing a book on somebody else, see how much television time, they'll give you like none. But they said the other night, and it was amazing, Winston Churchill. They said, ""He didn't lie to the people of the Britain. He didn't lie."" I said, ""Well, let me ask you this, you know, he stood on buildings when the Nazis, Hitler, were bombing London and he was pretty brave because he may have been a little drinking, but he was known for that, right? He's got a right to. . He stood in the buildings in London as they were bombing London and made speeches and made statements and had everything and it sometimes have press conferences and the fake news wouldn't show up. He was standing there, nobody was in front of him, but he would stand there and he would say, ""You are safe. You are safe. Everything is OK. You are safe."" Well, that's a lie, I guess, right? So I said, ""Oh, I'd never thought of it that way. I guess he lied."" No, he's a great leader, and he was leading, and he was a great, great prime minister. He did a fantastic job. Not lying. No. We love our country, we want to lead our country and we can't let a thing like this. This is a horrible, horrible thing that happened. To the world it happened, should have been stopped in China. They stopped it from going into the rest of China should have been stopped in China. To defeat the China virus, we launched the largest industrial mobilization since World War II. Somebody said, ""What grade would you give yourself?"" I said, ""A-plus."" but I would give myself a D, I would say, I would give myself and my whole group because Mike Pence is great. Mike Pence really was -- he worked so hard. And it's unfair, he worked so hard, the ventilators, the vaccines, the therapeutics, now we have. Look at what's happening when somebody gets very sick. Look how we bring them back so often compared to what it was originally. I mean, the work that's been done. Now, wait 'til you see what happens over the next few weeks with what's going on. But the Democrats don't want the vaccine, they don't want to -- You know that first, they wanted the vaccine because they didn't think it could happen. Now that we have it they go on like, ""Well, we don't want it."" it's the craziest thing. Think of it. You want to get a vaccine and they're willing to hurt people. Let people die for political reasons. Think of it. I think it's -- I think, honestly, I think it's a disgrace. But we surged rapid testing kits. We have more testing than any all other, I mean, practically everybody. You look at -- No.2 is India, they have 1.5 billion people. We are up 50 million tests more than India. In fact, we're about to crack 100 million tests, and when you test then you have -- Does this make sense? Then you have cases. So we do all this testing and I come home and I turn on NBC News. It is so -- it is so bad. I think NBC, that's not only MSDNC, I think NBC with Lester Holt is another beauty. Hi, Lester. How do you feel being in second place, Lester? He surged from first place to second place. But NBC News is so -- I mean, it's just terrible. You know they used free airwaves and then they give you fake news, right? Free airwaves. They should pay a lot of money for this. This is not right. NBC, it's owned by a company called Concast, C-O-N, Concast. They're con, they're conmen. It's a disgrace. You know, they spent fortunes on public relations and then I get up and make a speech like this with television blazing all over the world, I guess. Yep, the world, it's all over the world. And I say Concast and immediately there goes their public -- How's your public relations doing NBC? Not too good. But they just they don't tell the truth. Our country would be so much better off if we had honest media,"
"There's a lot of people. That's right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's a big group of people. And this is on fast notice too. Thank you.  Well, I just want to say hello, Minnesota. We love you, Minnesota. You're great. Great, great place. We're going to win Minnesota. We're going to win Minnesota because they did nothing for Minnesota except close up that beautiful iron ore territory. They closed it up with a pen. Do you remember that one day you didn't have your jobs? Then I came along and I opened it up. So that's pretty good. But I'm thrilled to be here with the beautiful, great, hardworking people of this incredible state. You're really hardworking, American patriots, that's what you are. And a lot of people haven't been treated right until I came along and we've done a lot of work and a lot of good work and you had your best year ever last year. The state had the best year you ever had. Forty-six days from now, we're going to win Minnesota and we're going to win four more years in the White House. One of the most vital issues in this election is the subject of refugees. You know it. You know it, perhaps better than almost anybody. Lots of luck. You're having a good time with your fa -- Geez, that's good. We want to have Omar. Yeah, he said, Omar. That's a beauty. How the hell did she win the election? How did she win? It's unbelievable. Every family in Minnesota needs to know about Sleepy Joe Biden's extreme plan to flood your state with an influx of refugees from Somalia, from other places, all over the planet. That's what's happened. And you like Omar a lot, don't you, huh? Biden has promised a 700% increase in the manifesto with Bernie, right? A 700% increase in the importation of refugees from the most dangerous places in the world, including Yemen, Syria, and Somalia. Congratulations, Minnesota. A 700% increase. Good luck, Minnesota, enjoy yourselves because if I'm not here, if I don't win, I don't know where I'm going to be, but maybe I'll come over to see Mike. I'll come and see Mike. Your state will be overrun and destroyed of Biden and the radical left win. That's what's going to happen. I've been watching it for years. They haven't treated you right. They have not treated Minnesota right.  Thank you. I tell you, these hangers are great. Remember this: it's a friendly protest. Please remember. This is not a rally. You're not allowed to have political rallies of any kind. You're not allowed to go to church. You're not allowed to do anything. The only thing you're allowed to do is run wild through the streets, burn down storefronts, blow up stores, and kill people because that's considered a protest, then that they allow you to have. You don't have to wear masks at protests. So I said, ""You know, we can't have a rally."" The most we can have is 10 people, but why don't we just call it a protest because this is a protest. It's a protest against stupidity. And speaking about stupidity, Sleepy Joe will turn Minnesota into a refugee camp. Think of it, 700% increase. So you're not happy now? Look at that guy over there, he's not too thrilled when he hears this. 700% increase is what they have in the manifesto. Now, maybe they don't honor it, but I would say that goes substantially higher than that number. Biden will overwhelm your children's schools, overcrowd their classrooms, and inundate your hospitals, that's what'll happen. Biden has even pledged to terminate our travel ban jihadist regions, jihadist regions. They've already been doing that. Do you ? Opening the floodgates to radical Islamic terrorists. My administration's keeping terrorists, extremists, and criminals the hell out of our country. We don't want them. We don't want them. We've got enough of them, we've got enough of them. Just today, we deported, as you know very well, dozens of Somali nationals charged or convicted with very grave crimes, including rape, assault, robbery, terrorism, and murder of course. These hardened criminals are back in their country where they can do all the complaining they want, and your children are much safer as a result. Thank you, President Trump, thank you. If it were up to Biden, then it's not, it's the people that surround him, they are seriously radical-left Democrats and they're very dangerous and the offenders are very dangerous and they'd be running all over your state. Only by voting for me, are you going to save, I hate to say this, I did it with your iron ore, I did it with some other things, and I'll do it for you again, I'll do it for you again. But if you vote for me, I'm the difference and I'm the wall. You know the wall that we're building on the southern border? I'm your wall. Between the American dream and chaos, Joe Biden is wholly owned and controlled by the left-wing mob. He has no clue where he is. This is not a sharp guy. Years ago, I said to a certain Senator who was very friendly with a Democrat, ""Who's the dumbest Senator? Who's the smartest ever?"" He gave me a name for the smartest. I said, ""Who's the dumbest?"", ""Oh, Joe Biden. You didn't know that?"" That was 25 years ago. That was in primetime. This is no longer primetime for Sleepy Joe. And they do disinformation. They make things up and then make commercials, they make things up. I've never seen anything like it. Everything they make up. First of all, I'm the one protecting you Social Security. They say Trump -- Remember four years ago, they used to say, ""Oh, Trump will get rid of Soc --"" I have protected you Social Security, they're going to destroy your Social Security. Another thing, Big Ten football, did I do a good job? Your team better do well. You're on the spot. They'd better do well. Are they going to do well this year? I think so, right? But I brought it back, but I saw that -- You know why I did it actually? It sort of energized me. Sleepy Joe did an ad that I was against football, that I was against Big Ten football. Give me a break. I was against it. When I saw the ad I said, ""What's the problem with 10 -- Big Ten football?"" They said, ""They're not going to open."", ""Why?"" and they say, you know, some stupid reason. I said These are strong, young people. They're going to do great, let's get going."" I called the commission, Kevin, good guy, and we sort of started something and we got it rolling. We had big opposition from a few of the Democrats states and governors, you know, but we rolled over the opposition and you have Big Ten football. Congratulations. Congratulations. When the far-left riders rampage across Minneapolis and they rampage across your state -- How about your police department? Let's just run for your lives. And it's not their fault. They were told to do that. You have a good police department, you have good police, but they're not allowed to do their job. No, they're not allowed to do their job. Remember that? They were told to leave the precinct. Leave it. And then they knock the hell out of that precinct, didn't they, huh? You had a great mayor, great mayor, brilliant, really. It's a real powerhouse. Remember. Did you ever hear of a man Fiorello LaGuardia? Did you ever -- I don't think that happened with him. New York, I don't think it happened with Rudy Giuliani, did it, huh? What a great job Rudy did. You realize -- You know, Rudy's just now really being appreciated, people forgot how good he was as a mayor. He was a great mayor. Joe Biden called the peaceful protesters, he said, these are peaceful protesters as opposed to sending in the National Guard. They didn't want the National Guard. Joe Biden said, ""You shouldn't send the National Guard."" And this went on day after day after day. I pushed and I got it approved. The National Guard went in, it ended within, what you say, half hour? It was about a half an hour. You wouldn't have Minneapolis. You better remember this when you go and vote and your voting starts . You'd be saying, do you remember when we had a city called Minneapolis? Do you remember? Used to be over there. It's all ashes now. That place was coming down. That was -- You didn't have anything. But wasn't that a beautiful sight? Look, all of a sudden, you saw one guy in a black uniform then another, then another on the street. Remember that street loaded up with CNN reporters? Remember, Ali Velshi? Shaved head, nice hair, shaved head. Some people actually do that, shave the head, just give it up. Can't go. Now we polled it, I'd go down about 22 points. We polled it. They want to poll everything nowadays. I don't believe in polls, they poll everything. But Ali Velshi, I don't know anything about the guy, but I -- You know, I know he was standing there, ""This is really quite a good scene. It's a friendly protest. Everyone's acting -- "" and behind him, the entire city was burning. It was like block, it's one of the great pictures of all time. The entire city was burning out. That was your city. And it's a shame it took so long, but the governor finally did it, at least, you know. And if you take a look at Portland, the governor can't quite do it. She can't get there, I speak to her all the time. ""Come on, governor, I can straighten out Portland. Give me less an hour. Just let us have it for -- "" You know because we have to get -- the state has to ask for it. They have to request. It's a shame, it's such a shame. But in your case, we went, and all of a sudden it was really -- that was gonna be a bad night too, right? Remember that? About seven o'clock, Tennessee, this guy walk out with about a $250,000 outfit on. That's because it had more computers and this and that, got the tear gas to you, he's got a whole deal, pepper spray, got everything. The finest outfit you can buy. Believe me, we just paid for him and it's very expensive. So we see one, the helmet -- How about the helmet with the goggles? And you can see at night you can see a day, you can see whenever the hell you want. So it is one, I said, ""Oh, there's only one guy."" then you see another three, then four, then you see another 10. They were just getting out of the buses coming from very friendly territory. And then you have a line and they were very tight together, there was no social distancing at all, which we're gonna have to speak to them about. No, they were touching. It's true. They were touching, right? So we had the first line, then you had the second line, then you had the third line, then you , and then they said march. I remember this guy well, gee, he got hit on the knee with a canister of tear gas and he went down. He kneeled, he was down, ""My knee, my knee."" nobody cared. These guys didn't care, they moved him aside and they just walked right through. It was like it was the most beautiful thing. No, because after we take all that crap for weeks and weeks, they would take this crap and then you finally see men get up there and go right through. Wasn't it really a beautiful sight. Right? For law and order, law and order. Portland would be easier because it's more confined, we just go being and that would be it. But -- but you know, so they had four or five lines then they had lines of different -- everybody at the same thing. Did they ever even move one step back? I don't think so right? It was just a slow walk right forward, then they just started walking faster, faster, faster, put a lot of guys in jail, Tom, right? Put a lot of guys -- great Congressman, by the way, put a lot of guys in jail. Great. Not good, great. They put a lot of guys in jail that night, Tom, and that was the end of it. I don't think he had any problem after that. If you had any flare-ups, we'll send them in again, but that's all you do. These are Democrat-run disasters. Look at Chicago, look at Portland, look at you with Minneapolis. These are disasters. By the way, they're still trying to get rid of your police force in Minnea -- That's what I heard. See? They never learn. They never learn. They don't. Look at the number. We got a lot of people here. It's a lot of people. I actually like this, you know, we have the arenas, we've always filled them up, it's been great, and the arenas are good but usually you have to travel like 45 minutes. This thing, you have a hanger, the plane becomes your -- your backstop, right, it's like your curtain. You know, it's a curtain, you get a free curtain. We're outside, which actually makes people happy and it even makes the people that sometimes not everybody here likes happy because outside is better. You know, it's better, and we're rounding the turn on COVID, by the way, our vaccines are coming. A lot of things are coming. We're rounding the turn. We've done a great job. We've done a phenomenal job. We don't get credit for that, but we'll discuss that in a minute. But when you look at it -- when you look at it, our country is amazing. It's an amazing country. We love this country and we're not going to let -- we're not going to let radical-left socialist, slash communists, take over our country. You know, they use the word socialists, and socialists are great, but communists are a hell of a lot worse and that's where it would be headed. And we're standing in the way of them, this group of people. But you have a lot of groups of people just like this, every place we go. Last night, you know where we were, you saw that. It was all over the place, right? That's a big state, that's a great state. And then I see the fake polls, you know. They -- I just saw a poll here in Minnesota, I'm down 9, I don't think so. I mean, I just don't think so. No, they said. I don't think so. Right? I don't think so. It's a -- It's a craziest thing I've ever seen. It's the craziest thing I've seen.  President Trump is down 9 in Minnesota. No, I just saw it in the plane. See the plane, the good thing about these beautiful Air Force One, right, that's the smaller version of Air Force One. I think you had a little bit short runway, so they take the smaller to save about $12. No, they took a smaller one. But the great thing about those beautiful planes, they have more televisions than any plane in history. We have televisions in the closet, on the ceilings, on the floors. I've never seen them -- We have them all over the place. And I'm just coming out and they said, ""There he is."" and they said it's a spattering of people, they call it a spattering. They always do that. And yet Biden with the circles, right, the little cir -- It's got like four people in a circle. You know why he does the circles? Because he can draw a crowd. So they put a circle like you suppose -- he's trying to be legitimate, but you know he's going to go by the science. He always has to say he doesn't know what the word science is. So they have these like four or five circles, they put people. That way, he doesn't have to be embarrassed when he goes to a high school gymnasium, and he has like 40, 50 people. They had one not so long ago, and you saw this, he couldn't draw a crowd. It was a big thing, it was his opening or something, couldn't draw a crowd, so they made it a round table. So he went in, they only had like 32 people. They said, ""This is very embarrassing."" one of his people. And that's just what they do. They're good. Some of the people surrounding him, they'll say anything and do anything. They said, ""Let's not make it a speech, there's nobody here. Let's make it a roundtable. So these people are sitting at the table, they had no idea. Most of them didn't know anything about politics. They didn't even know why they were there and now they're sitting on a roundtable and they're on television. But that's what it is. But they say, ""We had a spattering of people."" Yes, spattering of about what? 15,000 people in about two-days' notice. And this doesn't include the 10,000 people, Mike, that they turned away. I hate that they turn them away. You know, you'd think with an airport, you wouldn't have to turn anybody away, but they have a certain amount and then sometimes you have Democrats running an airport and they don't like all these people here, that's true, they don't like. But if it were up to Biden, your state would be in ruins. And you know, just take a look at what they've done and I'm going to hit it hard. You know, they make phony commercials about me and it gives me the right, like how about the worst of all, worst I've ever seen: standing on a grave of a fallen soldier. And then they had some guy -- a source said, there's no source, the source doesn't exist, they make it up, and then they take it, it's called disinformation. You're not supposed to do that. And I'm not even sure if he knows, he's too weak to understand, and he's too weak to control his people. But it allows me to say whatever I want about this guy. And the truth is he's not fit to be your President. He's not mentally fit. If Biden's elected, extremists, like Representative, Ilhan Omar -- Whatever happened to her? You had a great writer who has just made a living off writing about her and she's done so many criminal acts. Isn't it damn disgraceful that she gets away with it? And I have to say to myself, I say, ""How the hell does she get away with that?"" And if we do want to -- Look at General Flynn, he didn't even lie. They said he didn't lie, right? And he's gone through hell, he's gone through hell. This guy wrote page after page of criminal acts. Well, let's see what happens, who the hell knows. But between her -- and how about AOC, AOC, AOC is running a campaign against the guy that was supposed to be speaker of the house, right? Joe Crowley, I knew him a little bit. I asked him once, I said, ""Are you campaigning against this maniac?"" He said, ""No, she's just a young girl, no problem."" I called him on election night. Nah, I was going to say, ""How did that work out, Joe?"", that didn't work it. This guy was -- he was going to speak as speaker of the house. She's got a certain talent, but you know, all of a sudden she had no money, nothing, and all of a sudden she had $2 million. And she spent the $2 million all over the place, her and a boyfriend. Whatever happened to her? Can you imagine if I do that? She spent the $2 million. You do look at that. She spent the $2 million and big story, but that was it. That's one quick story. Oh, man. They -- probably the guy who wrote the story lost his job at the New York Times, right? He's now unemployed. But this is a big story. She spent $2 million on bullshit, OK. If a Republican did that, they'd be in jail. You know that. It's a different standard and it's a disgrace. And our guys better get on the ball. Look, let me tell you, how about yesterday they were talking about Russia, Russia, Russia again. Here we go with Russia. There's never been anybody so tough on Russia with the sanctions. Remember Obama would send pillows, I sen tank busters, right, to Ukraine. I'm the one that exposed the pipeline with Germany. Germany pays them billions and billions of dollars and then we're supposed to protect Germany from Russia. So how does that work? How does that work? You're spending billions of dollars for energy to Russia. It's all OK, I'm the one that exposed it. What I've done -- Hey, they don't want me to go. But if you look, they don't want me to win. Russia doesn't want. Maybe North Korea does because I actually have a very good relationship with him, and you know, speaking of North Korea -- and you know it's OK to have relay -- you don't have to go to wars. We don't have to lose our great soldiers. We don't have to. It's good. If I got along with Putin, somebody said, ""He gets along well with Putin."" I'm saying to myself, ""But isn't that sort of a good thing?"" Is that bad? ""He gets along with Putin. That's a bad thing."" But you know, you saw the head of the FBI yesterday starting, Russia, Russia's looking at our election, Russia. Here we go again. Russia, Russia, Russia. I said What about China? What about North Korea? What about Iran? What about -- They don't mention anybody else. The narrative seems to be Russia. Millions of phone calls made not one to Russia, millions of phone calls received not one to Russia, and he goes Russia, Russia. Then they ask about NTFA. What do you think about NTFA? Well, it's an ideology. I said, ""No, it's not idea -- It's a bunch of thugs and anarchists that are being funded by somebody and find out who the somebody is."" It's unbelievable. Unbelievable when you -- when you look at this stuff. But seriously take a look at the AOC. I thought AOC plus three. You know her three people that she tells what to do, and $2 million, dresses, rent, other things. You're not supposed to do that. Mr. Congressman, are you allowed to do that, sir? You don't buy dresses, do you? If he does, that's the end of his career, right. No, but it's terrible, right, Don. It's terrible. I will prosecut him. I mean, yeah, why not? I don't -- I don't understand it. I'll tell you what. You know, one friend of mine, very sophisticated guy, very successful guy called me up, he says, ""You know, from the day you came down the escalator with our great first lady -- future first lady, said, ""From that day, the people loved her."" She gave a great speech at the Republican National Convention at the White House, she gave a great speech. But said, ""From the day you came down the escalator with the first lady, from this single day, you've been under investigation. You've been under investigation by sleaze bags."" people that now we caught cleaned up their phones, you're not allowed to do that, right, Mr. Congressman, my great hockey player, you're the greatest, right. But you're not allowed to do that. You know, we want their phones, ""Oh, here they are. Oh, by the way they happened to be totally deleted."" like Hillary with the 33,000 emails, she deleted it. I think they should look at that. Now, even if they don't find them and I do believe they're in the State Department. I do believe they're in the FBI. I do believe they're in the FBI, but even if you forget about it, forget them, you know she said she had 33,000 e-mails and the emails were for her yoga lessons. Look. You know, she's, not big into yoga, I can tell. If she is, she's not getting her money's worth. Her yoga lessons and her daughter's wedding, right? So it's about the wedding and the yoga lessons. So I said, ""OK, let's give her five or six each. What do you think, Mike? Five or six each. Five for the wedding, make it 30, make it 100, make it 1,000, 1,000 for the wedding and for the yoga, let's give her 200. OK. What about all those thousands and thousands of emails probably classified. So Congress. Congress. So forget it, but let's assume they're gone because she deleted them and then she acid washed them, and then she hit her phones with a hammer. I get rid of phones. I've never hit them with a hammer, not even as President. I see you throw the phone away. No, no I've never had a phone. Has anybody ever gotten rid of your phone and take a hammer and wiped the hell out of it? I don't think so. So, she gets a subpoena from the U.S. Congress, not in a lawsuit against some guy that hates you and you're fighting and you're fighting or something, by the way, you do that, you got problems in court, big problems, but she gets a subpoena from Congress. U.S. subpoena, the most important subpoena you can get. They get the subpoena and after she gets the subpoena, by a few days, everything is deleted. Her phones are busted up and cleaned and wiped and everything's gone, and nothing happens to her. Forget about what was on. No, think of it. How -- how angry it makes me when I see it. Now, how angry -- Could you imagine if I do that, it's a whole different ballgame. Now How angry it makes me when I see it. And you know, we have -- we had a -- an attorney general that didn't have a clue, that was my fault. I was loyal to somebody, endorsed me early. You know why he endorsed me? Because I went to Mobile, Alabama. We had 55,000 people show up at a state and he said, ""I'd like to endorse you"". Then after we won, he said I'd love to be attorney general. I said, ""No, I don't think so."" but after four or five times asking, I'm a loyal person, and I did it. The mistake sometimes you make is because of loyalty, but that's OK, but allowed her to get away with that, is a disgrace. It's a disgrace. Maybe there's something they can do so forget about looking for the emails and they are available and I guarantee they're in the State Department. I guarantee you they're in the State Department that they ought to damn well find them. They're being protected in the State Department. But forget about that. Almost as good, is the fact that you're not allowed to do what she did and her lawyers should pay. Kendall should pay equal consequence, equal consequence, equal. But that's the way it is, and -- but we are making a lot of progress if you see what's going on. You know I said to myself, ""I'm going to stay uninvolved."" I don't have to. Chief law enforcement officer. Can you believe it? But I think it's better if I stay uninvolved and I have stayed uninvolved. And we do have an excellent attorney general, Bill Barr, and I'll be honest, he's a smart guy, I think he's getting tougher and tougher and tougher every day. I think he's not going to put up with this stuff. I don't think. And you know he's got a lot of people that are deep staters, whatever you want to call them. They fight him at every turn. They fight him, fight him, fight him, but he's getting tougher and tougher. I watched over the last three days. I'd say, ""Wow, sort of what we're all waiting for."" Right? But she deletes her emails. AOC gets rid of $2 million, $2 million, gets rid of it, nothing happens, nothing happens, and then she goes around and calls us all like what the hell are we. And she controls Nancy Pelosi. Actually, Nancy Pelosi would love to get rid of her. I think you know because Pelosi -- How about Pelosi? How about that? How about Pelosi? Pelosi goes out and says, ""You know, I think I'll have my hair done."" so she goes out and she goes into this beauty parlor. I told the story in Wisconsin last night. By the way, we had a great crowd in Wisconsin. You know, you have a feeling about places. You know the problem with Minnesota is that, I think, since 1972 this hasn't been won by Republicans, so you know you're a little behind the eight ball when you hear that, right? I mean, I can understand. And Wisconsin, rarely, but I won Wisconsin, unlike Minnesota. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Tom. Thank you. No, unlike Minnesota -- but it's my fault, so I had one speech left it started at 1:00 in the morning I went to Michigan, we won Michigan. That was another one ,great state, we brought back so many auto companies into Michigan. We brought them back. But I had one, they had one, it was already voting day. It was election day because by the time I got there was just schedule had I made that one damn stop to your state. We would'e won Minnesota, I lost, but what? Half a point, half a point. When I get off the plane and they said, he's in Minnesota, he's down nine, the recent poll, down nine. I believe it's a suppression poll. And you know I'm good and I have an instinct about things pretty much. Somebody said, ""Trump has the greatest political instincts of the last 100 years."" One of my enemies said that, and I said, ""No, I don't."" I don't believe I do. And again lousy political instincts, but what am I going to do? Let me just say, they said that, I was very impressed by this statement. In fact, I went to my wife, I said, ""You know they say I have the greatest political instincts in over 100 years."" And I said, ""But I don't believe it. I don't."" I don't want to be Beto. Remember Beto? ""I was born to run for President."" That was the end of his career. Beto O'Rourke, who's in charge of guns. By the way, he's going to take your guns away, you know that, right, Biden, Sleepy Joe. Sleepy Joe's, going to take your guns too. I remember Beto on the cover of a really crummy magazine. I won't mention the name. They had a lot of bad magazines out there. The good news is, most of them are dying, if not all of them, but Beto O'Rourke did the story, and you know he was going to defeat Ted Cruz. He was going to do all these things. Ted beat him, and I helped a lot too. I was with Ted all the way and -- and I think Ted's appreciated it, but I even said I'm putting Ted Cruz is one of the people for the Supreme Court, right. And you know why I did it? You know why I did it? Because I wanted to make sure that I had somebody on the list with about 45 unbelievable people, unbeliever -- The smartest, the best, the absolute creme de la creme, right, the best minds in the country, conservative. They believe in the Constitution. You know little things, little things like that, but I said you know I have to have somebody that we're going to make sure we get approved, and the only one I could think of is Ted because he's going to get 50 Republican votes and he's going to get 50 Democrat votes, he'll do anything to get him out of the Senate. But I joke when I say that to Ted, but I say it all the time, Ted, the only men I know could get 100 votes from the Senate. Every single senator is going to vote for him, but he's a great guy and he's a brilliant guy and he's been great. He's been really great. I kid when I say that. But you know, one of the things we've done that's so good is the Supreme Court. We have two Supreme Court justices. We will have, at the end of my term, approximately 300 federal judges, including court of appeal, right. So anyway, just to finish, there's no way that I'm nine points down. I look at a crowd, so they say instinct, right. So I look at the crowd and whether I have good instinct or not. This is not the crowd of somebody that's going to finish second in the state to a Sleepy Joe. Finish second to a guy that cannot put two sentences together. Now it is an ideology, it doesn't matter. I could put that broken piece of wood right there. I could put that out and it's the same thing as Joe. It's just an ideology. It's just an idea. Now, historically, we have the biggest gap in enthusiasm of any campaign that they've ever polled. You heard that like 36 points, in other words, they've got no enthusiasm for him. I have tremendous enthusiasm as we , but he does have enthusiasm to beat Trump. His only enthusiasm has put anybody in there, right, put anybody in there. He does have enthusiasm to beat Trump, nothing for him, but to beat Trump, OK, but historically, that never wins. When somebody has to rely on winning because of somebody as opposed to winning, because people love you, people respect you -- And Sean Hannity did something the other night. He said, ""Would you have this man -- If you owned a McDonald's hamburger stand in a reasonably busy area, would you have Joe Biden running that stand?"" The answer's, no, he doesn't have the energy. He doesn't. So he can't run the country, no seriously. I thought it was good, I never thought of it. You wouldn't have him running your business, you wouldn't have him running a McDonald's, I have to say, or a Wendy's. I have a friend who owns Wendy's. He always gets it -- Ken you ever mentioned Wendy's, OK, Wendy's, but you know you wouldn't do it because you couldn't do it and yet he's running for the presidency. You've got no energy. I made a comment that somebody had low energy. That was the end of his political career, but Joe's energy is far lower. He's far lower. No it's -- it's far lower than Jeb. Jeb was on the low side, but Joe is like he's off the scale, right? Joe's got nothing going. Today, Biden delivered remarks, barely, to a union after spending 47 years, giving their jobs to China in foreign countries in exchange for campaign cash. How about his statement? Hey, we talked about AOC being crooked. She's 100% crooked, OK. But we're talking about that. Look at Omar. She came in here did she marry her brother. Where's that writer? That writer -- That writer should be given the Pulitzer Prize. He never will be. He should be, though. You know the amazing thing, all of these writers: New York Times, Washington Post, Russia, Russia, Russia. Trump. Russia, Russia, Russia. I had 19 people, all brilliant, all radical left, all Hillary Clinton people, actually not even a Never-Trumper from Bush, OK, all Hillary Clinton people, mostly almost everyone. They were all Democrats. How about this, you're being investigated by 19 Democrats that are smart people, OK, smart people, so my friend says, ""You know, you are the most honest person in the world."" You've taken three "
"Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That is a beautiful sight right behind me. That's a beautiful sight. Thank you very much. And a very big hello, Wisconsin. We've been very good together. And I'm thrilled to be with thousands of loyal, hardworking, American patriots. Forty-seven days from now we're going to win Wisconsin. And we're going to win four more years in the White House. This is the most important election in the history of our country. I feel that way so strongly, so do you. Joe Biden devoted his entire career to offshoring Wisconsin jobs, outsourcing your factories, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless ridiculous foreign wars, and surrendering your children's future to China. You know what he's been doing? I just see he's up there tonight getting softball questions from Anderson Cooper. They don't ask me questions like that. And the audience isn't quite like this. You see what is on it? They've got cars. They've -- like cars in a parking lot. The weirdest thing I've ever seen. And CNN is going, ""Oh, this is so beautiful."" it's not beautiful, they have cars in a parking lot. What a deal, I'll tell you, what a deal. Biden supported every disastrous, global sell out for half a century including NAFTA, China. You take a look at China's entry into the World Trade Organization and TPP. He supported them all. Biden surrendered your jobs to China, and you know that. I probably wouldn't be here if it weren't for that. It was one of the big things. One of the big reasons I decided to say to my great wife, our First Lady, ""Let's go have some fun. Let's go have some fun."" and she's done a great job and very popular. The family is all over the place, all over the country. But unlike Joe, who let you down, where he never even came back to Milwaukee to apologize or just to pay respects, I came to Wisconsin and I've been here a lot since -- since we started this. A lot. And you've been a tremendous beneficiary of what I've done. And I have to because you've been with me, you've supported me and we've had great victories together, all victories. So I want to thank you. Now, Biden wants to surrender our country to the violent left-wing mob. You see what's happen. If Biden wins, very simple, China wins. If Biden wins, the mob wins. If Biden wins, the rioters, anarchists, arsonists, and flag burners, they win, and we're not into flag burners. We don't like flag burners, I'd like to say pass a law one year in jail. You start burning flags, we put you in jail for years. We should do that. I would have done that, it's a different world, I guess, but it's sort of coming back to the way we have to have it because we're for law and order. They say, ""Don't use that term, it's too tough."" No, everybody wants law and order, minorities want law and order, everybody wants law and order. They have to have it. I'm running for the re-election and a very important re-election to bring jobs and factories back and that's a continuation because I don't know if you know it, the single greatest year Wisconsin has ever had was last year. The second-best year that Wisconsin has ever had was the year before. And guess what the third was, the year before that. And you'll get to have your best year economically, next year, it's all heading in that direction. Despite the pandemic given to us by China. But we want to put the violent criminals behind bars and we have to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China, not to other very terrible forces out there. Because if we win, very simply, America wins, and that's what we want. We want this great country to win. Over the last three and a half years, we've secured America's borders, fix the disastrous trade deals. They have been the worst ever. Not even -- it was not even -- when I looked at these, I studied them and I used to talk about them. They had to be bad. When I started studying, I said, ""Who are the people that made these deals?"" grossly incompetent people. Brought back our manufacturing jobs, rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S. military, and obliterated the ISIS caliphate. We obliterated it. Obama was not able to do it. He was unable to come close. It was just announced that in 2019, before the virus came in from China, we grew median income by a record of $4,400 in just one year, achieving the highest median income in U.S. history. That's in the history of our country. In the first three years, we lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty. The largest poverty reduction of any President in the history of our country. That's not bad. And I didn't even make these numbers up, these are numbers that sound good to me. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. This is the greatest economy in the history of the world. Then the -- then the virus came in, we closed it down, we saved millions and millions of lives, would be a two and a half million, 2 million, 3 million, a number that would not be sustainable, would not be acceptable, a horrible number that shouldn't have been one person that died. It should have been stopped in China. They stopped it for their country, but it came out to us, to Europe, to the rest of the world, 188 countries. We will deliver a safe and effective vaccine before the end of the year and it could be very, very soon, you've been seeing what's going. Could be very, very soon. Could be -- It's amazing how all of a sudden they hate the vaccine. When they thought it couldn't be done they said, ""Well, he can't -- He's got to get a vaccine."" and then all of a sudden, they're looking like it's going to be very close. We're doing great, we're doing great with vaccines and therapeutics from the severe -- all sorts of other things that are bringing the rates down, like, at numbers that nobody can believe. But we have three vaccines right now. They're in the final stage, clinical trials. We worked it for the FDA where they approved it fast. They worked very fast, very quick, at levels that nobody else could have ever achieved. No other administration, certainly the last one because the last one was grossly incompetent. In fact, that's why I'm here. Because if it was good, I wouldn't have run. If they did their job, I wouldn't have run. I was very happy in my other life. I was very happy, but I'm very happy in this life, more happy, because nobody has produced in three and a half years, the first three and a half years, nobody has done what we have been able to do. Nobody. So we'll defeat the virus and next year we'll be, truly, I think from an economic standpoint and from other standpoints, maybe the best year of all. Hard to believe, we're going so fast. The numbers have been incredible. We've had employment numbers, the best ever. We've had retail sales numbers, the best ever. You see them all, they come out every day and our stock market is, for the most part of it, too high. And if people have 401(k)s, if you want to have your 401(k) go down, like two depression levels, I think you should vote for a Sleepy Joe because he's going to raise your interest. He'll be raising your interest rates. You know, I watch him though, he's denying all this up. You know everything that he said, he's now denying. He said, ""No fracking."" right?, ""There will be no fracking."" during the -- he didn't know what fracking was, but he said there's no fracking. The reason is because everybody else, all of the radical-left candidates up there, they couldn't get too far left, so Joe agreed. Then he gets the nomination. Now they're all angry. You know that Crazy, Bernie, all of the left Democrats, they don't want to vote for him anymore because he made promises and now all of a sudden he forgot that he said no fracking. He said, ""Well, now we can do some fracking."" But you know, remember this: in politics, it's always the thing that they say first, that's what they get to do, no guns, no religion, no energy, no oil. Remember that. Remember. He put Beto in charge of his gun policy, right? Beto, Crazy Beto. Remember when Beto went out? He said, ""I was born for this."" and that's what it all came down. As soon as I heard that, anybody said they were born for this? It doesn't play well, but he's in charge of the Second Amendment and you won't have a Second Amendment. Frankly, you wouldn't have a Second Amendment if I didn't get elected, it would have been obliterated or would have been torn up. Maybe it would have been totally knocked out. But there's tremendous pressure on your Second Amendment, as long as I'm here, you'll always have a Second Amendment. But I -- I want to just say, you know, they do disinformation, they make up a phony story and then they go with it. They make up a totally phony story. It's -- it's called disinformation. And one of the things -- What they did, the worst of all was the soldiers because nobody loves our soldiers like I do. And they made up a phony deal. And that's why I say the gloves are off because, you know, when they do that, that's worse than what I'm going to talk to you about. That's Big Ten, you know, we got it back, right. We got Big Ten. We got the soldier's story about standing over the graves. You know the one I'm talking about, then they do a commercial and I said, ""The good news about that is the gloves are off."" I can now call him grossly incompetent. The man is incompetent. He's been there for 47 years. He didn't do a thing. Now, all of a sudden, in years where he was never considered smart, but now he's really not considered as smart. And now all of a sudden he's going to do what he never did in 47 years. He's going to do this and that and everything that I'm doing, everything that we're doing. But I want to congratulate the Big Ten conference on yesterday's announcement that the fall season will start very soon. Oh, I hope your team does well after all that. I hope that team does well. But I especially want to thank a football legend who is great. Wisconsin's own, Barry Alvarez, he was good. Good. Got to be careful when you do that. You know, a lot of times, you don't like people too much. They'd say, ""Oh, we're not --"" but he's a good man. We worked with him. We worked with the whole group, including the commissioner, did a very very good job, did a very good job. But we call them, and the reason is that they would took an ad, in other words, another one, disinformation. They took an ad saying I was against football. I'm the one that said they shouldn't close. But I said that you know, they close, they close. But then they took an ad saying I'm the one -- I didn't want it. I wanted it closed. So then I said, ""Well, I don't. I want it open."" Let me call up the commissioner, we called up the commissioner and he was great. He said, ""You really think so?"" And bottom line, we worked very hard, lots of calls to lots of different states, lots of people. We dealt with the players, the parents of the players who are really the boss. It's OK, I won't say that. But these are players that have a shot at the NFL. They have a shot at pro football. We want the NFL to proudly stand when they sing our national anthem, right, or their ratings are going to continue to go down like they did last weekend, down 27% because people don't want that. You know what, we have enough politics, right? We have politics here, we have politics all over. In fact, sometimes, I have to turn it off. I'm just -- I can't do it anymore. I can't watch me. It's always -- I can't watch me. I can't watch. But no, we have enough politics. We don't want to watch Now on Sunday. Oh, here we go again with the politics. Let them play football, let them stand and salute or put your hand on your heart and be proud of our country and be proud of our great American flag and then go home to the mansion and have a good time, take a nice sauna, and then if you want, after you recover, you come out, and you go and you do your thing, whatever that thing may be. But people don't want to see it. And the ratings are down, here we go again. You know, I thought we taught them that less than two years ago, didn't we think? I thought we taught that lesson. But Biden would absolutely eradicate your state's economy. I know this state very well. It's one of the reasons I made that great deal with Canada and Mexico. But Canada because they were taking advantage of you so badly on your dairy products. You know you had a 287% tariff on your dairy products with Canada. People don't realize, Canada is one of the toughest negotiators and they treated your state and this country very unfairly until I came along. Very, very unfairly. Did you know that? 287, but I saw some farmers and this was like the straw that broke the camel's back, they had something called specialty milk. Does anybody know what that is? Right, you know. A lot of people -- It's a small little grouping of milk's -- specialty milk, but this was the final straw. And I met some people and Canada finally did it to them like they did it to everybody else and they raised the tariffs massively. That made it impossible. They tried to take over that business too, along with all of the other dairy products where it was just massive and horrible what they did, and that really got me going. It's a little specialty milk, specialty products, a small portion, but you know what, that was it. And we have a great deal The USMCA is a great deal and I'm very honored to have done it. But it was all because of specialty milk and the way you were taken advantage of by Canada. You know they have the wonderful, ""Oh, Canada."" we love to hear the song, right. But let me tell you, they are very tough and they've taken advantage of our country for many, many years and I will tell you this, they're not so happy now, but at least they got a deal. But you're happy and it's about time you were happy. You now have a great deal and you're not going to have your companies leaving for Mexico anymore or Canada and you're not going to have them make your product in Mexico or Canada, send it over here with no tariff, with no tax. Where we lose tax, we lose jobs, we lose our companies, we lose everything, and they make a lot of money selling the product to us, same product. So we're not doing that stuff anymore. There's a tremendous disincentive. It's called like, let's not do it. And you haven't seen that lately. You haven't seen too many companies leaving, have you? That's sort of an amazing thing. It's a little bit like what we did with the statues. So on the statues, they were knocking them down three or four months ago. I said, ""Do we have any laws?"", ""No. But there was a very old law."" I said, ""What was it?"", ""You get ten years in jail, ten years in prison --"" they actually used the word prison, which is a tough word. ""You get ten years in prison if you knock down a statue or a monument."" I said, ""Let me see that law. I want to see that law."" Right? Glenn, Right? I want to see that law. Where's Duffy, is he there? Oh, look at that guy, he's climbing trees tomorrow. And Rachel, oh Rachel, he was a good climber. You think he could climb up a tree faster than me? I think so. So I just want to tell you. So what we've done in a very, very short period of time is what nobody thought and we came in and we did it and we did it for you and we did it for everybody, we did it for our country. But we wouldn't have a country left. What was happening to our country, how we were taken advantage, now we have to get four more years to submit it and to do additional things including tax cuts. They're going to raise your taxes. They're going to raise your taxes very substantially. We're cutting your taxes. We got you the biggest tax cut in history and we're going down lower, it's called growth. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.  Thank you very much. So big tax cuts, big regulation cuts. The Democrats, they want to -- Democrats, they want to just really break this down in terms of our competitive ability to compete with other nations. You notice what's happening with Japan, you know what -- Notice what's hap- We have taken billions and billions of dollars in from China. We charge them a fortune. In fact, many farmers in this group because you got to love Trump. I gave you $28 billion, right? Thank you very much, China, right? You were targeted12 billion, Sonny Perdue, secretary of agriculture. I said, ""Sonny, how much have they been hit for, targeted for?"" Remember when China said we're not going to do anything, we're not buying, we're -- You know, they thought they were going to put pressure on us. Sonny said, ""Sir, 12 billion the year before last and last year was 16, total of 28 billion."" We took 28 billion out of the tariffs. China never paid us 10 cents, not 10 cents with Obama and Biden. And in all fairness, with no president, they paid us nothing. They pay off -- they pay us now tens of billions of dollars. I took a small portion of it, I added it up 16 and 12, 28. And I said, ""$28 billion is going to the farmers."" Did everybody get that money, right? You had a very good year. You know, the farmers have had a very good year. Last week, China ordered -- and you have to understand, I view China differently now than I did six months ago. We made a great trade deal, but I view it differently because I don't know if I can ever view it the same. But last week -- they know how I feel and they're very smart. So instead of saying we're not going to do business, which would have been OK with me, we would've worked it out. Somehow you would have been very successful, the farmers. But last week, they had the largest order of corn. Did you know this? In the history of our country. Did anyone know this? The farmers. From China, thank you very much. The largest order of soybeans in the history of our country and one of the largest cattle orders in the history of our country. Because they're very smart. Somebody else would have said, ""Well, let's not do business."" and then it would have been easy for me. But they gave us so much, I have every farmer calling up saying, ""Please, do me a favor."" We love this. We love this. This is a great deal. It's a great deal, but we feel differently about it, don't we? We just feel differently about it. I don't talk about it like I used, I talked about it, it was great. And it turned out to be a great deal, but I don't talk about it the same way. At no time before, has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, or two agendas for the future than these two parties? You got law and order on one side and you have chaos on the other. On November 3rd, Wisconsin will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity or whether we will allow Biden and the Democrats to impose a four trillion-dollar tax hike, ban American energy, confiscate your guns, which is what they want to do, shut down the economy, destroy the suburbs, you know they were destroying our suburbs, you know that, right? I don't know if somebody said you're just doing OK in the suburbs. I said, ""How can I do OK? I save the suburbs, what I've done is saved the suburbs."" and you know this, I don't have to go into it, but I save the suburbs. I think the suburbs -- You know that last time, four years ago, ""Oh, he's not going to do well with women. I did great with women. They said, ""Well, do a big thing."" Remember that? Election eve. ""He won't do well. This will be a very short --"" Not doing well with women. I did great, they said at the end of the night after they announced I won. They said, What happened? Well, he did very well with women. I don't know what happened there. They said, ""He did very well with the African-American community. He did very well with the Hispanics. They said he did very well with everything. We kicked their ass. That was -- No, but was that one of the greatest evenings ever? Remember? And remember all the fake news. Look at all -- Oh lot, that's a lot of people back there. Look at that. The red lights are on. Don't worry, I won't say anything bad about you, CNN. Because as soon as I see -- As soon as I'm getting ready to say something about fake news, etc., etc., the lights start going off. So I'm not going to -- Whoops, one just went off. You can tell by the lights. They got that little beautiful red light. You see it? But I won't say anything bad about it, but they are fakers. And do you remember when they -- Remember when they were saying that the polls are terrible. Actually, these polls are very good compared -- That was so bad, it was like, why did anybody vote? They called suppression polls. They make him so bad that you lose all your appetite, you lose all your spirit, they take your guts out, and you know, go and vote. And your wife looks at you and said, ""Darling, I love that guy, but he's not going to win, he doesn't have a chance because the polls, he's down 10., he's down 20, down 50 points, Darling. He can't possibly win. Let's go have dinner and then we'll come home and watch his concession speech."" But my people didn't buy that because my people went out to vote. And instead, we watched her concession speech. That was crooked Hillary. That was a real piece of work. Remember when she would say, ""Will you accept the decision of the voters? Will you accept that decision?"" And I didn't -- You know, I was imperfect, I said, ""I'll see how it works out."" I mean I should have said, ""Yes, I will."" but I couldn't do that because I know how crooked she is, right. Would you just -- would you accept that decision? You know, and then the -- the anchor said to be like, ""Well, will you accept?"" You know, they're coming after me, I said, ""You're supposed to be going after her a little bit too."" Did you ever see debates where you had all of the anchors plus the candidates against me? And here we said, ""Is that Air Force One?"" ""Yes, that's Air Force."" How did that happen? Now we had it. A lot of time I'd say that the anchors say, wait a minute, wait a minute, this isn't fair. I mean, I'm watching what they're doing with Biden, where he's using teleprompters, ""Move it up, move it up. I can't see, I can't see."" He's shot, he's shot. Now, President Xi of China is not shot. Putin is not shot. Kim Jong-un, remember, we're supposed to be in a war with him. What happened to the war? We're not -- no, it seems to be good. Did you see the Middle East two days ago? Remember our incompetent negotiator, John Kerry, he never got up to walk, the guy's getting beaten in every point. I say, ""Walk, walk. Get up and leave the table, you're giving up."" They say, ""We want this."" he said, ""Well, I'd rather not."" ""We want this."" OK, you got it."", ""We want that."", ""You got it."", ""We want that."" Say no and walk. They'll probably, possibly, call you back and if they don't, that's OK too. But right now, I will tell you, Iran, if we win, Iran will be calling us within the first week. They're dying to make a deal. GDP down 27%. They don't have too much money for terror anymore. It's actually amazing. Do you know notice what's going on? Now, I don't want to speak too loud, but I did put out on social media the other day that if they hit us in any way, any form, written instructions already done. We're going to hit them 1,000 times harder than we've ever hit them before. So hopefully, they will just come and we'll make a deal and they'll go back to being a rich country, let him go back and be rich, but they cannot have a nuclear weapon, they cannot.That deal was so bad that Obama made 150 billion. They got one $150 billion for nothing. You know, the deal is practically -- If I didn't terminate it, which I'm proud to have done, but if I didn't terminate it, and they got 1.8 billion in cash, how about that? If I didn't terminate that stupid deal, first of all, you wouldn't have the deal in the Middle East and all these countries are joining. It's happening fast. They're all wanted. They want to all join. We did it, you know, the reverse, we did it the re -- Thank you very much. Thank you very much.  Yes, sir, thank you very much. I knew I liked you, you know, so the Nobel Peace Prize. So the funny thing, a lot of people don't know it because the fake news isn't right about it. So if you're a President, right, and you are nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, here the United States, no, but think of this. That's a big deal. I mean, Obama got it, like, in his first couple of weeks and nobody knew why he got it including him. Remember -- He couldn't tell you why. He had no idea to this day. He has no idea why he got it. But if you're a President and you get nominated, then two days later you get nominated. Did you know this? A second time for a different deal Kosovo, Serbia, they've been killing each other for hundreds of years. I stopped a lot of death and I did it like, easy. It wasn't hard for me. It's sort of a natural thing to do. But we did a good thing. But you know what? They did a check. So I got nominated twice for the Nobel Peace Prize. That's a big deal. I don't know. I should have gotten nominated seven times because we did a lot of other things, but these are for two different deals. And not one mention it was made on the evening news, think of it. Now, when Obama got it, it was -- Headlines, headlines: Our President just got the Nobel Peace Prize. He was just nominated. Headlines: like his first little while he got it. And to this day, and frankly, he did a lousy job, he was a lousy President. He really was. And his Vice President, I'll tell you what, his Vice President was very good for --You know who? For Hunter. Where's Hunter? Where's -- Remember the quid pro quo? Remember? I'm not giving them that billion dollars unless you get rid of that prosecutor, and whoa, they got rid of the prosecutor, here's the billion, right? But they don't want to play that too often. You know, you have to look around for it. Nah, it's a very unfair deal. But as the expression goes: we won, I don't know how the hell we did it, if you think about it. But when you look at the opposition, when you look at how unfair it is and these guys know very well. You look at how unfair it is, it's pretty damn good, but we have a lot of support. We have tremendous support of the people. These rallies, look at this rally, these rallies. These rallies are incredible. And I will tell you, Sean, I think these rallies -- I think there's more spirit this year than there was four years ago and we had a record, right? There's more enthusiasm. I think it's the biggest enthusiasm gap ever polled. I begin -- I'm not a believer in the polls, but I believe that one is the biggest enthusiasm gap. He's got no enthusiasm. The only enthusiasm is for the people that want to beat us, they want to beat me. That's his only -- That's the only thing he's got. The people that want to -- They couldn't care less about him. He could be that piece of wood that was left on the ground. Biden will hand the left-wing mob the keys to your kids' classroom. Earlier today, I took a historic stand against the hateful lies being fed to America's youth, their parents know all about it. And I -- I checked they're doing it in Wisconsin too. I -- You know, I'm a little surprised, little surprised. You -- I'm a little surprised. I know you'd be -- I'm a little surprised you let it happen, actually. But we're going to get rid of it. I announced it. We're launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called 1776 commission. We're going to teach our children the truth about America. That we're the most exceptional nation ever to exist and we're getting better every single day. Sleepy Joe Biden is wholly owned and controlled by the far left. He even opposed sending the National Guard into a place called Kenosha. Did you ever hear of Kenosha? How about that, did we do a good job? Now, I mean, I wish we did it a little sooner, but we finally got your governors OK. You know, we have to do that. If we got to get the governors to say, please do it, how they don't do it, how they don't do it in some other places, when you look at what's going on with Chicago, right? When you look at what's going on with Portland, those are just anarchists. You know how long it would take us to fix up Portland in terms of ending it all? I'd say, far less than an hour, I'd say a half hour. Look at we did at Minneapolis. You know we're doing well in Minnesota because they saw what happened. Now, they shouldn't have allowed it to go on for 11 days. They should call this immediately. But you remember that beautiful night? Nice evening. A little problem, there were a lot of buildings in the background that were burning down to the ground. As reporters said, ""No, this is a peaceful protest, OK."" By the way, officially, this is called a protest. You know that. We no longer call it rallies, we don't use the term rally, OK? Rachel knows. We don't call them rallies anymore, because you know you're not allowed to have a political rally for more than 10 people. You're not allowed to go to church, you're not allowed to meet, you're not allowed to talk to anybody. You have to stay in a prison. Your home has become your prison. And then I'm saying, ""Well, what are you allowed to do?"", ""Sir you're not allowed to do anything. I mean, there is one thing, but it doesn't pertain to you."", ""What is it?"", ""Well, you are allowed to protest."", ""Oh, really? Oh!"" Hence the name. We call them friendly protest. So these are protests, so it's totally allowed. This is a protest. Remember. When they walk out and when you walk outside, why do you consider this? Did you enjoy the rally? No, I -- I really -- This is a protest, I'm sorry. No, they had a little line and bottom I don't know if it's your state, but a couple of them. They have -- You're allowed to protest. So you can't go to church, but you can rip the hell out of the streets of Main Street and 5th Avenue, break up the stores, burn down the buildings, climb over each other's face. You can climb right over their face. You don't have to wear masks, you don't have to do anything. Twenty-five thousand people walking down the street, looters, anarchists, agitators, burning down stores, throwing things at police. They've taken the authority away from our police, our great police. They've taken their authority and their dignity away. We're giving it back, we have to, we have to. By the way, I was endorsed by New York's finest and we're with them all the way. I was just endorsed two days ago by Chicago police. I think that takes courage, right? Philadelphia, Florida, Texas, everybody, Ohio. I don't know. Did anybody -- Is there one group of -- Even if it was a tiny little group with two or three police, did anybody endorse Sleepy Joe? I don't think so. But we did a great job in Kenosha. We got out there. We -- I went there, as you know, a little while ago, but had we not gone in that place would -- it would have been burned to the ground. They did damage. We should have gone in. I wanted to go in the first night, we would have stopped it immediately. But it was a great outcome, as was in Minnesota, again, if they would have called us early, it would have been over. Portland, I'd love to go there. That would be so easy. You know in Seattle, they heard we were coming in, they gave up, they heard we -- I said, ""That's enough we're going in, I don't care we're going in."", ""Do you have permission?"", ""No, we're going in."" They took over a chunk of the city and when they heard we were going in it's like, ""Well, we give up that's it."" That was the end of the Seattle problem. Now, it's a terrible thing that's going on. All in Democratic-run, super liberal-run cities. They're red -- They're red cities, our are doing great, I think, we're doing great all over, the Republican cities. You know we're fair. We're not stupid. How stupid these people are. Did you see Chicago? Forty-eight people shot, six died. You know we're in Afghanistan, we're pulling the troops, you know, that we're coming back, we're almost finished. We're pulling, finally, these endless wars, these endless wars and we had to fight other things and -- but we've done a great job, but we're acting like a police force over there. Now, we're pulling troops we're almost out of Iraq. That's another one, we're down to about two thousand troops. Did you know that, John? Two thousand troops. So, Syria we're out, but we kept the oil. So we have some -- Was it OK that we at least kept the oil? You know I feel badly because we have some troops -- ""Oh, you haven't pulled the troops."" No, no, we're gone. We pulled all the troops out of Syria. Remember we're supposed to be guarding the border b"
"Wow. Beautiful. What a -- what a crowd this one is and you got thousands and thousands of people outside. They're taking buses. They're working to get over here. Wow.  Thank you very much. So I want to start by saying hello, Nevada. How are you doing? How are you? And I'm thrilled to be in Douglas County, but people are coming from all over the place. There's a lot of people for Douglas County, isn't it? We have thousands and thousands of loyal, hard-working American patriots, that's what we have. And 52 days from now, we're going to win Nevada and we're going to win four more years in the White House. And then after that, we'll negotiate, right? 'Cause we're probably -- based on the way we were treated, we're probably entitled to another four after that.  And it should never happen to another President. It's just a dishonest group of people, but here we are and we're going to be here for another four years.  You know, the Governor of your state  tried very hard to stop us from having this event tonight. He didn't like us having -- they can have riots and they can have all sorts of things and that's OK. You can burn up the house. That's OK. You know you call it -- we call this a protest because if you go to protest, you're allowed to have them. Don't forget. So if anybody asks you outside, this is called a friendly protest, OK? It's true. They have -- you can't have political rallies. You -- that's because of me because if Biden were here, he'd have about three people. Get to see him with his little circles, his circle, you know why he puts the circle? Because he wants to be like correct with COVID but it's not really because they can't get anybody to fill up a room. So they put these big circles. So he can't get anybody to fill. Nobody wants to go, oh, boy, you know the fake news, look at all those people back there, the fake news.  That's true. Boy, they covered. Did you see the other day? Now they're finding out that to do an interview, an interview, they ask him a question. That means they're giving him the questions. They never gave me questions before. So to do an interview, he demands in getting the questions and his people write out the answer. So they ask him a question. He goes, bring that, bring it up, bring it closer. I can't see it. Damn it. Great. This is something. You know, we have a debate coming up in three weeks, and here's the problem. You know, Winston Churchill, did you ever hear of Winston Churchill? Winston Churchill was a great debater. Great. And if Joe gets off the stage, walks off the stage, if he makes it, which I think he probably will in all fairness. You know, he's been doing this for 47 years. I think he probably will. If he gets off the stage, they're going to say it was the single greatest debate they've ever seen. Winston Churchill was nothing compared to sleepy Joe. You know that, you know that. They're going to say what a great performance. He was great today. He was great. This guy was great. No, he's not great, but your Governor tried to stop us. He tried to stop us.  The Governor of Nevada. He tried to stop us and he went -- we went to different venues, Kelly O'Donnell, you know, she's a fading reporter for NBC. Do you know that? She was on -- she said, well, you know, they have a crowd tonight. Behind her, it looked like 25,000 people. That's what we have, by the way, a lot more coming in. She said he's got maybe a thousand people, a thousand? You know what I got? I have a thousand people here.  No, this is the fake news. You know what? It's not a question of like how many, they are just a bunch of dishonest people. I've never seen anything like it.  You know, being in real estate and being in New York and being in all over, I've seen a lot of dishonest people. I think the media, the fake news is the most dishonest group of people I've ever seen anywhere in my entire life. And that includes, by the way, leaders of foreign countries that aren't our friends, OK? That's a big statement. They really are bad news, but here we are and this is really amazing. The Governor tried to stop us, he couldn't. But think of this, he's in control of millions of votes. Here's a guy calling venues telling them not to have the rally, calling different venues, don't have the rally. We're not going to let you have the rally. And he's calling, this Governor, who's a political hack. He was a political hack and then he became Governor. And this is the guy that we're entrusting with millions of ballots, unsolicited ballots, millions and millions and then we're supposed to win these states.  And we have a guy that would do that where he won't let us have it. We call it a protest and therefore we can do it. But you want to know something? It's a disgrace. So who the hell is going to trust -- you know, they say, trust, trust government. Well, how would you trust a guy that fought, that we aren't here, that we can't have all these thousands of people? Boy, you are really back far. That's -- look at that. No, but -- but seriously. And now he's in charge of -- he's in charge of the election and the millions of ballots. So if I'm up like millions of votes, he can rig the election. He can rig the election. And I'll tell you what, whether it's in North Carolina, whether it's in Michigan, whether it's in other states where they're sending out, they're going to be sending out -- they're going to be sending out 80 million ballots that -- and it's Democrats. They're going to -- they're trying to rig this election.  At every single place in the last year, year and a half, go modern-day, forget about tiny amounts, a congressional race in New York, a small number of votes. Uh, if you go to New Jersey, if you go to Virginia, if you go to Pennsylvania, if you go to California, and you look at some of these races, everyone, every one of these races was a fraud missing ballots and I don't mean like 1%. I mean like 20%, 25%, they're trying to rig the election. They should make people -- if you register, if you want a solicited ballot, that's where you ask for it. You have to sign papers. You get it 'cause you can't be there. That's one thing. When they sent 80 million ballots to people, they have no idea where they're going. Actually, they probably do have a good idea where they're going and that's our problem. They send 80 million ballots out. Where are they going? Who are they sending them to? Are they sending them to certain areas and not other areas? Are they sending them to Democrat areas? These are all controlled by Democrat Governors, like your politically motivated Governor. So, so just to finish on that, look, just to finish on that, he's a guy that tried to silence us by not having this and it ended up -- our crowd turned out to be a lot bigger than NBC, which is, which is, which is owned by Concast, con, Concast, con, con cast, Concast. It's really Comcast but I call it con because it's a whole con. I'll tell you what, you know, they talked -- in the old days, I think it should still be, news when they broadcast, how to be reasonably accurate, right? And they had licensing. Today, they can do whatever the hell they want. It's fake news and it's a disgrace. And you know what back there and I'll tell you, it's hurting our country. It's hurting our country. They're the biggest problem that this country has is the fake news media, worse than the Democrats, because, you know, the Democrats and their partners they played together. Joe Biden spent the last 47 years selling out America, offshoring your jobs, throwing open your borders, depleting our military, and sacrificing your children's future in China. I've spent the last four years bringing our jobs back to America, securing our border, rebuilding our military, and standing up to China like never before. Nobody has ever stood up to China like we have stood up to China and you haven't seen the last of it.  Sleepy Joe Biden, surrendered -- you know where he is now? He's in his damn basement again. No, he's in his basement. He's in his basement. But you know, I can be bad to him because he put the most vicious ad on television that I've ever seen. Do you know what I'm talking about? Where I'm standing over the graves of our fallen warriors, our fallen heroes. These are great people. The greatest people there are and I'm standing over there and they have some sleazebag reporter from a third-rate magazine having some source quoting me saying, I won't even use the term, but saying bad things. And there's nobody that loves our military, respects it, and the people more than me. And they took -- and I didn't even ask. We had 25 people that were witnesses that are on the record already that have said that never took place. It never took place what they said. And yet pathetic Joe and he's a pathetic human being to allow that to happen. Here's the problem, he doesn't even know what happened. I don't think, I don't think, I think he has no idea, but he's a pathetic human being to let that happen, where they put an ad like that where I'm standing over graves and then he said, he said this with no sources, no nothing. They got nothing. And I have 25 real witnesses with the names, with everything saying it never happened. And they put an ad like that up there, a disgrace. But you know the good part? Now I can be really vicious. I could be really vicious. And we'll start by saying -- we're going to start by saying that the Democrats are trying to rig this election because it's the only way they're going to win. The only way they're going to win is to rig it. Biden's surrendered your jobs to China. He -- look, his son walked away with $1.5 billion. Give me a break. Give me a break. His son's going to say, dad, you can't take this money away. Don't do it, Dad, please, I -- You know how much experience he had? There's a young man, there's a young man here. He's a very young, young man, handsome young guy. He's about like 12, you know what? He's got more experience than Hunter, Hunter. Where's Hunter? Where is he? With no experience, no knowledge of energy, no job, got thrown out of the military. I hear he got thrown out by the way. I used to be nice about that. Now I don't. Once I saw that ad, I don't have to be nice anymore, OK? I really mean it. You know, and by the way, on that ad, I know some horrible people, horrible human beings, some of the worst people in the world, I really do. They're horrible. None of those people and they're the worst, the worst real estate developers in New York, you don't get much worse. I know some of the worst people in the world, not one person do I know that would say that standing on top of graves of heroes, really, not one person. So I will tell you this, so now we can play it like it is. Let's face it. Joe is shot. Let's face it, OK? He's shot. So not that he has anything to do because he won't know what's happening. He'll just be locked up in a room someplace and the radical left is going to be running our country. Yeah.  Thank you. But now he wants to surrender our country to the violent left-wing mob. You know that. If Biden wins, China wins. If Biden wins, the mob wins. You see what's going on with all these democratic or I always say Democrat-run cities and states, it's a disaster. It's a disaster. And we keep saying, let us bring in the troops. Well, we did in Minneapolis, we ended it in 45 minutes. It was ended. They went through two weeks. By the way, we could do it in Portland in half an hour. It would all be over. But we have these stupid people that think -- how about that poor Mayor. Is that pathetic Wheeler? Is that pathetic? They forced him out of his home. He's had a fa -- he's now finding a new home. It's so nice. It's pathetic. Honestly, it's pathetic. We could solve that problem in a half an hour, just like we did. And by the way, the U.S. Marshals did a great job in Portland. They did a great job. You know what I mean. If Biden wins, the rioters win, the anarchists win, arsonists, flag burners, they all win. I'm running for reelection to bring prosperity to Nevada, to hope, to the whole country. I've been here a long time. I have some things in Nevada that are very good, to put violent criminals behind bars, and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China. I do get a kick of watching a guy, oh, I'm going to do this. You know, he copied my whole plan. Did you see? He says by America, I said, where the hell have you been for the last half-century?  Thank you. Could -- could I ask the -- could I ask the fake news to take your cameras and show all the way back there for hundreds of yards, all the way back there, take your cameras. Go ahead, as far as the eye can see. No, no, tell NBC news it's not a thousand people. You don't -- you don't, you can't see it. You can't see it down here. You won't believe how many people and it goes back.  So the bottom line is when we win, America wins, that's what's happening. And nobody's done to China what I did. Look, billions, tens of billions, of dollars of tariffs we took in. I gave $28 billion to farmers. The farmers are doing very well. They're doing very well. Thank you. Thank you, President Trump, $28 billion, $16 billion one year, $12 billion, they were targeted. I said, how much is it? Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture. Great guy, said how much were they hurt by? Sir, $12 billion two years ago and $16 billion last year. I said, all right, good. We'll take it out of China. We gave them $28 billion to the farmers. That never happened before. Do you think Joe Biden would even think about it? He wouldn't even think about it. He wouldn't even think about it. No, he's more worried about, does he have a teleprompter to answer a reporter's question. You know the worst part about that isn't the fact that he's doing that because let's face it, he's unable, OK? It's not that. It's that the fake news would give him the questions. They never gave me the questions. Did you ever give me questions back there? Did you ever give me que -- they don't give me questions. The fake news would give him questions, but of course, now, Donna Brazile works for Fox. So that's gone a long way. Remember?  Remember when Donna Brazile gave crooked Hillary the questions, right, to a debate. And then she said, well, I don't think I did it. I don't remember. I knew she was in trouble when she said, um, I don't remember doing that. I don't remember. She didn't remember. Oh, OK. Well, as long as you don't remember.  It's true. It's true, too. You know what, I used to stand back and I'd say, you know, be quiet, please. Don't say that. It's really not nice. You know it's true. She deleted 33 -- think of it. They'll never find the emails 'cause they were acid washed, deleted, but you know what? She got a subpoena from the United States Congress, right? And she and her lawyer deleted 33,000 emails after she got a United States subpoena. And you say, why isn't she guilty of a major crime? Right? And then she took her telephones and she smashed them with a hammer, right? And then she took the other ones and she deleted them. And now the Mueller scam, these people, the worst people. I have a friend, a very smart guy, a very streetwise guy. He said, you have to be the most honest guy in the world to go through three years of investigations, where they have the worst human beings in the world. They worked for the Democrats. They work -- I mean, Mueller didn't have a clue. This guy was totally -- but look at this, Weissman, how bad was Weissman? He deleted his phone. That's illegal. He deleted everything. They all deleted and they all said, oh, gee, we made a mistake, we're sorry. They all used the same mistake. They all made -- it was, oh, gee, we didn't mean to do that. Every one of them, all of them. I think it was 31 different phones. They deleted. These are criminals we're dealing with and they've got to -- there has to be a repercussion. There has to be a repercussion. We're dealing with criminals. So I don't care if you say it anymore. 'Cause you know what? She illegally deleted and her lawyer should go to jail with her, OK? And the fact is the Republican party doesn't play it rough and tough like those people. They don't play it the same way. They're too nice and you know, we have better policy. Thank goodness. We have better -- we have, we believe in borders. We believe in no sanctuary cities. We believe in lowering taxes. We have better -- but our people don't. We have some that are very good. Jim, Jim Jordan. Good. Right? Jim Jordan, Mark Meadows. Good. Right? No, we have some very good, but I'll tell you what, we play it so nice and in the end, it's not right because what they get away with -- and Obama and Biden  got caught spying on our campaign using the intelligence, I put that in quotes, using intelligence to spy in our campaign and they got caught, they got caught. And you know, if it was me that got caught, forget about it. But they got caught and somebody said, well, I know, but he was President. Oh, great. I'm President, too. And a hell of a lot better president than he is. I can tell you. You know, Obama came into office they gave him the Nobel Prize, like almost immediately, right? In fact, he didn't even know why he got it. He didn't even know. He had no idea why he got it and he was right about that because nobody else does either. They still don't know, but we've done a lot of things. So we were nominated a few days ago for a Nobel Prize, which is a big thing, Nobel Peace Prize. And then yesterday, we were nominated a second time for another Nobel Prize. Now that's a big thing. To me, you know, it's a big thing, even though, obviously, it's a very political thing, but it's a very big thing. The Nobel Peace Prize, right? I got -- and it was just reported. I'm just reporting this. I got zero time on the nightly news, on the network news, zero, zero. We got zero time, think of it. The President of your country is honored by being nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize and your nightly news, ABC, which is terrible; CBS, which is terrible; and probably the worst of all owned by Concast. They spend a fortune, you know, on PR and then every time I get up, I call them Concast and to sort of wipe out their fortune, but they are bad people. But NBC is the worst of them all, not one mentioned. These people are corrupt, not one mentioned, not one mentioned. So your President gets a Nobel and you know, at least a nomination and they don't mention it. Joe Biden cannot lead our country because he doesn't really believe in our country. Right now, I don't think he believes in anything. He just wants to go to sleep. That's all. Please, darling. I want to go to bed. I'm exhausted. I made -- I made one speech yesterday. But darling, they gave you the answers and the questions. I know, but that was a big strain because my eyes, I couldn't see the teleprompter. This guy is the worst. I am runnning -- and you know, it's going to maybe come back to haunt me because we have a rigged election. It's a rigged election. It's the only way we're going to lose, but I'll tell you what, he is the worst candidate in the history of Presidential politics. He doesn't know he's alive. He doesn't know he's alive. And what -- and I've gotten to know President Xi of China very well, President Putin of Russia, Kim Jong-Un -- and by the way, what happened to the war? So who's going to war with Kim Jong-Un? What? Where's the war? Where's the war? Oh, I see. Oh, I see. It never happened did it? It never happened did it? Well, maybe someday. It could happen. No, remember? We're going to be -- Trump is going to be, you know, my personality, right? Trump is going to be at war within the first week after he wins. Uh, where's the war? In fact, the Peace Prize was because I stayed out of wars, and by the way, ended certain wars that could have happened that you don't even know about and look good -- look at what we did. Look what we did just yesterday in Europe and look what we did with Israel and you just saw that with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain for 72 years, nothing happened and we did it. We do it very fast and plenty of other countries are going to be coming in. At Biden's convention, they decried -- you're a hell of a crowd. I'll tell you.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Now, after this is over, after this over, you'll have like at NBC, this third-rate reporter stand up or they had a small crowd, an insignificant, insignificant crowd in a great location. You know how great it was? We landed, we had to drive for 50 minutes. That's how great. But I like it anyway. I'll take it. I'll take it anyway. I like it. You're my kind of people. We love each other. I like it. We landed the big, beautiful Air Force One. I just asked as we're coming in, why couldn't we have landed here? I would have rather, you know. Then, I could have had the plane right behind there. Instead, we have the beasts in the base. What you don't know is the beast cost almost as much as the plane. It's a hell of a car. It's a walk-in army tank, the beast. So -- but we could have, I said, why don't we just land here and we couldn't. So I get off the plane. Oh, good. How long will it be? About 50 minutes, sir. That's a long drive and driving here, there were tens of thousands of people on the streets with flags. And then you read these fake reporters and they say, uh, President Trump is tied in Nevada tied. I don't think so. The only way we're tied is if they screw around with the ballots, which they will do in my opinion, OK? Uh, we're not tied anywhere. I asked some people that traveled with Obama, I said was it the same thing? They say, not even a tiny fraction of what you have, it's not even a fraction. We have more enthusiasm. We have more spirit than any campaign that anybody's ever seen. It's true. And that includes 2016, where the -- the enthusiasm, obviously, was great. How about all those states that we weren't supposed to win? No, he won't win there. He won't win there. Then all night long, Donald Trump won the great state of Texas. Donald Trump won the great state of this and that and one after another. And they would go, was that one of the coolest things, watching their people go crazy? They went crazy. No, they went crazy. How's he going to do in Georgia? Well, I think Georgia is going to be very close. It's going to be very close. They go, uh, the polls in Georgia have closed. Donald Trump wins the state of Georgia. You know why? 'Cause we won by so much. If they can do it simultaneously by saying the polls slows that he won, we had many of them, right? And we're doing, by the way, we're doing great. I just had Florida is a biggie and a good one and we are winning in Florida by a lot. So that's good, a lot. I'll tell you here, 'cause you don't read about that stuff. They don't like to write that. They don't like to write it. They have all fake polls. I'll tell you what, the polls are worse than the writing. Actually, in my opinion, the polls, you know, their suppression polls, they're meant to make people discouraged. Even me, I'm supposed to be discouraged. And fortunately, four years ago, we weren't discouraged because if we would have believed the polls, nobody would have voted. The concept is really make people feel so that on the election, they go, darling, let's go out to dinner. It's so sad about the President. Uh, I wish he was going to win, but let's go out to dinner then we'll come home, and let's not bother voting, right? Let's not bother voting. You see it's a suppression, but we -- my people don't get suppressed. My people go out and vote. My people go out and vote. There's no suppression. Phony polls. How about the guy? The New York times hired this pollster, this great genius. He never called one wrong. I don't know, 346. I don't know what the hell -- it's like, it's called 340. What's his number? What's his deal? Yeah. It's Silver, Silver, Nate Silver. They pay him a fortune. He said I think he gave us a 2% chance or 3%. Donald Trump is the 3% chance today of winning. The damn thing was over by 10 o'clock. He was given -- we were given a very tiny chance. What chance did he give us like 9%, something like that you know? They gave him millions of dollars shortly before 'cause he never called one wrong. He called that one wrong. He called that one wrong. And this is the one, why? I mean, I must tell you they're a little more accurate. At least here they have us, even in a lot of places, right? He's even, well, we're not even, we're not even. This is going to be the greatest victory. This is a more important election than four years ago. I'll tell you, more important. Because at no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties or two visions, two philosophies, two agendas for the future. There has no -- never been anything like this. On November 3rd, Nevada will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity like we had. We had the greatest economy in the history, not of our country, in the world. We were beating everybody. We were beating China. Remember, if you go back, some of you go back. If you go back 10 years, 15 years, five years, everything was in 2019, China will overtake the United States as the largest economy and that didn't work out too well for them. That didn't work out. We were -- we were just doing leaps and bounds. We were doing so great and then we got hit with the plague, the China plague and we're not a -- we're not thrilled. It's a disgrace. Nobody should have died. Nobody should have died. We got hit. The whole world got hit, but they stopped it from going into the rest of China. They stopped it from going into China, but they didn't stop it from coming into the U.S. and Europe and 188 countries. So whether or not we allow Biden to impose the biggest tax increase in the history of our country, $4 trillion or ban and -- he wants to ban energy or ban America. He wants to stop fracking. Hey, by the way, when he was running as a Democrat and in the worst debate performances I've ever seen, OK? What do you think? He was unable to answer anything. Are you awake, sir? Sir, please wake up. And who was the worst? Who, who treated him the worst? Kamala, Kamala. She's another beauty. She started off as a favorite. She was at 15. Then she went down to 14 to 12 to 10. She was like a dropping rock and water. She was going down so fast. Then, she went down to five and four and three, two, and then she said, I got to get the hell out of here. This is getting embarrassing. And nobody treated him worse than Kamala, right? She called him a racist. She called him everything. She was horrible to him and he says, I'm going to choose Kamala. She's just great. Oh, yeah. Oh, these people, these people. You know, you're supposed to choose the people that did well. She got out before I was, I remember, right? She didn't want to run in Iowa and then Bernie got -- again, this guy is the greatest loser ever because no, no, no. He's a good sport. Bernie, crazy Bernie. He's so crazy. But he's a good sport because, you know, with Hillary, they really did. Do we have any young children here? I know it's on a lot of television. Could you turn the television off just for a minute? Just for about three seconds, he got screwed, right? OK, now you can turn it back on. But then they really did with this last one because if Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren, if she would have left the race one day before the big super Tuesday, she -- I mean, Bernie would have her philosophy, right? Liberals, by the way, you know who's more liberal than Bernie? Kamala. She's rated the No. 1 most liberal, but this is not for Nevada. This is not for --  and I would say, she'll be President. If he ever won, she'll be President within the first month or so I would say. I think it's just an excuse, using him is just an excuse to get the super libs in there. So they can destroy our suburbs, demolish our Second Amendment, erase your borders, and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in school.  So under my leadership, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And now, we're doing it again. We're doing it again. You see that though and we're developing a vaccine in record time. It will be ready before the end of the year and maybe much sooner than that. They're very unhappy about that. You know, it's amazing. We have a couple of really great experts. One who's -- we call him Dr. Scott, you know what I'm talking about? He's great. He said you know, this is the only time -- they were grilling him on television. Well, the vaccine's going too fast. You know why that's too fast? Because they don't want it to happen before the election. He said you know, this is the only thing in the world. I've never seen anything like it. Everybody wants a vaccine and when we start getting it fast, because President Trump happens to be President and we've done this in record time, years ahead of schedule. If this was sleepy Joe and Obama, you wouldn't have a vaccine for three years. But listen, he said, this is the craziest thing. So you're going to have a vaccine quickly, right? And everybody's upset about it. So now they're trying to hurt the vaccine and they're trying to say as many bad -- they know nothing about it, but they're trying to hurt it, and it's a shame, but he said it better than anybody I've heard. He said you know, you're trying to hurt this country by saying bad things about the vaccine because we're going to produce it early. It's the craziest thing. Think about it. Now, having a vaccine is good, but we're rounding the turn regardless. We're rounding the turn and it's happening. I mean it's happening. You'll see. Florida's way down. Texas is now way down, Arizona Governor's done a great job. All three Governors have done a great job. And Louisiana now they had a spike, but that the spike -- but the spike was able to be handled because now we understand, and what we did, we saved millions of lives because I hated to do it, but we had to close it up, understand this disease and then open up again. And we opened, but we would have had 2 million, 2.5, or 3 million people think of it. We're at like around 180,000 for this -- one is too many, one, too many, but we would have had 2.5, 3, 3.5 million people. It would not have been acceptable, would not have been sustainable. We've done an incredible job and these people that have done it with me, the ventilators, the vaccines, the therapeutics, these people, I mean the hospitals, the beds that we built, the ships that we sent to New York, the ships that we sent, to have an ungrateful Governor in New York, Cuomo, to have an ungrateful Governor, we sent him ships.  We sent them ships. We sent them -- we built a convention center with 2,800 beds and he didn't use the beds for senior citizens. He hardly used the beds at all. He hardly used the ships at all. He said we did a phenomenal job and now he gets political. He wants to get political with me, a real wise guy, but that's OK. You got to see what they are doing between him and de Blasio. That's another beauty.  What they've done to my beautiful city. I love that city so much. What they've done is so horrible. The highest taxes in the land, crime all over the place. They're like 300% up in crime. We need Rudy to come out of retirement.  But we're defeating the China virus. When Biden was Vice President, he was a complete disaster on the swine flu, which was a much easier thing to handle. Joe Biden's zone Chief of staff said that when Biden managed swine flu in 2009, they quote, did every possible thing wrong. This is the guy that worked for him in charge of the swine flu and 60 million Americans got H1N1 in a period of time and it's just purely a fortune. He said it was just -- we were lucky. He said it's just lucky that there weren't great mass casualties, different kind of a disease a little bit and what he said is amazing. He said we did nothing, right. This is the man that's going to tell us all about building ventilators. You think Joe is going to be able to build thousands of ventilators a month, which now we're doing and sending up "
"We brought you a lot of car plants, Michigan. We brought you a lot of car plants. You know that, right? Long time. It's been a long time since you had all these plants being built, but we brought you a lot over the last three and a half years and we're going to bring you a lot more. That's happening. Hello, Michigan. And I'm thrilled to be in Freeland, with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. 54 days from now we're going to win Michigan and we're going to win four more years in the White House. This is the most important election in the history of our country. Joe Biden devoted his career to offshoring Michigan's jobs. Outsourcing -- out -- it's, uh, we shouldn't be smiling about it, but we've changed it around. Outsourcing Michigan's factories, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless foreign wars, and surrendering our children's future to China and other faraway lands. Biden supported every disastrous globalist sell out for over a half a century, including NAFTA, China, and TPP, you know that. Joe Biden surrendered your jobs to China, and now he wants to surrender our country to the violent left-wing mob and you're seeing that every night. If Biden wins, China wins. If Biden wins, the mob wins. If Biden wins, the rioters, anarchists, arsonists, and flag burners win. But I wouldn't worry about it because he's not winning. I don't think he's winning.  You know this is not the crowd of a person who comes in second place, you do know that. The same thing happened four years ago. It was election eve, but by the time I got here it was late, some of you were in that audience at one o'clock in the morning, now Election Day. We had 32,000 people show up, and the reason I went is that I heard that Crooked Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, and Barack Hussein Obama were traveling to Michigan because they heard they had problems. They were supposed to win Michigan, but they did such a lousy job that they had to come and get some votes and they came and I heard about it. They said, ""Sir, could you do it?"", and I hopped in the plane we landed at 12 o'clock in the evening I started speaking at one o'clock in the morning, now Election Day, 32,000, she had 500 people. I said, ""Why are we going to lose Michigan?"", and we didn't, and we didn't. First time in a long time, but now we're up in the polls we just saw polls were up in Michigan. I don't know if that's good or bad. I don't know. I don't know if that's good or bad, because in all those polls where we were down last time, we won, so maybe we're better off being down a little bit. Hello, John James, I see you, handsome guy. John James, get out and vote for John. I'm going to introduce you in a second John James. What a job you've done. You know I have to tell you, he took -- I saw this group of people, they were running, all nice people, three very rich people and one guy that was John James and I saw them all, right. I saw them all and I said, wait. You know with the wonderful invention of TiVo, one of the greats. You can play it back, I said, ""Who was that?"" They said, ""I don't know, sir."" I said, ""Play it back."" I said, ""That man is going to be a star."" It was John James. And that was in the Republican primary and after learning about him with his incredible career and helicopter and he's a great -- and actually a great flier, I heard the other day a great one. A really good one, as opposed to those that aren't so good, but his incredible background and education at West Point and all of the things he did, I said, this guy -- and I endorsed him and he went like a rocketship and frankly, if he had a little more support, he would've won the last time and this time I hear you're even and maybe even ahead, and we're going to win for John James. And he's a great guy, but I'm going to introduce him in a second. I'm running for re-election, to keep jobs in Michigan, and we have got a lot of -- You know last year before the China plague came in, we have the China plague. Thank you, China, very much, should've never let that happen. They should have never ever let it happen. They stopped it from going into China, but they didn't stop it from coming out here and coming into the U.S and Europe and the rest of the world, 188 countries, but it is what it is, and we're not happy about it, and we're going to remember it, we're going to remember it. But we had in Michigan and in the country, the greatest economy in the history of the world. There has never been an economy like that. And now we're building it again and it's being built fast and by the way, it's turning out to be John, a super V, no more V. Now it's turning out to be a super V. But to put violent criminals behind bars and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China, because if we win, America wins, and that's what it's about. If we win, America win. Not only does Joe Biden want to eliminate your jobs, he wants to eliminate your borders, he's promised to flood your state with refugees, and you know that as well as I do, and you see it all the time, from terrorist hotspots around the world, including Syria, Somalia, and Yemen. Biden has pledged to have a 700% increase. He made this deal with Crazy Bernie, a 700% increase in the flow of refugees. So he wants to lift it up by 700%. This is in their manifesto. He's also pledged to terminate all national security travel bans, overwhelming your state with poorly vetted migrants from jihadist regions. Making matters worse, he would open the floodgates in the middle of a pandemic and by the way, the wall over 311 miles long right now, doing very well. Doing very well. Make the mic louder. The mic, louder.  Biden is waging war against the American middle class. I think most of you are not middle class, you're upper class, you're the elite. You know the way they talk about the elite? The elite, they're really elite. I see them, they're not elite, you're the elite. You're the elite. The elite has decided. Boy, have we heard the elite, haven't we? You're the super-elite. The left wants to get rid of me, so they can come after you, it's very simple. Over the last three and a half years, we've secured America's borders, blocked the entry of foreign terrorists, fix our disastrous trade deals, and we have fixed our trade deals good. They are good. In fact, Biden was interviewed today on there, they are CNN. Now he was just interviewed today. He was interviewed by Jake Tapper, who's I find to be a nice guy. I don't think he likes me too much, but that's OK. He was interviewed on CNN and they said, ""Which is better NAFTA or the USMCA?"" He said, ""No, No, the USMCA."" and Tapper goes, ""What?"", he couldn't believe it. He said USMCA. He made a mistake from his perspective. He made a mistake because he doesn't know what's going on, even though he's right, he doesn't know. They we're a little surprised to hear that they gave him a few chances. Let's ask that question again. But we brought back our manufacturing jobs. We rebuilt the awesome power of the US military, we obliterated -- we obliterated the ISIS caliphate and built the greatest economy in the history of the world, and now we are doing it again, bigger and better than ever before. Before the end of the year, we will have a safe and effective vaccine and we will defeat the China virus. I have a feeling that, by the way, I think the vaccine is going to come very soon, very soon. And with it or without it, we're rounding the turn. You see what's happening, you see, the numbers are plunging, you see how good we're doing relative to other countries and other parts of the world, but the fake news doesn't like saying that, they don't like telling you though. And next year, unless you have somebody, that's going to quadruple your taxes, raise your taxes, raise up all of those regulations that we cut, next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of our country. At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties; two visions, two philosophies, and two agendas for the future. There's never been a vision like this. You have Sleepy Joe and you have Trump. Sleepy Joe, he's a beauty, he's a beauty. You know, I watched the Democrat debates, right, and I watched them up there at he was so bad. I said, ""There's no way he makes it."" It's sad, isn't it? The first lady actually came in, at one time she watches she goes, and she's a nice person and she meant this, really, me, I view it differently, but she looked and she watched the debate and she watched Joe and she said, ""Darling, it's so sad."" This was earlier and this is the guy I'm running against. ""It's so sad, darling, it's so sad."", but we got him. Joe Biden has put forward the most extreme platform and it's not him, he doesn't know what platform, he doesn't. It's your radical left people, it's AOC plus three. It's all these people, Bernie, it's Bernie. It's Kamala, the most liberal person in the U.S senate. You know, I tell it all the time, she started off her poll numbers at 15, 14, 12, 12. Then she went back up to 12 and a half. Then it was a big plunge right down to the bottom and then she dropped down, she dropped down. But there's never been anything like this and no major party has ever had a candidate that's so extreme in his views. And again, he took the manifesto drawn up by Bernie and the super lips and that's what he's going by, including a massive increase in your taxes, and a total assault on your Second Amendment. On November 3rd, Michigan, you better vote for me. I got you so many damn car plants. [Audience chants ""We love you. Four more years""] I'll tell you what, I'll be so angry at you. I got you a lot of plants. Is that right? I mean, have you seen what we're doing here? All the plants that had been built or are being built. And what about the plants that are being expanded? They don't want to give you credit for that, they just expanded. I went to Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I say, ""Prime Minister, you have to start doing something."" You know, he's a great guy he'll be retiring soon, he's a great guy, the Prime Minister of Japan Abe. I say, ""Shinzo, Shinzo, you have to do me a favor. You've got send car plants over here. You know you're sending all those cars, we stupidly don't charge you tariffs on those cars that pour into our country."" I said, ""Shinzo, you've got to give us plants."", ""No, No, No. I can't do that. That is up to the free enterprise system of Japan."" I say, ""Shinzo, you're a powerful man, you can do it."", ""Well. I can't do it."" The next day they announced five car companies are coming to Michigan, right. And you hadn't had a plant built. Now, they've been building it for a number of years, but you haven't had a plant built in like 42 years. You know they were the old plants and it's been amazing what's happened in Michigan. But honestly, it's been amazing what's happened in Ohio and North Carolina and South Carolina and Florida, New Hampshire, and so many other places, our country is doing great. We had to take a pause to get rid of the China virus and we got rid of -- We're getting good, we're coming around, we're coming around that turn, I'm telling you, you watch next year, better than last year. It's going to be better than last year. Michigan will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity or whether we'll allow Sleepy Joe to impose $4 trillion in tax hikes, an American energy, confiscate your guns, shut down the economy, and tell your governor to open up your state. You know it's all Democrat governors and I think they do it for political reasons, you know, because they'll be less activity, you'd be doing even better if you had a governor that knew what the hell she was doing, you got to open up the state. And also you have to have a governor because you know right now Michigan's lagging great football, great coach, great team. We want a governor, John James, that's going to let Michigan play Big Ten football this year. You've been seeing a lot of the other schools want to open Big Ten, at my suggestion. How about sleepy Joe? He said, ""Donald Trump is against football."" No, No, No. I'm the one that says ""Open it up. Let's play football."" These people practice disinformation like nobody, has ever practiced that. They're liars. I'll tell you, they lie, but we have a good chance. You have a very good commissioner, and the commission is working hard and hopefully, very soon they'll say you're going to play football, and I hope they're not leaving Michigan out because it's never the same if they do. But you have Maryland where they have a problem in terms of playing, and the governors have a lot of power over that. They have a lot of power, a lot of say. So, let's play Big Ten football, right. They want to shut down auto production, delay the vaccine. They want to destroy your suburbs. Look what I've done for your suburbs. You know what I've done. You know what I've done. Does anybody want to have somebody from Antifa as a member and as a resident of your suburb? I don't think so. Say, ""Darling, who moved in next door?"", ""Oh, it's a resident of Antifa."" ""No, thank you. Let's get out here. Let's get the hell out of here darling. Let's leave our suburbs. Ah, I wish Trump were President. He wouldn't have allowed that to happen."" That's exactly right! I won't allow it to happen. The suburbs are the American dream and I will tell you, I have protected your suburbs. You know I get rid of regulation that played with you zoning and played with other things where they force projects into the suburbs of our great country, and I got rid of it. They said, ""Sir, we can amend it and make it less crazy."" I said, ""No, I don't want to amend it. I don't want to do that. I want to get rid of it."", ""Well, sir, why don't we just do a simple amendment? It would be --"" I said I want to get rid of it, end it, and we ended it. We ended it. I think the people living in the suburbs, which I know very well -- I watch Westchester in New York, where they were doing things that should never have been done, and it's not going to happen to our suburbs. They want to erase your borders and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in our schools, not going to happen. Not going to happen. For the last four years, they've tried everything to stop us and they are only getting more desperate by the day. Can you imagine, if on September 3rd, they say, ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has been declared the winner? Donald Trump ."" At first they'll go crazy and then they'll say, ""OK, it's time now to be reasonable."" They will have had it, they will have had it. You know we were coming together as a nation, very interesting. Before the plague came in from China, we were coming together, it was success. Somebody said, ""What's going to bring you together?"" And it was. We were coming together. I was starting to get calls from Democrats that, frankly, we didn't speak much, and I was starting to get calls, and then all of a sudden we saw the plague pour in and we saw what was happening and it really stopped things. But success was getting very, very close to bringing us all together, and then we had to say, ""Let's take a timeout, we've got to fix this mess and we did and now we're coming back strong. But success brings us together and it was happening and then we got that terrible situation happened and we'll never forget it. Biden and his party tried to lock law-abiding Americans into their homes while they encourage rioters and vandals rampaging through all, in all cases, Democrat-run cities. You know, Republican-run cities are doing very well, I hope you know that. And I hope you know like in Minneapolis -- Minneapolis, we were asked to come in, we went in, we took care of that problem in about what, 30 minutes. Unfortunately, they let almost two weeks go by. And if you look at what we just did in Wisconsin, which was so amazing, three days and we went in and, by the way, the U.S. marshals went in to get the killer. And that was the end of that, they got the killer, they got the killer. You know what I'm talking about. And we were going to go into Seattle, the next day, we're all set, all lined up, looking forward to it. We just said we're doing it. I mean, they actually took over a part of the city, and the mayor said, ""This is gonna be a summer of love, right. Where do these people come from? But we're all set to go in. They heard we were going in. We informed them we're going in and they sent their police to do it and we never even had to go in, but we can solve those problems in a matter of, literally, minutes.  Thank you. Don't say that. I'll start to cry that wouldn't be good for my image. We don't want it, you don't want to see me cry. I'll start to cry. You know, one of the fake news broadcasters -- because this happened the other day, we had a tremendous crowd like -- like this. I mean, we had a tremendous crowd in North Carolina. They started chanting, ""We love you, we love you, we love you!"" and you know, it's incredible. They said, ""With all the years that they've been covering Presidential elections, they've never heard that chant, that we love you. No, it's very nice. No, they've never heard it. True. You know, now they all say -- now they all say -- they'll say, ""He misrepresented. 18 years ago there was a rally held by somebody, and we heard the words from two people that we love you, sir."" Now, this is what we're dealing with. And by the way. I look at a lot of people that -- look at this. These people back there they can't even get in. Thank you, Michigan. Thank you. It's really nice to be with you. As President, I will always support the heroes of law enforcement. I was very honored to receive the endorsement of the Police Officers Association of Michigan. Where are they? Where are they? They're here someplace. Where are they? Thank you, fellas, that's really, nice. I'll tell you, that's an honor. I have to be honest. I got it from Florida, Texas, Ohio, North Carolina, South Car -- but Michigan is Michigan. Thank you. I don't think there's any law enforcement officer that is against us. What is our poll number? Ninety-nine. I know they had 365,000 at one group and they got a unanimous vote. I said, ""That's pretty good."" How can you go the other way? You people are fantastic and we love you. Thank you. That's great. Thank you very much appreciate it. Biden says he wants to protect Black lives, but his radical platform will cut short the lives of thousands of young African-American citizens. Thousands. The murder rate in Democrat-run cities like Chicago, Baltimore, New York, so many others is higher than in Afghanistan, yet Biden supports imposing these failed policies nationwide. You will have crime like you've never seen before. You'll have crime like you've never seen. Last week, Joe Biden proudly accepted the endorsement of the pro-criminal Portland district attorney, who has a policy of releasing rioters, criminals, and violent extremists without charge. Biden's plan, and every time I say Biden's plan, it's not his plan, it's the people that tell him what they're going to do, so please understand. I just don't want to say that every time I mention his name. So, it should say the people that control Biden's plan, is to appease domestic terrorists. My plan is to arrest them, to lock them up. If Joe Biden is elected, far-left lunatics won't just be running failed Democrat city. They'll be running the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, and the United States Supreme Court, and we can't let that happen. No city town or suburb will be safe. On November 3rd, your vote will save America. Remember, it's the most important election we've ever had. So, I'm joined tonight by some great warriors that have really helped me a lot in Washington with the fake impeachment, the impeachment hoax. The Russia, Russia, Russia hoax. Somebody said Russia's coming up again. Adam Schiff said, ""We'd like to find out about."" I said, ""What about China? What about other countries? It's always Russia."" Russia, Russia, they're at it again. I want to just thank these guys because these were real warriors for all of us. They love your state and they love our country, Congressman Jack Bergman. Great job, Jack. John Mulliner. Thank you, John. Great. Great going, John. He's a tough cookie. And Tim Walberg. Tim, thank you. Great job. What great people. And I talked about him a little while before, I could talk about him all night, he's a star, he's gonna be a future star. You know we have a very much different party than we had four years ago. We're now the party of the workers, we're the party of a lot of different things now, but we weren't really considered the party of the workers, certainly not anymore. Remember this: we're the party of Abraham Lincoln. A lot of people forget that. Honestly. Remember when they used to say, ""He doesn't act Presidential."" and I used to say, ""It's so easy to be Presidential."" I'd only have about 10 or 15 people here, you'd be bored, but remember I used to do that but I'd always say I couldn't be more Presidential than any President in our history, except for the possibility of Abraham Lincoln when he wears his hat comfortably. Tough to beat. That's tough to beat, John James. But seriously, if you want to be well represented, you know, your current senator, I don't even know this guy. I don't even know this guy, nobody does. they don't know who he is, they don't even know. He comes into the office. I say, ""Who is that guy?"" I know every senator, Democrat, Republican. I don't know this guy. I know your other Senator I can tell by her hair, she's got interesting hair. You know. But that was John's first crack. He learned a lot and frankly -- and I mean this -- if he had more support from the Republican Party, he would have won that race. He would have. But this guy Peters, right, Peters -- I say, ""Who's Peters?"" Nobody knows him, he doesn't do anything. I really -- Mean, look. I -- We're going to end this, but I have to tell you, John James can be so great. He loves this whole -- He loves our country. He's been -- he's been educated at the highest level. He was always the top at everything he's ever done. And this is what he has and I'll be honest with you, John. I think I can tell this story. John -- and I were thinking about John. I was thinking about John more than myself, because I know talent, and I said, ""You know, John, you can run for a certain House seat."" Right. ""And you're guaranteed to win. You can run for another House seat. It'll be a tough race but you're going to win or you can have a tough race against somebody that nobody ever heard of."" It's like a habit that they press that particular trigger. But that's a tough race. So you can be an absolute congressman or you can take a shot at this one. He said, ""Sir, I can do more of the Senate than I can do in the House."" and that was his decision. Right. It took a lot of guts. So, John, I'm with you, you have my total and complete endorsement. You have everything I can do. Everything I can do, we will do for you. And I really believe you're going to make it. You're -- you're running against somebody that is just ridiculous . It's ridiculous! Don't do it. Also with us, are some other great candidates and people that are going to do a tremendous job helping our congressmen. Paul Junge. Where's Paul Junge? Paul, thank you. Good luck. I heard you're doing well, Paul. Paul Junge. Lisa McLain. Lisa? Great job. It's going well. And Eric Esshaki. Thank you, Eric. Good Luck. Good luck. We're going to be out here helping you too. We're going to be out here. I hope John doesn't even need help, but we're going to help John too. We're going to help all of you, all right? We're going to be doing it. Thank you. Also with you is RNC chairwoman. You know, she was the head of the whole state and she kept calling me back, back. ""Sir, one more speech you're going to win Michigan."" Hadn't been won in decades. One more speech, sir, you're going to win Michigan. I said, ""Rhonda, I'm coming in one more time, but that's it."" I said, ""That woman is the most aggressive person I've ever met."" She said, ""I'm telling you, sir, one more speech."" I said I'll do it one more time, but that's it."" About a day after I got back, I said I just got back from Michigan. It was wonderful. I get a call from Rhonda McDaniel and she goes, ""Sir, could you come in tomorrow for another speech?"" Well, whatever happens, she's the one that got me here at midnight -- on. She is. So when it came time to pick in the head of the RNC, you know as President, you have a couple of things to say about it, right. I said, ""Who's that woman that kept getting me back to Michigan, boy, oh boy, she'll be great. Rhonda McDaniel. And somebody is doing a fantastic job and tells us we're really pretty far ahead, maybe way ahead. You know they had a poll. I think it was a Gallup poll. They said 62% of the people are lying about their poll. Now, they're only lying having to do with my -- and I don't know if I'm supposed to be insulted by that or not but we'll take it. But we can have a very big win and look, no President has done for Michigan what President Trump has done for Michigan and you're going to remember that and I'm going to remember Michigan. Michigan GOP Chair Laura Cox. Right. Thank you. Great job, great job. Thank you. Thank you very much.Thanks, Laura. We spent the last four years reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years. Forty-seven years of bad votes. After the last administration nearly killed the U.S. auto industry, I saved the U.S. auto industry. Joe Biden supported the disastrous Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for American auto jobs. I withdrew from the TPP, my first week in office, that was so easy, that was so easy. You wouldn't have been making cars. You would have been buying cars from foreign lands. We have enough of that. Biden supported the horrendous South Korea deal that would have wiped out U.S. production of the pick-up truck, which is the most -- The pickup truck is the most profitable thing the auto industry makes. You know why? We have something called the chicken tax. Does anyone know what I'm talking about? The chicken tax. It's a tariff of 25% and it keeps other countries out of here and it expired, and South Korea didn't want to do it, but they did it. We got it right back and we put it on for a long time and now you're making -- but remember this, go check it out, the chicken tax. I'll tell you why someday at another meeting why they call it that. Maybe you don't want to know about it. But we're keeping those small trucks and we're keeping our whole industry good and we're expanding our autos now, our cars, and we're doing a great job of it. I want to thank everybody doing a great job. And by the way, many other things in Michigan. Biden supported the outrageous fuel economy standards that have hammered the auto industry, and I reversed that rule, I actually reversed it and it helped millions of families be able to afford a car. The United States lost 500 auto and auto parts factories under the Obama-Biden disaster. Before the virus, my administration ended over 200 new auto and auto parts plants. In 2007, how about 200? I didn't know that. 200. 200. I thought it was a little less than that. Wait. I went to see that again, 200, it says 200, do you believe it? That's a lot. You know I have a choice between teleprompter and freelance. I hate to say the freelance is always a hell of a lot better. If you remember, and you remember well. I actually got elected because a freelance we didn't have teleprompters. There were no teleprompters. But think of that 200, we're talking about 200 plants. I thought it was a much lower number and I thought you should put me in office based on a much lower number, 200, you have no choice. Yesterday, Biden was in Michigan. He said, ""I'd better, get out of the basement. This guy is starting to do very well."" Lying about his lifetime of cold-hearted globalist betrayals. Biden chipped in NAFTA, perhaps the worst trade deal in the history of our country. And he continued to embrace and promote NAFTA for decades. And I told you, he just said it was not as good as the deal I made. I can't believe. Oh, they've given him hell tonight. They're giving him hell. What did you say that for? Boy, oh boy. Yeah, hiding, 'Joe Hiden'. Look, you know, this doesn't sound nice, I'll say it and they'll criticize for it, you watch. I have the distinct pleasure of running against the worst Presidential candidate in the history of Presidential politics. I really believe that. Can you imagine if I lost to him? I'd have to say, ""I lost to the worst candidate ever put up."" Don't do that to me, Michigan.  Don't do that. Biden supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization which, by the way, was a disaster. China was flatlining for years and years and decades and it got into this World Trade Organization with all sorts of advantages. Just a terrible, terrible situation took place and that's when China became a big, powerful, economic power. But if you look at the numbers just before the plague, now the numbers are different. We were going up, up, up. We were beating them like a drum, they weren't even close. We were gaining, gaining. gaining. We were No.1 by far. You know, for years, I've heard that in 2019, China was going to surpass us. Well, in 2019, we gained a lot of them. We were doing great. We were doing great and we'll be doing even better next year, you watch. Yesterday, it was revealed that a fund partly owned by Joe Biden's son, 'Where's Hunter'. See his first name -- I now name his first name is Where. Where's Hunter. He must be a brilliant guy because with no experience he's taken more money from more countries. He had no job and then it became rich, but Where's Hunter facilitated the sale of a Michigan automotive company to a leading Chinese military Defense contractor. Does anyone know that China's military got yet another piece of American manufacturing  and the Biden family made a lot of money on it a lot of money on it? A lot of money What about Ukraine? He got $183,000 a month, $3 million upfront, and he had no experience with energy, working for an energy company, by the way. What's your experience. Hunter, what's your experience with energy, ""I don't have any."" ""OK, we'll pay you $183,000 a month, and we'll give you an upfront payment hunter of $3 million. Will that be satisfactory?"" He goes, ""Yes. I'll take it."" Would anybody here not take that deal? Anybody? Please raise your head. This is one guy, right. You must be a pretty rich guy. If Biden's elected China will own America. Washington vultures like Biden and others ripped apart entire towns all across your state. Michigan lost half of all manufacturing jobs after the trade deals that Biden supported and, by the way, I don't know if any -- but does anybody remember, like 12 years ago, long before I thought about running for President when I enjoyed my life, I had the greatest life. Where would we like to go? Let's go to Monte Carlo this weekend. Let's go. No, I had a great life, but I was honored. I was doing very well. I was honored and Michigan. Does every -- Anybody know that? I was given Man of the Year award by somebody and I came in and I spent like 45 minutes talking about how you've been ripped off. How old your auto companies are leaving and going to Mexico and, by the way, to Canada to but how they're all leaving and going to Mexico and Canada. I spent the whole time talking about it. I said -- at the end, I felt embarrassed. I said, ""I hope I haven't insulted the state too much, but why do you let this happen? I stopped it. I stopped it. Won't be happening, it won't be happening. It's not going to happen anymore. Biden took a sledgehammer to your state. Earlier this year, I kept my promise to Michigan workers when we ended the NAFTA nightmare that everybody said was impossible to end and when we signed that brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement into law. The USMCA includes powerful wage protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs right here in Michigan. Now, they have a tremendous disincentive to leave Michigan, fire all of our workers, go to Mexico or Canada, make the car or the product, send it in here without tariffs, we end up with closed factories, no job, and no taxes. That's not happening anymore, that's not happening. Bu"
"Thank you very much. It's a great honor to be in North Carolina. We had great, great luck and great people backing us in North Carolina. And I'm thrilled to be in Winston-Salem with thousands of loyal, hard-working American patriots, you are great people. Great people. I don't know how many people here, but there's a lot. We said: let's keep it down, they didn't do too good a job, but that's good, right. That's good. Now, these crowds, I tell you, it's beyond what we had in terms of enthusiasm, beyond what we had four years ago in 2016, and that was a record enthusiasm. We are breaking that record by a lot. This is the most important election we've ever had. Fifty-six days from now we're going to win North Carolina, we're going to win four more years in the White House. This is a choice and I must say this is a choice for many, many decades. I don't think you have a bigger difference and maybe you've never had a bigger difference. This is the American dream and the other, I don't want to say it because I'll get myself in trouble with the fake news back there, but the other is a basic disaster for our country. Joe Biden devoted his career to offshoring your jobs, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless foreign wars, along with some of his other friends, and surrendering our children's future to countries like China. Remember this, very simple to remember: if Biden wins, China wins, it's as simple as that. So you have a situation where we built the greatest economy in the history of the world. We were forced to close it because of the China plague that came in, and now we've opened it, and by the way, your state should be open. Your state should be open. You're to vote for Dan Forest. Any governor that does that, and even if you look statistically, it's you it's Michigan, it's a couple of others, they're closed. New York, look -- look what they're doing in New York, what they're doing to our beautiful New York. Oh, it's so sad, but you just take a look at what's going on in North Carolina, they want to open, they want to open, they want to open in Michigan so badly. They want to open, they want to have football, they want to have their schools open, and it's a shame what's going on. And I'll tell you what, on November 4th, every one of those states will be open, they're doing it for political reasons. Now, they're doing it for political reasons. They think by hurting the economy, by keeping all these store owners and all these people that work in shops and stores and building's offices. They think by keeping them and hurting them, you're hurting the economy. Our economy is doing phenomenally well. And it's not only is it a V, it's a super V. You see what's happened. We just had a jobs number come out, 1.4 million. It's down to 8.4%, nobody thought that, 8.4. So we had the greatest economy, we closed it up and now we're opening it up and your state to go with it, we're opening it up and we will have a great third quarter. It's going to be announced, by the way, just before the election, but we're going to have a great third quarter. We have unbelievable retail numbers, unbelievable numbers all over, and this is that super V. But next year is going to be one of the greatest years in the history of our country economically, and unless the wrong person gets in and quadruples everybody's taxes, in which case you will see a depression, the likes of which you haven't seen and remember this: if Biden Wins, the violent mobs, you see these mobs all over the place, they're Biden people, they're Biden states and cities, they're Democrat states. If they win, the mobs win. You see these guys, they go around saying, ""Yeah, I want you a meal. Give me that food. Give me the..."" A woman sitting there, she wants to eat and they come they grab her food. They grab her drink, nobody's ever seen stuff like this. This is all that ideology, we're not going to let it happen, we're not going to let it happen. And you know in Portland, you see what happened last night? They arrested over 50 people the first time. We said, either do it or we're going in. We're going to have to go in. Do it. Let us go in, we're saying -- I spoke to the governor of Oregon the other day. Let us go in, I said, let us go in. We'll straighten it out in less than a half an hour. Now the U.S. marshals did go in to take care of that. One guy, who killed somebody, you saw that. He killed a young man in the middle of the street violently. He had other charges against him. And I put out, ""When is he going to be arrested?"", and they went in about 15 minutes later. And I'll tell you what, our federal government is so ready to go. All they have to do is call us, it'll all be solved very quickly. They have to call us, but all of these places are Democrat-run places. Radical left-run places. They don't know what the hell they're doing. If Biden wins, the rioters, arsonists, and anarchists win. He said the other day, ""Well, you know if I win, that doesn't mean that's going to stop."" He doesn't -- he will never stop. If they win, it's not going to happen hopefully, but if the -- 'cause this is not like a second-place crowd, let's face it. And are you seeing -- are you seeing the -- are you seeing all the polls numbers are coming out? That's why he left. Finally, he left his basement. He said, ""We got problems."" I don't think he knows that, but the people that manage him know it. They understand it, he doesn't. So I'm running for re-election to keep jobs at home, to put violent criminals behind bars, and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China and other countries because if we win, America wins, you know that, you've seen that, you've seen what we've done. Over the last three and a half years we've secured America's borders, fix our broken trade deals, and they were broken like you've never seen. They weren't even broken, they were bad, they were bad from day one. Rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military, obliterated the ISIS caliphate, 100%. Fact, I got it down to 98%. Remember a year and a half ago, I got it down to 98 and they all said, ""No, no, it's got to be a hundred. I said somebody else could finish, we want to get home. They said, ""No, you got to finish it."" So we took another two months, we finished it and we're bringing them home, we're bringing them home. These great, great warriors, but people don't like it when I say that. Secured American energy independence and built the greatest economy in the history of the world, and now we are very simply -- we're doing it again and we're on track to have, as I said, the best year we've ever had next year, you just had the best year. You just had the best year in the history of your state last year. We've created a record-breaking 10.6 million jobs in the last four months. Next year will be the single greatest economic year in the history of our country and probably in the history of your state if your governor ever opens up, but hopefully, you're going to have Dan Forest, you're not going to have to worry about it. But if Sleepy Joe Biden takes power, the economy will collapse, he won't even know the difference. ""How's the economy?"", ""Not good, sir, we're in a depression."" ""Oh, we are? What's that?"" Joe Biden who spent 47 years shipping North Carolina jobs to China and other countries, you know that. And I've spent the last four years bringing jobs back to our country. We never had so many jobs. We're up to 160 million jobs. We would never anywhere close. We got up to 160 million and we would never anywhere close to that. Here in North Carolina, voting is already underway. On November 3rd, Americans will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity or whether we allow the same left-wing extremists that have no idea what they're doing to burn down buildings or take control of government, set fire to a whole country. You know when they started knocking down the monuments and statues a few months ago, right. I signed a very strong executive order. You want to knock them down, that's fine, but you go to jail for 10 years. It was amazing. It was amazing how that stopped, and then they said, ""Well, we'll do it easily, we'll do it through the process."" because you know they don't want to spend 10 years. You know they'd look at it, they'd say, not worth it. Ten years is too much, but the D.C. committee, did you see about that? They want to change the name of the Washington Monument, they want to get rid of the Lincoln Monument, Jefferson monument. Now we're talking the big stuff, they finally hit the big time, took them a while to get there, but they said that was going to happen. Don't worry about it. You don't have a thing to worry about. If our foreign adversaries were devising a scheme to cripple America, they could hardly do better than the Biden-Kamala Harris, Kamala. Remember Kamala? She started at 15, she was supposed to win. Problem was she went from 15 to 14, to 12, to 10, to seven, to fourth, it's like a free fall. You know what, people don't like her. Nobody likes her. She could never be the first woman President. She could never be. That'll be an insult to our country. Biden wants to impose a $4 trillion tax hike, a ban on American energy, eliminate America's borders, confiscate your guns. He wants to get rid of your second amendment, appoint -- We're going to be appointing very pro-crime judges, but they want to destroy your suburbs. He wanted -- You know that. You know the rule, the regulation that I just terminated. They want to build low-income projects in the suburbs, they've been doing it, they've been destroying suburbs, we're not doing it anymore. Somebody said, suburban women, how is Trump doing? But do you remember last time too? They said women don't like Trump. I said, ""I think they do. I think they do."" Right? They say women don't, and then we did great with women. You remember that great -- Was that one of the greatest evenings ever? Four years ago. That was one of the greatest. But one of the things they did, first of all, we did much better, now we're doing really well. African-American vote much better, Hispanic vote much better. ""He did better with African-Americans than we thought, he did better with Hispanics than we thought, he did better with Asians than we thought, he did really well with women. What's this all about?"" You know, ladies and gentlemen. Then they said, ""Donald Trump is projected the winner of 2016. Remember that evening? Was that the craziest? That was -- That was the craziest thing and they thought -- I think they didn't think it. But I'll tell you what, anything we had then, we have much more now. They don't understand -- they do understand it. They do, right? They understand it. Look at that beautiful dress. And she wears that dress right through the middle of Hollywood, and everyone says thank you very much. Beautiful. Like it. But they want to indoctrinate your children and Implement a ruinous shutdown of the United States economy again. Biden said the other day, ""Well, if the experts told me."" We're not shutting it down again, we don't have to. We learned about the disease. We did the right thing. We saved millions of lives, people don't realize we saved millions of lives and hundreds of thousands of lives by not letting China. We put a ban on China. Heavily infected. And Biden was against it. Three months later, he said, ""He did the right thing, I have to admit."" It's clear why both China and the flag-burning rioters want Biden to win. They know his policies will be the downfall of America and they know my policies will lift America to new heights of national greatness like we've never seen before. That's what's happening, that's what's happening. And never forget they're coming after me because I'm fighting for you. There's a lot of truth in that one. And they do come after me. They do come after me. They have more things to say about me every day and something they said, ""You don't see the plane where it is?"" ""Sir, would you like to take the car?"" I say why. I'm saying why. ""Well, I heard you had a limp."" ""I do? I don't know about a limp. I don't have a limp."" Hey, someday, I'm going to have a limp, I'll let you know when, you'll see it. Now, they make this stuff up, they make it up, they make stuff, it's called disinformation, they give a phony deal out. They did it two days ago with the military. There's nobody loves the military more than me. So they make -- they make -- You know, I was very lucky though, I had 15 incredible American patriots that came by and they said he never said that we were -- they were there, they were there but they make up stories, horrible stories. Many, many -- Hey, look. Look at last time, the fake dirty dossier was all made up. And frankly, if the shoe was on the other foot, right, if it was on the other foot, you'd have many people -- 20, 25 people right now in jail for two years and they'd be there for 50 years because they got caught spying on our campaign and it's treason or whatever else you want to call it, and it's a disgrace that it's taken this long. It's a disgrace that it's taken this long. And let me just tell you a little secret. Obama got caught and so did Sleepy Joe Biden. Remember, Biden was sitting in the room saying, ""Why don't you use the Logan Act on General Flynn?"" Look at General Flynn, what he's going through for years. If that were ever reversed, I'm telling you, you'd have many people in jail for many, many years that it would have started two years ago. It's a disgrace, but let's see what happens. Biden's a globalist sellout who spent his career laying waste to American communities, and you know he talks about like well he's going to do this, he's going to -- He doesn't have any idea, he has no clue. He's going to do this. He's been there for 47 years and you know he just really left. You know, he left three and a half four years ago, right. So he just left, but he's been there for 47 years. I'm going to do this. You know after 47 years he's had a change of heart. This is the craziest election. This is the cra- Look, somebody said: ""What's the difference between Crooked Hillary Clinton and Slow Joe?"" So the difference is the following: she's meaner, probably not as nice. I don't know you can't get any worse than her. What you think? But the big difference is she's smarter than he is. OK. He's a nicer person, but he's not smart. He never was. Not in primetime, and certainly not now. The Washington vultures ripped apart our towns in exchange for his party's nomination. Biden has now formed an unholy alliance with the most extreme and dangerous elements of the radical left. You know that. With Crazy Bernie and everyone. And by the way, you know, he's further left than Crazy Bernie? Kamala. Kamala. Kamala. You remember, she left the race. Sort of interesting that they picked her because, in theory, they should be able to win California. I don't know. Maybe we'll make a play for that one too. But they picked somebody from California. I don't -- I don't quite get it. But you always pick somebody that's hot, that's going up in the polls, right, going up. Frankly, I'm not sure. I don't think I've ever said this, but probably Hillary should have picked Bernie Sanders to be her running mate, right, because you know as crazy as it sounds, he was hot. He gave her a hell of a fight. A lot of people think he won and it got taken away. One thing about Bernie's, the greatest loser I've ever seen because look, any children here, no, not too many, but they've heard it before. He got screwed four years ago and he got screwed again. You know, Biden got the nomination right, he got the nomination, but if Biden would have sat back and if Elizabeth Warren, Pocahontas, you remember Pocahontas? Right, she finally faded, she faded badly, but if she would have dropped out on Super Tuesday, prior to Super Tuesday, Bernie would have been the nominee, and I don't know who I'd rather run against. One is super left, the other one's had to become super left. One is competent, the other one is only half-competent now and heading south. He's half -- half competent and heading south rapidly, but the globalists and the lefties make natural partners because they're united by their contempt for the American middle class in the truest sense. That's why powerful corporations and far-left politicians have both sided with radical demonstrated over -- If you look at that, it's over the law-abiding areas that we have -- You know, Republican cities and towns are doing great, we're doing great and we don't have crime and we don't have this violence. Chicago, over the weekend, many people killed, many people shot, shot. They were actually shot and killed. New York, the same thing. New York's gone through the roof. They're up 300% in certain categories. And you say, ""What's happening?"" And we want to send him in so badly. Joe Biden and his party spent the entire summer cheering on the rioters, rampaging through Democrat-run cities falsely, labeling them as peaceful protesters. And you know we call you peaceful protesters. You know why? Because they have rules in these Democrat-run states that if you're campaigning you can't have more than five people, they did that for me. If you're going to church, you can't go to church anymore, you can't go to church. You can't go to church, you can't do anything. You have to stay in your house, but if you're willing to riot running down Main Street, if you're willing to riot and stand on top of each other's face and do whatever the hell you want to do, you're allowed to do that because you're considered a peaceful protestor, so we decided to call all our rallies peaceful protests. OK. Instead of standing up to the far-left rioters, Biden condemns law enforcement and condemns America. Didn't even mention the words that we love and respect law and order. You know they all tell me, even my people, my very brilliant consultants, who I don't listen to too much, maybe I should, ""Sir, please don't say law and order, that's too tough."" Now, in the meantime, you look at these streets, people -- Crazy. They say -- Say, law and order, but with safety and was -- I said, ""Look, people get it, it's just law and order. Is that OK?"" Law. We want law and order. They say, ""Law and order and safety, sir. Could you add the word safety? Because it's -- "", I said, I don't want to add. It's sort of obvious, right? We want law, we want order. Biden is fueling the violence with his relentless attacks on police and his constant slander that America is racist. By the way, I've gotten the support of almost every police group in the country. Sheriffs in Florida, Ohio, Texas, North Carolina, all over the country. But did you notice he's starting to talk a little bit tougher now? Did you notice that? He sees what's going on. His polls are dropping like a rock and he sees what's going on. Now he's starting to say, ""Now we need a law and order."" No, he didn't say that, did he? Kid. He'll never get to say that. Can't say that because then it lose the whole left. And let me tell you, the left is running that party. You take a look. You don't want to be dealing with the left. These people are stone-cold crazy, you don't want to be dealing. Meanwhile, Biden, he doesn't say a word about the thousands of African-Americans who are murdered each year as a result of violent crime in Democrat-controlled cities, they're murdered by the thousands and they'd never ever mention it. My heart is with the hardworking patriots of all backgrounds who build up our communities, not the violent criminals and extremists and agitators and anarchy who burned them down. Next time you see video of screaming far-left maniacs shouting wildly at peaceful Americans, remember this: these are Biden supporters. and if he wins, they will be in charge of your government. As sure as you're sitting there, you'll be taking your monuments down, you'll be taking your statues down. I'm not kidding, you'll be taking him down. You have to look at the D.C. report. I'm just telling you, go get it. You wouldn't even believe it, it's too crazy to even talk about, but we're never going to give him a chance to do it. We're never giving him a chance. We're going to win, we're going to win big. This is a very important state- And by the way, and by the way, when they send out their millions and millions of unsolicited ballots. When you get a ballot, say, ""Well, I wanted to go and vote, darling. I wanted to go and vote. Why are they sending met hose ballots?"" There's something really fi -- The only way we lose North Carolina and a couple of others like Nevada, we're doing great there. Now the governor decides we're doing so well, that they're going to send out unsolicited, you have solicited and unsolicited. They're going to send out millions of ballots to you, people that never really thought in terms of it. Now, sometimes you'll ask for a ballot, that's a solicited ballot. It's OK, you have to go through a process, you have to sign a form, you get it. Sending out millions of unsolicited ballots. Make sure you send the ballot in and then go to your polling place and make sure it counts, make sure it counts. Because the only way they can win is by doing very bad things, that's the only way. Look at this. You know if Joe Biden came here and made a cry -- This is not the most convenient place, you know, it's an airport. Hi, fellas. They did a good job guiding the plane. They're great, they're great. No, really, this is an airport. If he were -- I -- Honestly, I really -- If he had 200 people, I think, would be a lot. I really mean -- You ever see the gyms with the circles? That's his crowd. If he had 200 people. I was told we have 15,000 people here tonight. As far as the eye can see, but they'll correct it. They'll say, ""He's wrong. It was 14,500, he's misrepresent-. He's misrepresenting. Now I was told we have 15,000 and we're in the middle of an airport someplace, it's a wonderful thing. And you know I actually think, I don't know if you agree. So we go to the arenas but because of China. The arenas aren't working out too well, right. You can't really do that anymore for a while, but we are rounding the turn. I will tell you, we're rounding the turn on that, but because of that -- So we said, well, because we have the same press. I think we have bigger crowds. Potentially. We were in New Hampshire, the other night, we had to turn away 8,000 people at an airport. We're doing all mostly hangar things because we're outside. Outside is very much different than being inside according to the great doctors, right. But they say it's very much different. So we're doing these and we're doing the outdoors we're doing the hangars. But I really believe that these crowds are bigger than they were four years ago. It's pretty amazing. It's pretty amazing. We started off in New Hampshire. We said, ""Look, let's have a thousand people."" and they had like five or six show up, and they had thousands more that you know we're trying to be nice, but then, eventually we landed. Two weeks ago we landed in New Hampshire and the entire runway was lit up with thousands and thousands of people as the plane was landing, and I mean it's really amazing what's going on all over the country, it's amazing, it's amazing, it's a great thing. More support than we had four years ago, because you know four years ago I said I was going to do this. I was going to cut your taxes. I was going to cut regulations. I was going to get Right To Try. I was going to take care of your vets. I was going to rebuild your military. I was going to do all these things, and you said -- you said, ""I don't know. That's a lot."" You know what? I've actually done more than I promised. Build a wall, build the wall. I've done more. For instance, you never heard me say -- you never heard me say -- you -- A lot of you were at various rallies, you never heard me talking about Space Force. We built a new -- Think of it. A new branch of the United States military, United States Armed Forces called Air Force. I never talked about that. That's something we never talked about. I only figured that one out after I became President because I saw what Russia was doing on what China was doing. I said we have to do the same thing. And if you think that was easy, that was not easy. That was not easy. It was very hard, but what we've done -- You know the wall now is past 300 miles. It's exactly the wall that our great Border Patrol wanted. I was hoping a nice concrete plank for the builders in here. Boom, boom. You put it. ""Sir, we have to be able to see through."" I said, ""All right. Let's go."" Much more expensive. And I said, ""Let's go."" So we're over 300 miles now and we will be finished with it very soon and we have among the safest borders that we've ever had by far and it's a good time to have it too. And you know, Mexico is paying for the wall, just so you understand. They don't say that, they never say it, but we're going to charge a small fee at the border. You know the toll booths. We have toll booths that the -- It's the biggest border in the world in terms of people going across and in terms of industry, believe it or not, the southern border. We're putting a small toll on and maybe we're going to do, something with remittance. That's where people come here, make money and they send it back. So we'll do something and we're going to get all the money that we spent in the mall -- wall. We'll be coming back. So remember, I used to say who's going to pay for it. They'd say Mexico. Right, that's right. That's right. Mexico is going to pay. And what happens if they fight us? Remember that answer? It's going to get 10 feet higher. Remember? What happens if they fight us on the wall? The wall going to get 10 feet higher, but now Mexico and I get along great. In fact, they have 27,000 soldiers along our southern border, protecting us from people coming into our country. Can you imagine that? Twenty-seven thousand. And I did that so that we don't put tariffs on their products coming in too? It's very simple. I said, ""You've got to do it."" and the President has been great, he's a friend of mine, he's doing a very good job, not easy, Mexico's not easy, but he's doing a very good job. But the wall is almost completed and it's a tremendous wall. It's everything that the border patrol people wanted. I get it, gave them everything. I said, ""What else do you want?"" and it's wired for every single thing you could have. Remember the Democrats? ""We don't want a wall, we want drones flying."" Oh, that helps us a lot, drones. So you can watch everybody pour into our country, right? Biden supports cutting police funding and he has pledged to end cash bail. Just last week, Sleepy Joe proudly accepted the endorsement of the pro-criminal, anti-police Portland district attorney, who has a policy of releasing rioters, vandals, criminals, and violent extremists without charge. Now, last night, though, they arrested more than they've ever done because we said you have to. We said you have to. And we told them about, we will federalize them, we'll do whatever you need, and I spoke to the governor. It looks like they're -- Finally, after 107 days like they're finally doing what they're supposed to be doing. But we'll let you know very soon, otherwise, we're going in. The Biden-Bernie manifesto pledges to implement these same policies nationwide. Now, you've got to understand, Bernie's a radical lefty, but not as bad as her but a radical left and I got a lot of Bernie voters. I think 15% last time because they agree with me on trade. They understand that many of these countries, including our so-called allies, are ripping us off, they're ripping us off on trade. I agree with him on that. The difference is, I know how to do something about it. They don't they, don't have a clue. They just know they're being ripped off. And a lot of Bernie people feel that, that's a big point. And they came over and they voted for me instead of Crooked Hillary, which was a very nice thing, we appreciate it. We hope don't lose them because we're really implemented things. You know, we've taken billions and billions and billions of dollars for China -- from China. And China's never given us 10 cents. It's a one-way street with China. They haven't given us. We signed a great trade deal, but the ink wasn't dry when the plague came in. So I view that trade deal as much differently than I did before, much differently. It's a great deal. They -- Just last week, they ordered the biggest order of corn in history. The biggest order of soybeans in history, and I say, huh, just shows you, though, they're smart, very smart. Instead of saying, you know, he's not talking very nicely about us and we're not going to order anymore we're not going to do business, no. Instead, they do the opposite. They give us the biggest orders we've had, our farmers are very happy. Our farmers are very happy. Biggest order of corn, biggest order of beef, biggest order of soybeans. And I gave the farmers $28 billion because that's what you were targeted for by China, and I gave you 28 out of the tariffs and we had tens of billions of dollars leftover which went into the U.S treasury, but nobody's ever done this before. Nobody's ever done this before. With Biden, it's the reverse. His son goes, sits down for 10 minutes with the father, and whoever the hell they sat down with, walks out with $1.5 billion to manage it. You'll make millions of dollars a year, and he has no experience at all. Never happened before. Biden's plan is to appease the domestic cars. My plan is to arrest them. So on November 3rd, America faces a very simple choice. Do what you want, vote for the candidate, backed by violent left-wing rioters If you have to, or do what you want to vote for the candidate backed by the selfless heroes of law enforcement and just about everybody else. Where do you see the numbers? Where do you see the numbers? You know there was a poll that just came out, it was, I think it was Gallup, and it was a weird kind of a poll because it said 62% of the people that are polled are lying. I said that's a big number, right. I think it was 62%. Couple of weeks ago, it came out and their only line, if it's us, because they don't want to be bothered, in other words, they're not lying about Sleepy Joe, they're lying about us, and I don't know if I'm supposed to love that or hate it. I don't know if it's an insult or not, but I will take it. We don't give a damn. But if that's the case we have a virtual landslide going. We have a virtual landslide going. And this would look like it. We're joined tonight by some really great friends of mine, representatives, senators, just some incredible people. People that have really helped me and we have to get them in office. Let's start off with Senator Thom Tillis. Tom. Where is Tom? Thank you. He's been by my side. Thank you, Tom, very much. Representatives, Greg Murphy, Virginia Fox, Mark Walker, Dan Bishop, and Ted Budd, what a group, what a group. Thank you, fellas. They are warriors. Boy, I'll tell you those House guys they were in there. They were fighting for us. We won 96 to nothing, right. When Crazy Nancy impeached us, right. They impeached me for making a phone call that was perfect. It was a perfect call. I'll go down as the only President in history that got impeached for making a absolutely perfect phone call. Thank goodness I had the call because they totally misrepresented what was on the call. If you ever heard the shifty shift get up in Congress and say what I said, if I ever said that it would have been terrible. But you know what? Fortunately, we had really talented people taking down everything word for word. We had to call perfectly and if I didn't have it, somehow, with these people, I guess I'd still be here. If you want to know the truth, but it was a lot easier, but we were 196 to nothing. The Republicans stuck together and Kevin McCarthy has done a fantastic job. He really has. And with the exception of a half a vote from Mitt Romney. You can have him he's not too popular. I want to tell you he's not a very popular guy in Utah, he's not too popular, so he's fifty-two and a half to a half, he's a -- he's a beauty, I'll tell you, that guy. He couldn't get elected dogcatcher in Utah, right. Remember, Utah, they said, ""It's too close to call."" this was before the election, and then they announce ""Utah, the polls are closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Utah."" Do you remember that? Like immediately, I won by a lot and there was some guy running McMuffin, McMuffin, right? McMuffin."
"Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you. So, we begin. Oklahoma, we begin. Thank you, Oklahoma, and thank you to Vice President Mike Pence. We begin -- we begin our campaign.  We begin our campaign and I just want to thank all of you. You are warriors. I've been watching. I've been watching the fake news for weeks now and everything is negative. Don't go, don't come, don't do anything. Today, it was like -- I've never seen anything like it. I've never seen anything like it. You are warriors. Thank you. We had some very bad people outside. We had some very bad people outside. They were doing bad things. But I really do. I appreciate it. We have just a tremendous group of people in Oklahoma and I hear -- I hear from your two great Senators, your new Governor that we're doing very well in Oklahoma. That's the word. That's the word. I stand before you today to declare the silent majority is stronger than ever before. Five months from now, we're going to defeat sleepy Joe Biden. Boy, does he get a pass from these people, huh? We're going to stop the radical left. We're going to build a future of safety and opportunity for Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed. Republicans are the party of liberty, equality, and justice for all. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln and we are the party of law and order. Think of what we've done. We will have close to 300 federal judges appointed and approved by the end of my first time. That's an all-time record. That's an all-time record. I've always heard how important judges are. Now we know how important they are. Think of that, over 300, around 300 by the end of the term. And when we have another four years, we're going to have a big, big percentage of the total number. Very important, November 3rd and two great Supreme Court judges. So, we have two justices of the Supreme Court. Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, they're great. They are -- they're great. We have two and we could get a few more. Yeah. We could get a few.  We've spent over $2 trillion to completely rebuild the unmatched strength and power of the United States military  and all of that incredible equipment, whether it's submarines or missiles or rockets or jet fighters, bombers, it's all built in the USA.   We passed VA Choice. Thank you very much, Jim. Where's my Senator? Jim Inhofe, you better vote for him. He's running, he's great. But we'll get to him and James Lankford in a second. Two great Senators, you have two great Senators. So we passed VA Choice. So, if you're a veteran for years and years, they've wanted to do it for almost 50 years. We got it done, we get a lot of things done. And so, if you're a veteran and you have to wait in line for one week, two weeks, three weeks, five weeks, seven weeks, two months. What happens is you go outside, you get a private doctor, you get fixed up, and they pay your bill. We take care of the bill, we take care of the bill and you get immediate service. It's never happened before and our approval rating at the VA is now 91%. That's how good it is. Never been anywhere near that number, never been anywhere near that number. And VA Accountability, we've got a lot of bad people in the VA. People that didn't love our vets, people that were sadistic, people that stole -- a lot of bad people. You couldn't get rid of them because they were, let's say, it could be unions or it could be civil service, right? Let's say, let's just say. And so, you couldn't get it done. That was another one. For decades and decades they wanted to get it changed and I got it done with those people and your Congressman. Your Congressman who I'm going to introduce. VA Accountability and now somebody treats our veterans badly and we look at them, and why do we say? We say, you're fired. Get out, right? Get out. They got rid of a lot of bad people that were there for a long time. Sort of like me in Washington draining the swamp. I never knew it was so deep but it's happening. It's happening. I never knew it was so deep. It's deep and thick and a lot of bad characters. Thank you. We're lowering the price of prescription drugs, making our allies pay their fair share. They get a big bargain on drug prices and enacting fair trade deals that finally, finally after all these years put America first. I've been saying it for a long time. We passed the largest tax cuts in the history of our country. The Democrats want to raise your taxes, tell me about that, tell me about that. I guess I'm old fashioned, you know, all my life, all my life. I heard politicians want to lower taxes, not raise it. If you could lower them, you couldn't lose. The Democrats want to substantially raise your taxes. How do you figure that? How do you figure that? And regulation cuts, we passed more regulation cuts than any administration in the history of our country. And with the help of our great energy workers, many of them come from the great State of Oklahoma. Do you ever notice that Biden -- no, do you ever notice that Biden oftentimes gets the state wrong? He's in Iowa and he says, it's good to be in Idaho. No, no, you're in Iowa. He's in New Hampshire and he says, it's great to be in Ohio. No, no, no, you're in New Hampshire. That happens to him all the time. It hasn't happened to me yet. You know, when that happens, there's nothing you can do to make up for it. You might as well just walk off the stage because the speech is a disaster. True. Right? Right? But we just turned the United States into the dominant energy superpower of the world, of the world. And because of the Chinese virus, what happened about three months ago, it looked like we were in big trouble and we were -- and I got it back together. I called Russia. I called, right? I called Russia. I called Saudi Arabia, and believe it or not, I called Mexico. Mexico was a little bit tough. That's called OPEC+. Did you ever hear of OPEC+? That's OPEC plus, plus and we got them to do the right thing, and we have our energy back to almost $40 a barrel, meaning you have an energy business again. Almost $40 a barrel, a couple of months ago it was zero and we were going to lose 10 million energy jobs, 10 million jobs. So, Texas and Oklahoma and North Dakota and many other states would have been hurt. Now, you think you're going to be hurt there, you try putting AOC in charge of your energy. That will make the pandemic look like child's play to the people in energy. She has one problem, it's called petroleum. No President or administration has done more in the first three and a half years than the Trump administration. Not even here, nobody. Our incredible success in rebuilding America stands in stark contrast to the extremism and destruction and violence of the radical left. We just saw it outside. We just saw it outside. You saw these thugs that came along. These people call them protesters, isn't it beautiful? It's so beautiful. No, they're so wonderful. They call them the Boston Tea Party. That's so wonderful. Yeah, they call them -- do you ever watch fake news CNN? Do you ever watch? Where'd they go? How about the CNN anchor, how about the CNN anchor, you know, did a little shaved job in the head, which is fine, and he's standing in front of a building saying, things are very peaceful here -- and the building is, it looks like the biggest fire I've ever seen. The whole town is burning. It looks -- it's like the biggest fire in Houston. Things are very good here. Anderson, I think it's great. I think it's great. These are wonderful people, Anderson. Did you ever see that? It looked like the world was coming to an end. And you know, we did something in Minneapolis after watching the three or four days. I called and said, you got to get out, you can't protect yourselves. I got them to take 8,000 National Guardsmen and in one hour it all ended and they rode through the next three weeks with no problem, and we did the same thing in other cities, but how about Seattle? They're not good. So, they take over a big chunk of a city called Seattle. I mean, we're not talking about some little place. We're talking about Seattle. Have you ever been to Seattle? They took over a big chunk and the Governor who's a radical left, all of these places I talk about are Democrat. You know that, every one of them, every one of them. And I have an offer out, I said, anytime you want, we'll come in, we'll straighten it out in one hour or less. Now, I may be wrong but it's probably better for us to just watch that disaster.  I flew in with some of our great Congressmen who I'm going to introduce in a second, and I said to them, Congressman, what do you think? I can straighten it out fast. Should we just go in? No, sir. Let it simmer for a little while. Let people see what radical left democrats will do to our country, right?  But Americans have watch left-wing radicals burn down buildings, loot businesses, destroy private property injure hundreds of dedicated police officers. These police officers, they get injured, they don't complain. They're incredible. And injure thousands upon thousands of people, only to hear the radical fake news say, what a beautiful rally it was. And they never talk about COVID. They don't talk about -- when you see 25,000 people walking down Fifth Avenue or walking down a street of a Democrat-run city. You never hear them saying, they're not wearing their mask. You don't hear them say, as they're breaking windows and running in. And then, when I say, the looters, the anarchists, the agitators, they'll say, what a terrible thing for a President to say.  What a terrible thing, but you don't hear them talking about COVID, COVID. To be specific, COVID-19, That name gets further and further away from China as opposed to calling it the Chinese virus.  And despite the fact that we -- I have done a phenomenal job with it. I shut down the United States to a very heavily infected, but all people from China in late January, which is months earlier than other people would have done it, if they would have done it at all. I saved hundreds of thousands of lives. We don't ever get even a mention. Then, I closed it down to Europe early, closed it down because I saw what was happening. And by the way, most people said, don't do it, don't do it. We saved hundreds of thousands of lives and all we do is get hit on like we're terrible. And what we've done with the ventilators and with the medical equipment and with testing -- you know, testing is a double edged sword. We've tested now 25 million people. It's probably 20 million people more than anybody else. Germany's done a lot, South Korea's done a lot. They call me, they say the job you're doing -- here's the bad part, when you test of -- when you do testing to that extent, you're going to find more people, you're going to find more cases. So, I said to my people slow the testing down, please. They test and they test. We had tests that people don't know what's going on. We got tests. We got another one over here, the young man's 10 years old. He's got the sniffles. He's recover in about 15 minutes. That's the case. That's the case. I was actually with a very nice man, a very good man. Even though he's very liberal, the Governor of New Jersey, right? Do you know him? Now, listen. He said to me something that's amazing. New Jersey was very heavily hit, very hard hit, thousands of people. He said, with thousands of people that died, thousands of people, there was only one person that died under the age of 18, would you believe that? Which tells me one thing, that kids are much stronger than us.  When you see a little kid running around, say, boy, oh, boy, do you have a great immune system. How about a piece of your immune system? They don't even know about this. Let's open the schools, please, open. Open the schools. We got to get them open. In the fall, we got to get them open. The unhinged left-wing mob is trying to vandalize our history, desecrating our monuments, our beautiful monuments tear down our statues, and punish, cancel, and persecute anyone who does not conform to their demands for absolute and total control. We're not conforming. That's why we're here, actually.  This cruel campaign of censorship and exclusion violates everything we hold dear as Americans. They want to demolish our heritage so they can impose their new oppressive regime in its place. They want to defund and dissolve our police departments. Think of that. You know, I heard it for the first time two weeks ago. I said, well, that one, I mean, they're only kidding. I said they're only -- they're not. Minneapolis, do you see what's going on? They're not kidding -- they got a lot of problems. They'll have a lot of problems. Hey, it's one o'clock in the morning and they're very tough. You know, I've used the word on occasion, hombre, a very tough hombre is breaking into the window of a young woman whose husband is away as a traveling salesman or whatever he may do. And you call 911 and they say, I'm sorry, this numbers no longer working. By the way, you have many cases like that many, many, many, whether it's a young woman or an old woman, a young man or an old man and you're sleeping. So what are you going to do, right? So, they wanted to fund -- they really do. This is a serious movement and in Minneapolis, the Council's already passed it. In Seattle, you see what's going on there. It's even worse, OK. These people are stone-cold crazy.  They're crazy. So, if you want to save your heritage, you want to save that beautiful heritage of ours. We have a great heritage. We're a great country. You are so lucky I'm President. That's all I can tell you.   People have come up to me and say, how do you take it? I say, do I have a choice? Do I have a choice? We deal with a lot of bad people but we're winning. And every once in a while, I'll have one of these days where I'm hit left and right, left and right, like, even this great event. What -- if you could have seen outside or you could have heard the reports. The reports, oh, it's COVID, it's this -- I've got -- by the way, it's a disease without question has more names than any disease in history. I can name kung flu. I can name 19 different versions of names. Many call it a virus, which it is. Many call it a flu, what difference? I think, we have 19 or 20 versions of the name but they say to me, where do you get the energy? I say, I don't have a choice, I don't have a choice. You know, it was interesting. To show you how fake they are, you might have seen it. So, last week they called me and they say, sure West Point, West Point, we're ready. I said, oh, that's right. I have to make the commencement speech at West Point. You know, they delayed it for six weeks because of COVID. So, they delayed it and I went there, 1,106 cadets were graduated and beautiful, right? Beautiful cadets. So, just to show you how bad the fake news is. So, they say to me, sir, we're ready to go. I say, let's go. This is after saying hello to a lot of cadets, inspecting little areas of a building that was very exciting. Actually, it's beautiful, very old. Studied a lot of our great Generals -- some of our Presidents that went there. West Point is beautiful, right on the Hudson River. But after an hour, General that runs at this fantastic guy. After an hour, we land, we do some more inspections, and they say, sir, are you ready? Yes, I am. So, we walk like the equivalent of about three blocks, which is fine. We go on stage which is fine. They make speeches. Then, I make a speech that lasted a long time. I don't know, maybe 45 minutes, maybe longer. I don't know, but a long time. The sun is pouring down on me, OK? But they said to me before the speech, sir, would you like to salute each cadet, each single cadet or maybe, they'll be in groups of two? Would you like to salute? Like this, yes, like this, almost 600 times, you know what that is? 600 times. Thank God they were in twos. Because let me tell you, you do that 600 times you go home and you say, well, it's like a workout without a weight, right? 600 times. So, I did that. Then, the incredible helicopters, brand new, gorgeous helicopters, the Apaches and the other new ones that we just bought. So, they fly over and the kids throw the hats in -- It's beautiful. It really is and it was a beautiful day and we're all finished. I was on the stage for hours, hours, sun. I came home. I had a nice tan, meaning, meaning, I had a nice sunburn because the sun's gone right like that. But I make this speech, right? I salute for probably an hour and a half, maybe more, but around that. Watch, if I'm off like two minutes, They'll say, he exaggerated. It was only an hour and twenty five minutes. He exaggerated, he lied, he lied. He's a liar. These people are sick, the fake news. So then, so then, I finish saluting my final salute, I said, thank goodness. Thank you very much. But think of it, so essentially, almost 600 times. Now, the Generals, says, sir, are you ready? I said, I'm ready, General. Where are we going now? You have to understand I left early in the morning to get there. Now, it's sort of late in the afternoon. A lot of these fakers were with us. So, they know. He said, sir, we can now leave the stage. I say, great, General. Let's go. I'll follow you and he goes like this, right here, sir. And the stage was higher than this one and the ramp was probably ten yards long. I say, General -- Now, you've got to understand I have the whole corps of cadets looking at me and I want them to love their President. I did this big thing. I love them. I'd love them. They're incredible and they do. I said, General, I've got myself a problem, General, because I'm wearing leather bottom shoes, which is good if you're walking on flat surfaces. It's not good for ramps. And if I fall down, look at all those press back there, look at that. And this was a steel ramp, you all saw it, because everybody saw it. This was a steel ramp, it had no handrail. It was like an ice skating rink. And I said, General, I have a problem and he didn't understand that at first. I said, there's no way -- he understood. I just saluted almost 600 times. I just made a big speech. I sat for other speeches. I'm being baked. I'm being baked like a cake. I said, General, there's no way I can make it down that ramp without falling on my ass, General. I have no railing. It's true. So, I said, is there like something else around? Sir, the ramp is ready to go. Grab me, sir, grab me. I didn't really want to grab him. Do you know why? Because that'll be a story too. So now, I have a choice. I can stay up there for another couple of hours and wait until I'm rescued or I can go down this really steep really, really, really -- it's an ice skating rink. It's brutal. So, I said, General, get ready 'cause I may grab you so fast. Because I can't fall with the fake news watching. If I fall. If I fall -- I remember when President Ford fell out of the plane, do you remember? I remember when another President, nice man, threw up in Japan and they did slow-motion replays. It's true, right? It's true. I don't want that General. Now, he's standing there, big, strong guy and he's got his shoes, but they're loaded with rubber on the bottom because I looked -- the first thing I did, I looked at his shoes then I looked at mine very, very slippery. So, I end up saying OK, General. Let's go. I will only grab you if I need you, that's not a good story. Falling would be a disaster. It turned out to be worse than anything. I would have been better off if I fell and slid down the damn ramp, right? So -- so, what happens is I start the journey inch by inch, right? And I was really bent over too. I didn't like that. You know, I didn't like this picture. This picture, I'm sure will be an ad by the fakers. So, I was bent over, right? And then, we finally reached almost the end and the fake news, the most dishonest human beings, they cut it off. Do you know why? Because when I was 10 feet short, I said, General -- I'm sorry, and I ran down the rest, right? I looked very handsome. That -- that was the only good picture. I wouldn't want to run down the whole thing because the fall there would be definitely bad. So I took these little steps and I ran down the last 10. And by the way, their tape, take a look. In almost every instance, it ends just before I run. And they said, he was the number one trending story. I called my wife. I said how good was that speech? I thought it was a -- hey, look, I will tell you when I make good ones and bad ones. Like so far tonight, I'm average, OK? But we're having fun. We're having fun. So far, tonight. But I call my wife and I said, how good was it, darling? She said, you're trending, number one. I said to our great First Lady, I said -- let me ask you a question, was it that good the speech that I'm trending, number one? Because I felt it was really good. No, no, they don't even mention the speech. They mentioned the fact that you may have Parkinson's disease. It's true, it's true, it's true. They say, there's something wrong with our President. I'll let you know if there's something wrong, OK? I'll let you know if there's something -- I'll tell you what, there's something wrong with Biden that I could tell. So then, my wife said, well, it wasn't only the ramp. Did you have water? I said, yeah. I was speaking for a long time. I didn't want to drink it, but I wanted to wet my lips a little bit. You know, you're drinking for -- your working hard up there with the sun pouring down on you. I love this location, the sun's like this. This way, they say, one lighting, right? That's why they did it probably. So, what happens is I said, what does it have to do with water? They said, you couldn't lift your hand up to your mouth with water. I said, I just saluted 600 times like this and this was before I saluted. So, what's the problem? She said, well, I know what you did. You had on a very good red tie that's sort of expensive. It's silk because they -- they look better. They have a better sheen to them. And I don't want to get water on the tie and I don't want to drink much. So, I lift it up, the water. I see we have a little glass of water, where the hell did this water come from? Where did it come from? And I looked down on my tie because I've done it. I've taken water and if it spills down on your tie, it doesn't look good for a long time. And frankly, the tie is never the same. So, I put it up to my lip and then I say -- because I don't want it -- that's just in case, and they gave me another disease. They gave me another disease.   Anyway, that's a long story, but here's the story. I have lived with more the ramp than the water. But I've lived with the ramp and the water since I left West Point, not one media group said I made a good speech or I made a great speech. But the kids loved it because they broke their barrier, which wasn't good in terms of COVID. But they broke that barrier and they wanted to shake hands, they wanted to -- and I don't want to tell anybody, but there are a couple of kids they put out there hand. I actually shook their hand, OK? I actually shook their hand because they were excited. They were excited. They're with their President. They were excited. The most beautiful young people, men, women, the most beautiful young people you've ever seen. So, think of how you feel if you're me. I go there, how did I do? Sir, that was a great speech. You know, all my people. Sir, that was one of your best. That was great. I say, that's great. I agree. It was a good speech. I liked that speech. They don't mention the speech, but they have been going down this ramp at an inch at a time. It's so unfair, it really is. It's so unfair. They are among the most dishonest people anywhere on Earth. They're bad people, bad people. OK, that's enough that. I wanted to tell that story. Does everybody understand that story?  The left-wing anarchists tore down a statue of Thomas Jefferson. Now we're getting into the real story. They decapitated a statue of Christopher Columbus, except in New York when the Italians surrounded it. They didn't have too much of a chance. Those Italians, I love the Italians. They heard they were going to rip down that beautiful Christopher Columbus or all of a sudden they circled that thing. They didn't do too well in hurting Christopher did they? Thank you to our Italian population. We're very proud of you, right? Two days ago, leftist radicals in Portland, Oregon ripped down a statue of George Washington and wrapped it in an American flag and set the American flag on fire. Democrat, all Democrat. Everything I tell you is Democrat and you know, we ought to do something, Mr. Senators. We have two great Senators. We ought to come up with legislation that if you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year, one year. Jim and James, Jim and James. We ought to do it. You know, they talk about freedom of speech and I'm a big believer in freedom of speech, but that's desecration, that's a terrible thing they did. We used to have things. We don't have them anymore because we want to be so open, so everything, and look what happens. We should have legislation that if somebody wants to burn the American flag and stomp on it, but just burn it, they go to jail for one year, OK? In Seattle, the Democrat Mayor and the Democrat City Councilor have surrendered control of six city blocks to an anarchist. Now, these are anarchists. These are not protesters. You listen to the fake news, they say, oh, the protesters were lovely. Could you imagine if people just even slightly to the right tried to take over Seattle? They'd have machine guns out to get them. But these people can take over the city. Look at what they've done to business people that have spent years and years building their business. And now, they're wiped out, taken away. Governor Inslee ought to get his act together, get in there. I'll help you. I'll do whatever you want. I'm waiting for a call. I would love to do it. I would love to do it. It'll take -- it'll take less than an hour, and it'll all be over with, and you'll have your city back. And yet Biden, remains silent in his basement in the face of this brutal assault on our nation and the values of our nation. Joe Biden has surrendered to his party and to the left-wing mob. He has no control. Does anybody honestly think he controls these radical maniacs? Do you know what he says to his wife when he's not confusing her with her sister? Get me the hell out of here. These people are crazy. That's what he says. He has absolutely no control. You know, a lot of times I'll make like a speech and I'll have this beautiful paragraph come out criticizing every little aspect of the speech, beautiful, brilliant. But Joe didn't and it'll say, a comment from Joe Biden, but he didn't say it. Professional people, great students in English Lit, people that are very smart, say it. Joe Biden said, and they're going to this highly complex paragraph, beautifully worded, and I say, Joe didn't say that. Joe doesn't even understand it.  And if Biden is elected, he will surrender your country to these mobsters, 100%. Your 401(k)s -- by the way, look at how we're doing in the stock market. Just set another record with Nasdaq, Nasdaq. Your 401(k)s and money itself will be worthless. Your 401(k)s are doing very well, unless, I don't want to say, if you were stupid, I said, don't sell, don't sell. It went down, but we got it back up, and now, NASA -- think of it, Nasdaq just set a record. And I think, you're going to see a lot of records and next year, if we don't do anything stupid on November 3rd, you are going to have the greatest economic year we've ever had. That will be next year. If the Democrats gain power, then, the rioters will be in charge and no one will be safe and no one will have control. Joe Biden is not the leader of his party. Joe Biden is a helpless puppet of the radical left  and he's not radical left. I don't think he knows what he is anymore, but he was never radical left. But he's controlled by the radical left, and now, he's really controlled. His campaign staff even donated a lot of money to bail out rioters, looters, and arsonists who ravaged Minneapolis. They bailed them out. They put up a lot of money to bail them out, the rioters, the looters, and they were -- they were the arsonists. So, they'll say, oh, it's terrible. What he says about the people of our nation. Maybe some of them aren't even from our nation. The left is trying to do everything they can to stop us, every hour of every day, including even violence and mayhem. They'll do anything they can to stop us. Look, what happened tonight, look at what happened tonight. Law enforcement said, sir, they can't have -- they can't be outside, it's too dangerous. We had a bunch of maniacs come and sort of attack our city, the Mayor and the Governor did a great job, but they were very violent people and our people are not nearly as violent. But if they ever were, it would be a terrible, terrible day for the other side because I know our people. I know our people. But we will never submit to their threats and we will never let them destroy our nation. What they did tonight, I saw it on television coming in on Air Force One. One thing about Air Force One, we got plenty of televisions. We have televisions in closets, you open up the closet, got a television. We got a lot of televisions. It's a great plane, great everything. By the way, we ordered new ones. No President wanted to do it. They thought it was luxuries, wait a minute, air Force One is 31 years old, people don't realize that. So I said, they gave me a job very early in my administration, like, how about the first week. Sir, would you sign for this plane? No, it's actually two planes. Would you sign for this plane, Air Force One? I said, how old is the original or the one we have now? Sir, 31, 32 years and I'd see people coming in from foreign lands that can't compete with us rich countries, but they can't compete with you -- and they have a brand new beautiful 747-800, 747, and I said, wait a minute that country has new and we have a 31 year. So, somebody had to do it. So the deal was made and it was made for a lot of money. I think it was $5.7 billion or $5.6 billion. Now in all fairness, it's two planes and there's a lot of stuff in those planes I won't talk to you about. So, I told Boeing -- the head of Boeing, they said, sir, please. We'd like to get started in the planes. I said, I do too, but I'm not paying $5.6 billion and I'm not paying $4.6 billion. I said, it has to have a three on the front of it. That's a hell of a lot of money too, but it is a rather complex situation. They said, no way, no way. This was before Boeing had problems by the way, but Boeing's coming back. They're coming back. The greatest company in the world and it -- they had some big problems. It had a couple of problems that didn't work out. That was terrible, but the greatest. I think before that, it was the greatest company in the world. It made up a quarter, one quarter of a point of our GDP. Think how big that is, one company. It was an unbelievable machine, and then, they made a plane and they did some foolish things, and a terrible thing happened, and all of a sudden, they've gone through hell. But you know what, they're coming back. We're ready to help them if they need it, but they're coming back and they're coming back soon. But this was the Boeing before that and they were riding high, and like I was, before this thing came in. But we're still riding high because you know what? On November 3rd, we're going to win. We're going to win. So they came in and they came in, and they said, no, no, no, we won. No way, $5.6 billion, whatever it was, whatever it was. If I'm a little bit off, they'll go crazy you know. Whatever, but it was a lot, $5.6 billion, nope, got to have a three, got to have a three. Called me up, nope. Cancel the contract. I said, cancel the contract. I want to cancel. I said, General, can you cancel the contract? He said, yes, sir. I'm very proud of it. Oh, good, cancel it. OK, sir. By the way, to cancel it, do we have to pay a"
"Well, I want to thank you very much, North Carolina, thank you very much. I'm thrilled to be back in the great city of Charlotte, where, by the way, we're having our convention. I guess you heard that, right. With thousands of hardworking American patriots who love our country, cherish our values, respect our laws, and always put America first. Eight months from now we're going to defeat the radical socialist, we're going to win the great state of North Carolina in a land slide. We won it last time, we're going to win it this time by even more. And you know Eric and Laura named their daughter, you know what her name is? Carolina, Carolina, her name is Carolina for a reason. This is an incredible time for our nation. Our country is stronger than ever before and today we just had the largest one-day increase in the stock market in history. That's great. That was great. You know our opponents said, ""Oh, maybe he's in trouble. Maybe the economy -- "" They'll do anything, they'll do anything, I'm sure they were thrilled. Do you think our opponents were thrilled when they saw the stock market today? I don't know. By the way, look at this, look back there, look at all of that press. Look at all of them.  I don't know if Sleepy Joe or Bernie, I don't think they have that much press. Bernie was going wild. ""Why would I be here tonight?"" Right? Why would I be here? He said, ""Why would I be here tonight?"" We don't have the primary we've already won this thing, you know. I was going to say that, you know, one thing I -- I held it back because they'll say horrible language. You use horrible language today, but we are -- we're doing fantastically. There's never been a time where the Republican Party was so unified as it is now. And you know, you hear about enthusiasm for Crazy Bernie and that's true. He does have some enthusiasm, but much less than we have and a much smaller group of people too. And there's not a lot of enthusiasm for -- there's not a lot of enthusiasm for Biden. I thought he gave up the presidency the other day because he said he's running for the Senate. I looked at the first lady, I said, ""Hey, he's running for the Senate."" And today he just said Super Thursday he's looking forward to Super Thursday. Jobs are booming in our country, incomes are soaring, poverty has plummeted, confidence is surging, and we have completely rebuilt the awesome power of a thing called the United States Military. And every day, for me, and for you, it's Promises Made Promises Kept every day. One of the most important promises I made is right to this era. You know, we look at it. It's the never-ending wars in the Middle East. We're taken our soldiers, we're bringing them back home. We're not law enforcement, we're bringing it back home. American troops cannot be the policeman for the world or to create democracy in other nations and, frankly, probably don't want it. The job of the American military is to secure and defend our country. Two days ago, the United States signed a deal with the Taliban so that after 19 years of conflict and very close to 20, we can finally begin to bring our amazing troops back home. After years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation and taking care of our own American citizens. And all of the things that we've done, we've wiped out terrorists we've done so much and you know what, we're eight thousand miles away. Yet a lot of big countries surrounding Afghanistan, you've got Afghanistan itself. The progress that was made was made possible by the extraordinary valor of our men and women in uniform. You know that. And we pay a special tribute, and I know you pay it, a special tribute to our great wounded warriors and those who made the ultimate sacrifice. And as we bring back our troops, we are committed to ensuring that foreign terrorists are denied admission to America in the first place. They're not coming here. And if they do bad things happen to them, we must keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.  By the way, I have to say this, you know you have thousands and thousands of people outside. And somebody was saying that if Pocahontas, any one of them, Sleepy Joe, he doesn't have that so he doesn't have lots of crowds. He's very small crowds. But if sleepy Joe or if any of them had a crowd, one-tenth the size they go around talking about how big the crowd they never say that. Hey, take your cameras and spin them around this big arena. Go ahead. Spin them a little.  They don't tell you, they don't tell you. You know they say don't turn them, but if there was some kind of trouble in a little corner, anything to make us look bad, that camera would turn like a pretzel. I used to think, you know, modern equipment it can't turn but would we'd have a protester, and I must say, I'll say it out loud, we don't have too many protesters anymore, do we? We don't have too many. No fun to be a protestor in a Trump rally, but do we have a great time at a Trump rally? Do we have -- My administration has also taken the most aggressive action in modern history to protect Americans from the coronavirus. You know about this whole thing. Horrible. Including sweeping travel restrictions. Today we met with the big great pharmaceutical companies and they're really working hard and they're working smart, and we had some -- We had a great meeting today with a lot of the great companies and they're going to have vaccines. I think relatively soon and they're going to have something that makes you better and that's going to actually take place, we think, even sooner. So it's a lot of good things are happening, but we have strong borders and, really, our tough and early actions have really been proven to be a hundred percent right. We went out, we're doing everything in our power to keep the sick and infected people from coming into our country, we're working on that very hard. We close our borders very early. I took a lot of heat for that. Remember when I closed the borders to certain areas of the world, I took a lot of heat, but there are fringe globalists who would rather keep our borders open than keep our infection and think of it, keep all of the infection let it come in. And we're working with other countries in all fairness. Look it's a problem, we're working with other countries. Remember this, over the last long period of time, the flu, the common flu, you know this, right, from 27,000 to 70,000 people get infected and many people die. Think of it, 27,000, you lose 27,000 people to the common flu. It can be much more. One year was much higher than the 70,000 number those people die. So when you lose 27,000 people a year, nobody knew that. I didn't know that. Three or four weeks ago I was sitting, I said, ""What do we lose with a regular flu?"" They said about 27,000 minimum goes up to 70, sometimes even 80. One year it went up to one thousand people. I said nobody told me that. Nobody knows that. So I actually told the pharmaceutical companies you have to do a little bit better job on that vaccine. Really, you have to do a better job with that vaccine. Thank you. Last year, it was approximately 36,000 people died, so we're working hard on it and we're going to come up with some really great solutions. In the meantime, we're stopping with -- Only in North Carolina. There can only be -- How many people here are from South Carolina, by the way? Well, we love both places, but that was from North Carolina.  But just to finish up, so we've made a lot of progress. We've really done a great job with it we're keeping our borders strong. My job is to protect the health of American patients and Americans first and that's what we're doing. Washington Democrats are trying to politicize the coronavirus, denigrating the noble work of our public health professionals, but honestly, not so much anymore. Everyone appreciates. These are the greatest professionals in the world at what they do, we're actually helping a lot of other countries where they have some very, very big problems. So we have our professionals in constant touch. I'm in constant touch with some of the leaders and helping them out, but the political attacks from some of the Democrats really must stop. We've got to all work together on this one to safeguard our people. We're going to safeguard our people, the United States. The United States is, right now, ranked by far No. 1 in the world for preparedness. Earlier today, when I met with the pharmaceutical companies, things were discussed and learned, honestly, the media didn't know. Nobody knew, they've never heard this before and we learned a lot and maybe that had the impact on the stock market. Who knows what happened. But we're going to reduce the severity of what's happening, the duration of the virus. We discussed all of these things. We will bring these therapies to market as rapidly as possible. And I have to say, with a thriving economy, the way it is, and the most advanced health system in America is so resilient. We know what we're doing. We have the greatest people on earth. The greatest health system on earth. We have the greatest health system on earth. The renewal of American strength over the last three years means, at times of challenge, we are the best prepared to rise to any occasion. No country is better equipped than America to handle new threats and no people are more skilled, talented, tough or driven than Americans. And together, we are in the midst of the great American comeback. That's what it is. Last month, we added two hundred and 25,000 new jobs in January alone. That makes 7 million jobs since the election. We have destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate and we killed the founder and leader of ISIS Al-Baghdadi. He is dead. And we took out the world's top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever. Soleimani. While the extreme-left has been wasting America's time with vile hoaxes and delusional witch hunts, we have been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages and lifting up American citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. Tomorrow, voters in states across the nation will head to the polls for Super Tuesday, not Super Thursday. Oh, he said Super Thursday. You can't do this thing. Can you imagine if I said Super Thursday it would be over, right? I would be over. No matter how good you are, certain things you can't, as an example, name like Sleepy Joe. He's constantly naming the wrong state. ""It's great to be in the state of Ohio."" No, no, no! I'm sorry! You're in North Carolina, No, no. Joe. You ever see him run up with a sign. No, no. North Carolina, Joe. Once that happens, you might as well leave the stage because it's a disaster, no matter how good -- We're in North Carolina, ""It's great to be in Idaho."" No you're in Iowa. No, he makes a lot of those mistakes, they're a little scary. Did you see guns? You know we're going to protect your Second Amendment, you understand that. But did you see sleepy Joe? Did you see Sleepy Joe, where he said last year, 150 million people were killed by guns in our country, 150 million. That means 50% of our country. That's a big story, 150, could you imagine Trump saying that? These people would never let me live at that. We can't make -- We can't give it a little mistake, right? We can't make even our little tiny, tiny mistake. If we make a tiny mistake, it's headline news. They say things like 150 million people, kill, guns. They say Super Thursday. They say Georgia he's looking forward to winning Georgia tomorrow. Georgia's not in Super Tuesday. So many mistakes. You can't do that when you're negotiating with China can't do that when you're negotiating with these countries  Those mistakes would be very expensive. And then you have Mini Mike. Do you see this guy? Can you believe it? Mini Mike, he's being interviewed tonight on Fox? Can you believe it? Fox. They want to, you know, be politically correct. They want an interview, they end up interviewing more Democrats and Repub -- I don't know what's going on with Fox. But they're interviewing this guy the night before. Mini Mike, ay yay yay, what a mess he is. The worst debate performance in the history of Presidential debates. Do we agree? The worst in the history. You've got to have more and I'd get down real low, but I don't want to copy what everybody said. So everyone said, ""Oh!"", now they all said, ""Oh!"". Do that again when you get down low, but you know, if I do that again, it's a copy, it's a copy. No, no, no. You never liked the copy. Even though you're copying yourself, you don't like to copy, you know you do it once it was a big hit, but you do it once and you sort of say that was nice, don't do it again. Because if it doesn't work the second time it gets embarrassing, right? You know, all right, we all know. But now he's OK, he's a disaster waiting to happen, he's a mess. No matter which Democrat candidate you're talking about, and you understand that. Anyone of these candidates, and you see what's happening, right? They're all now -- it's being rigged against -- it's sad, it's being rigged against crazy Bernie. Crazy Bernie is going to go crazy, crazy. I think Crazy Bernie is going to be more crazy when they see what they're doing. I called it a long time ago so, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Buttigieg. Mayor Pete, he quit out last night and then I hear that I hear a senator from his state. We're going to win, we're going to win that state, but she dropped out. Sounds like they made a deal, you know. They both supported Sleepy Joe. You know why? They made a deal. You know why? Quid pro quo, that's why. No good, quid pro quo. Quid pro quo. They made a deal. Impeach them, they should be impeached, they should be impeached. Quid pro quo. But they embrace an extreme left-wing agenda. Their plans would massively raise your taxes, destroy our liberty, muzzle our faith, and erase our sovereignty, you know that. The Democrat Party has gone crazy, whether it's Bernie Sanders' plan to eliminate private health care. Elizabeth Pocahontas is playing, by the way, she's history, she's history. I came up with that name far too early. I should have just waited, but it didn't matter. I thought she was making a comeback. I said, ""Wow, I just didn't do it."" But you know those embers were burning a little bit a couple of months ago, they never caught on. In fact, you'll probably lose the state of Massachusetts to Bernie, so she doesn't know what to do because you're not supposed to lose the state of Massachusetts if you get in there for a while. She's the senator -- She's the senator from Massachusetts. I think she's going to lose it to Bernie and Miss Michigan, you see what's going on over there? Michigan we're leading, we're leading in Wisconsin, we're leading in Florida, we're leading in South Carolina, we're leading in North Carolina, we're leading in New Hampshire, we're leading in the great state of Florida, that was one of the first ones. The other -- our last election -- hey, how great was the 2016 election? Was that good, right? One of the greatest nights, one of the most highest-rated television nights in the history of television. And remember there was -- Oh, this is gonna to be a quick one. This is going to be on -- That wasn't so easy for them. Oh, I love the scene, the scene of that convention center, where Hillary was getting ready to speak and then she found out she lost. But Elizabeth Warren, she had a plan to eliminate our borders or Mini Mike's plan to eliminate your Second Amendment. Mike Bloomberg wants to eliminate your Second Amendment.  Don't worry about it, he's not going to happen, not going to happen for him. As for sleepy Joe, he doesn't even know where he is, what he's doing or what office he's running for. Actually I don't -- I honestly don't think he knows what office he's running for, and it doesn't matter. You know, maybe he gets in because he's a little more moderate, so maybe he gets in, but he's not going to be running it. Other people are going to. They're going to put him into a home, and other people are going to be running the country and they're going to be super-left radical crazies. They're going to be super-left radical crazy. Joe's gonna be in a home, he'll be watching television. Everything will be just fine. The insanity of Washington Democrats is why millions of registered Democrat voters are joining our movement. They are joining our great Republican Party.  Turn those televisions. We have the enthusiasm in our party, you know. No, I really mean I constantly hear about the enthusiasm they're fighting each other, they hate each other, they don't know what's going on. We have all the love, we have all the enthusiasm, and we know what we're doing. We know what we're doing. So we're thrilled to be joined tonight by many really great, terrific, brilliant wonderful warriors, even though he comes from a slightly different state, but not too far by. He's somebody that really has distinguished himself he's become a great friend of mine. And what he did for Justice Kavanaugh, do you remember that? One are the greatest statements ever made in the United States Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham. Come on up Lindsey. Lindsey Graham, come on up, Lindsey. Come here, Lindsey. I got to have him say something. Come here, Lindsey. Hello, Charlotte. It's good to be in a place where I don't have an accent. Mr. President, thank you for being the best commander in chief, says Ronald Reagan. Thank you for killing the terrorists over there, so they can't hurt us over here. Thank you for sticking with Judge Kavanaugh. Mr. President, everybody in this room has one thing in common, we all have your back. Mr. President, you're going to kick their ass in November. Oh my, Lindsay, my Lindsey. Thank you, Lindsey. Great guy.  Great guy, great gentleman. Now some warriors that really defended us with the impeachment hoax, one of the great hoaxes of in the history of our country. Representative Virginia Fox, Patrick McHenry, Richard Hudson, Mark Meadows, David Rouser, Ted, Budd, they're warriors. These guys are unbelievable. The way they fight. And you know, the last two, I tell you -- I came here, and they probably weren't scheduled to win and fake news, CNN, were -- they were all set. They wanted a couple of losses  and they handled pressure so well. They came and we gave a rally that was like this and Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy won by so much, it wasn't even close. And they're great people and they've done a fantastic job. Thank you very much, fellas. They handle pressure, they were under a lot of pressure and they handled it well. It's nice to know people can handle pressure, there aren't too many of them. North Carolina Republican Party Chairman Michael Whatley. Thank you, Michael. That a few great friends of mine and they love North Carolina. Louis DeJoy, who you know, Louis DeJoy. Two great people Diamond and Silk, right, Diamond and Silk. We love them. OK. God know we're about to win another election. And I thought Mini Mike  Ahuh! Mini, mini. President Trump is this high. Ahuh! You got to be this high, right? Now, while the media continue to play the race card, we gonna continue to play that Trump card so we can win, win, and win. You know the first lady, a long time ago now, right. How long is that? Probably almost five years ago. She said, ""You know there -- these two women on the Internet, they're unbelievable, they're unbelievable."" I said, ""Oh, I know I hear that all the time. I hear it all the time."" She said, ""No."" The next day she came again. She said, ""You know, I saw them again, they're unbelievable."" I said, ""Let me see."" I saw them. I fell in love and everybody fell in love with Diamond and Silk. So, thank you. Some people that have really been helpful to me: Corey Lewandowski, David Bossie, and Pam Bondi, great people. And thanks also to all of the people who are working to make the 2020 Republican National Convention right here in Charlotte, an outstanding success. RNC Chairman Ronna McDaniel, RNC Co-Chairman Tommy Hicks, and Convention President Marsha Lee Kelly. Thank you, everybody. They're doing a great job. I tell you, they're looking -- they're going to spend a lot of money doing a good job. She would do a great job, but just an OK job. It doesn't matter as long as you win, right. You know what I did when we won last time. Somebody else took the Convention Center spent a fortune and I just took a hotel ballroom. I said, ""What the heck, if I win, nobody cares and if I -- if I don't --"" Look, if you win, nobody cares what room you're in. If you lose, nobody cares what room you're in right. So we took a ballroom, a nice ballroom, you know, that's it, no big deal. I figured this way, if we win nobody cares and if we lose I'm out of there, I save a hell of a lot of money, but I never thought we were going to lose. That's one of the things they like to spread: Trump felt that he wasn't going to win. Oh yeah, I'm running because I thought -- That's not the deal. I mean, it's always possible that you don't win but boy, I thought we were going to win and we were getting crowds like this. Actually, to be honest, I think our crowds now are bigger, stronger, and even more enthusiastic than ever before. It's -- I really think they're more enthusiastic than ever before and in a true sense. You know we're eight months away, that's a long time, that's sort of like it's -- it's, not even our -- 'cause, you know, in case you haven't heard, we've got it made in the primaries. We've got to be. But -- but you know we're really in for us, we're not really even into political season, right, and we're getting crowds like this We were all over over the last couple of weeks. We like to troll, we like to go the night before one of their primaries. We just we do a little trolling. It's called we do a little trolling. Bernie Sanders was very upset. ""Why would he be there?"" Why? Why? Because I want to win, I want to keep everybody happy. That's -- that's a good reason, but honestly, where -- you know, this is where you see this when you're two months or three months out, but we're getting numbers that are unbelievable. Colorado we went, we went to Iowa, we were every place we've gone, New Hampshire, every place, we've gone. Just came out of South Carolina, you saw that. That was an incredible one. Right. Every place, every place that we've gone or been it's been amazing. I'd also like -- like to recognize and so important, a woman who's really helped us win North Carolina in 2016, and I have a feeling that this year, she'll even do better because she happened to grow up here. Lara Trump and my son, Eric Trump, two great people. I mean, I have to say that about my son, but I know a lot of people don't like their sons that much but Laura has been fantastic, and thank you very much, what a job. She knows the state better than anybody in this room, except maybe this guy right here. How are we doing Lara? How are we doing? How are we doing in the state? Are we doing well? And we're doing well in Pennsylvania here, right? And South Carolina, I know we're doing great there. Also with us tonight is a man who's really become a good friend of mine. We were going at it a little bit at the beginning, but I will tell you and I would say if I didn't get along, I would not be here. I wouldn't do this. I think he's been tremendous. He's been a tremendous supporter and things that we've wanted to do and fights that we've had, which was so important, he's been right up and Lindsey will tell you that he's been right up in front and really he deserves another 6-year term and probably a lot longer than that, but he's gonna come up and I'm going to ask Senator Thom Tillis. Come on up to, Thom. Thom has really been incredible. He's been working every day and he really wants to fight the radical left and he does it and he knows how to fight, take care of our amazing veterans, and stop illegal immigration. Thom is a champion for the people of North Carolina and this November we need everybody to go and vote for Thom, he's doing great, he's doing great. I hear he's way up in the polls, he's way up in the polls. Thom, say a few words. Come here, man. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you all again for being here. Thank you for supporting our President, make sure that I come back for another six years and we get him back for four more years. Let me tell you about this President. I think it's very important since before this President was ever sworn in, they were trying to impeach him. Did he back down? No, when the media goes after him and tries to spread false news or fake news, does he back down?  When he makes a promise, does he keep it?  When he told you he'd cut taxes, did he do it?  When he told me you would support veterans, did he do it?  When he told you that we would refund the military and become the world's superpower, did he do it?  When he told you that he was going to confirm superior or Supreme Court justices  Gorsuch, this is a district court judges now 200, did he do it?  And, ladies and gentlemen, you got a stark choice. It starts tomorrow, we're both on the ballot. You need to vote for us to win, go back and do it again, but let me tell you again, we can't forget what they're promising you on the other side of the aisle. Bernie Sanders is so liberal, he doesn't even call himself a Democrat. He calls himself a socialist.  This President went to the State of the Union and he said America will never be a socialist country. That's another promise he's got to keep. Now, finally, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank the President for coming back and I can't wait to welcome him in August for the RNC convention. But, Mr. President, there was one thing that you said back in the campaign in 2016, it's the only thing I just don't believe it's happened. Have you gotten tired of winning?  Do you want to win some more? Then you got to get this man reelected so we can give you the free stuff that a free country deserves, free markets, free trade, freedom of religion, freedom of speech and the freedom for you to protect yourself with your right to bear arms. That's the freedom that this man represents. That's the freedom I represent. Get him elected for four more years. Wow! Wow! That's pretty good, that's pretty good, Thom. Lot of times we get people up and they just can't do it. They start breathing bad, they can't breathe. Help me. Like Bloomberg, he goes, ""Ahh."" Did you see the debate? ""Ahh."" She came after him, she's mean, she's very mean. She came after him and he started choking, ""Oh, god. Oh, get me off this stage. Get me off, you guys didn't tell me this was going to happen."" No, that was great, Thom. We're also honored to be joined tonight by a true American hero, a veteran of World War Two and the Korean War, who just turned 100 years old, and his name is George Washington Perry. Legit. George, thank you very much for being here. Thank you, George, 100 years old. He's 100 and he looks good. Thank you, George. With the help of everyone here tonight, America has now become the hottest economy anywhere on the planet Earth. Since my election, over 219,000 new jobs have been created right here in North Carolina. We have lifted 10 million people off of welfare, including seven million people off of food stamps. Median household income has reached the highest level ever recorded. Think of that. The average unemployment rate for my administration is the lowest for any U.S. President in recorded history, that's not fair! The unemployment rate among African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and Asian Americans has reached the lowest level in recorded history, very important to me. African-American, youth unemployment has reached an all-time low. African-American poverty is at the lowest rate ever recorded. For decades, Democrat politicians betrayed and they truly did they betrayed African-Americans. My administration is delivering for African-Americans like never before. No President has done more for our black community. No President has done more for our black community and it's an honor to do it. Last month here in Charlotte, we launched a nationwide campaign to create a better future for all Americans, it's called Opportunity Now, you know about it. We're also fighting to ensure that working families have access to paid family leave, reducing the cost of child care and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200, thanks to the Republican child tax credit. Though the Republicans are claiming that we did that nobody else did that, but the Democrats are saying, how did they do that one? We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that decimated manufacturing in North Carolina? You know all about it. It's probably the number one reason I'm running and the deals we're making the trade deals are unbelievable. Your state lost 43% of all manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed. Think of that. Weeks ago, we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement into law. The USMCA is a giant victory for North Carolina's, incredible farmers and factory workers and by the way, speaking of farmers and factory workers and small businesses and all -- for the death tax. You know about the death tax, right. It's called the inheritance tax. You have a small farm, soup place, you have a small business, you have a nice business, you no longer have an inheritance tax or death tax. So if you want to leave it to your children, you can leave it to your children. There's no tax to be paid by your children, so they don't have to go back to the evil bank or borrow money from the banker and lose the farm, lose the business. That won't happen. And I always say it because you know, I know a lot of parents that don't love their children very much. Is there anybody in this room that does not love your children? Please raise your hand. Please raise your hand. Nobody, nobody! That's because we're in North Carolina, you know, you love your children. No, but if you don't, then it doesn't matter because if you don't love your children, don't leave them a damn thing, OK. But you don't have the inheritance tax anymore, which is great. A lot of people don't even know that, but that's a big deal or no issue, have Washington Democrats more thoroughly betrayed the American people than on the issue of immigration. Every Democrat running for President supports free federal welfare for illegal aliens on your tax. Not only does illegal immigration drain our treasury, but it threatens innocent lives as just one heartbreaking example, two illegal aliens in Maryland, who had been previously charged with attempted murder were released, unaccountably released. And they went on to murder a teenage girl beating her with a baseball bat and slashing her with a machete. The entire Democratic field supports deadly sanctuary cities, which release dangerous criminals to terrorize your communities right here in North Carolina, believe it or not. The sanctuary county of Durham, released an illegal alien criminal who then proceeded to viciously murder a young 19-year-old woman last year, you know all about it, killing her and dumping her body into the woods. Last year alone, sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina -- How did that happen to North Carolina? Deliberately set free, hundreds and hundreds of days, and these are really dangerous criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of burglary, gun crime, sexual assault, kidnapping, and even murder. Got to change it. Your Democrat Governor Roy Cooper vetoed a bill that would save North Carolina lives and ban sanctuary cities in your state.  What is he thinking? But while you're a super liberal governor is putting your families at risk, your Republican Senator, Thom Tillis, has introduced a bill allowing American victims to sue sanctuary cities for the horrible pain, anguish, and suffering they inflict on our people. Good job.  We're building the wall, we're building the wall, we're building the wall, we're building the wall. Mexico's paying for the wall, by the way. We built 127 miles as of today, 127 miles and Mexico is paying for the wall. The media is going to be thrilled when I"
"Well, thank you very much. Hello, Las Vegas great to be with you. They have a big election tomorrow, we've already won the state. I like guys better. We just take it, just take it. We won it. I like it that better. You know the -- they say they're going to have a lot of problems tomorrow. I hate to tell you this, I don't know. Have you heard? I hear their computers are all messed up just like they were in Iowa. They're not going to be able to count their vote. They're going to tell you about health care they're, going to tell you about our military and jet fighters and missiles and rockets, but they can't count votes. Pictures can't count them. They can't count votes but they're saying they may not be able to do it again. They're still trying to tell us, I called up yesterday, how are they doing in Iowa? Was that two weeks ago? They said we're getting close. Can I get it close? I'll, never know, they'll never know, but, I hear the same thing could happen, but I hope it doesn't actually, I hope it doesn't. But I'm delighted to be back in a state I love. I have a beautiful building right down the road. With the proud, hardworking patriots of Nevada. You've got to say, Nevada. You say that wrong, you got problems. You say Nevada, they go, what the hell? Got to be Nevada. With your help this November we're going to defeat the radical socialist democrats and we are going to win Nevada in a big, beautiful landslide. Now, we have some special people here. You know the special people are all of you, that's , but we have some very special people and we celebrate one of the greatest moments in the history of sports. Some people say it was the single greatest moment in the history of sports. It was called The Miracle on Ice. Do you remember that? That was when the Russians had a team assembled. That was probably, they say, maybe the greatest team ever assembled. They were unbelievable, and, you know our guys played a practice game with them. Was it like a couple of weeks before and I hate to tell you, the score was 10 to three and the USA was not on top. And this team was an incredible team and they went in and it was amazing, but tomorrow marks the 40 years since The United States men's hockey team defeated then Soviet Union team in the 1980 Olympics. Incredible. That was incredible. Most of you remember that. I've look at that. We got a lot of young ones. We got a lot of people that remember that. A lot of people. And by the way, we got the Olympics coming back. Coming to Los Angeles. Thank you. Thank you, President Trump. Thank you President Trump. Thank you very much. Thank you President Trump. Eight years, eight years, 2028. And you know what, unless I'm still President, then, which is a distinct possibility. I won't be here and you know what they'll do? I'll say, How's the Olympics going? Does anybody have a ticket for the President that got the Olympics to come here? They'll say, I want to thank and they'll thank hundreds of people, but they won't thank you, President, that I'm the one that pulled it off. But that's OK. 2028 Olympics is coming to Los Angeles. It's gonna be great, and we worked with the mayor of Los Angeles, who was great. He called up, and, we gave him a lot of help. I was President-elect then, because the President didn't want to get involved. He didn't want to get involved in getting the Olympics, so they called me, and I was President-elect. Hadn't taken office and I got involved and I'll tell you, they were happy we got involved. That was great. It's going to be very exciting. Today, we are thrilled to have with us 14 players of that really incredible gold medal team. Give them a big hand. And they were amazed. They said boy, just a big crowd. I said it's only because you guys are coming. You know this thing was supposed to be for this evening and they said, let me get back to Washington, do it early, so we gave you almost no notice. You have thousands of people outside. Thousands of people inside. You had to see. We're in Iowa. We were in New Hampshire. You saw what happened in Colorado. Last night was unbelievable. Every place we go, to say, it's been incredible, I don't know if you saw the pictures last night of the outside in Colorado. It was incredible, it was. You couldn't fill that arena up four times and it was a big arena, and, it's something. So I hated to do it at 12 o'clock, but I said, let's go, I want to get back, we got a deal with China. We got a deal with Russia. We Got a deal with North Korea, South Korea. We got a deal with the rest of the world, get my people back. We got to get the hell out of here, right? But we have a lot of time. I'd like down to invite these incredible sport legends to join me on stage. A friend of mine and a very good golfer by the way, captain Mike, Hey Mike. Mike. Where's Mike? Where is he? Mike. You know he is, he's a fake handicap, he's what he is. Say something, Mike. Just welcome everybody. It's ironic. We happen to be here to celebrate our 40th anniversary. The Vegas Knights flew the whole team out to honor us tonight, and, for the weekend. We obviously thank the people of Las Vegas for having us here and we'll be looking forward to celebrating a special time, and it's a great honor for the President to invite us to be part of this event as well. So, Vegas thanks for having us. But just tell them, am I a good athlete, and am I a good golfer? Yeah, you are. Yes, sir. Whatever you say. Thanks, Mike. That was some goaltending, right? How many did you rebuff? But how many did you? A very few. Very few but a lot of shots, right? Yes a lot of shots. He was like a piata? Yes. So Mike that was great, goaltender, Jim Craig, so Jim rebuffed, come here Jim. Great goaltender. Great goaltender. They didn't know what was happening. They kept shooting. He doesn't know how many you rebuffed, How many did you rebuff? 37. 37. So let me ask you, was that as goaltender, because that was incredible, was that the greatest game you ever played? You've had a lot of great games. Was that the greatest game you have ever played? It wasn't important an important game. A slightly important? Yes. 37. 37. Bill Baker. Bill come on. Bill Baker. Dave Christian. Ken Morrow. Jack O'Callahan, Mike Ramsey. Those legs took a beating. Mark Wells, Neal Broten, John Harrington, Rob McClanahan, Buzz Schneider, Dave Silk, Phil Verchota, and a great coach and assistant coach at the time, Craig Patrick. They said four more years. Twelve more years. Let's look at that. Look at the press. Look. Hey Mike, look at the fake news back there. It's a lot. I always say, I always say that's like the Academy Awards used to be. This year, we had a movie, they said best movie. They announced the movie from South Korea. So, what's that all about? The movie was made in South Korea? Look, I get along great with South Korea, but you know, I never saw that one before. They used to go best foreign movie, that we do it that way. I don't get it, but that's what it used to be, and this is really an incredible time. I'll tell you what, for a country, that's why I like to see things that we do. Get on it, because nobody is doing what we do. Nobody can do it like us. We're the greatest country in the world. Again, we have the greatest people. We have the greatest military by far. We've totally rebuilt our military. Jobs are booming, incomes are surging, poverty is plummeting, factories are returning, confidence is soaring like these guys. The confidence is soaring, but you know, we do have somebody that I'd like to point out because this team is, they had a coach, and that coach was a very inspirational coach and I'd like to have maybe one of you come up and just say a few words about Coach Brooks, because he was very, very. He was really a big, he was a big heart on this team. Please. I think it would be appropriate if you've got a few minutes that Herb Brooks' daughter Kelly is here representing her father, and, I can honestly tell you that Kelly was not ready for this at all. Her dad was an amazing coach. He was a great teacher. He was a great motivator at times, maybe too much of a motivator. He was very demanding. He was very difficult to play for, but trust me on one thing, and never once was a day that we didn't respect the man and never once was a day that we didn't trust him in what he was trying to do. He orchestrated the greatest sports moment of the 20th century and the guys behind me was so proud and honored to have been a part of him and what he was able to put together. It was a perfect environment. A perfect storm, sometimes. Not only a great coach but great players and great people that stand behind me now. So Kelly would like to say a couple of words. Thank you. I'm honored that his legacy still is alive today and he would be proud to be here with you all. In my personal opinion, he would have been a Trump fan. So tell me one thing, one thing, so I see those tears. That means you think he will you miss him and you love him, Right? Was he actually a nice guy because he looked tough? Mike was just saying he was brutal, but he was a good guy right? Tough, but great. Thank you very much. Thanks, Kelly. Thank you. All greatest sports story could be number one. So a lot of people, a lot of these sports experts, sportswriters have voted that as the single greatest sporting event or athletic achievement. I think so, yeah. No, they put it No. 1, certainly, top -- top five in the history of our country, and we have a lot of things that we've done to break records. We're going to go over them, but we've broken a lot of records now. But I want to thank that great team for being with us. Very inspirational. This is a big day, the anniversary. Thank you. Thank you. In my State of the Union address, I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback and we're just getting started. After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades. By the way, I think they're starting another one. Did you see that? I see these phonies, these the do-nothing Democrats. They said today that Putin wants to be sure that Trump gets elected. here we go again. Here we go again. Did you see it? A story. Aren't people bored? Now. does that include because a couple of weeks ago, Crooked Hillary said Chelsea Gabbard, right? Tulsi Gabbard and right. She was a Russian agent, Tulsi. And also Stein. From Jill Stein. I don't know Jill Stein. I never met the woman. She is a Green Party candidate or was. They said, she's an agent of Russia. I don't know her and I don't know Tulsi. The only thing I know about both of them is they're, not agent. They are not agents of Russia. These people are sick. That's pencil neck. Pencil neck again, a little pencil. No, I just see it again. I was told that was happening. I was told a week ago. They said, you know they're trying to start a rumor. It's disinformation. That's the only thing they're good at. They're not good at anything else. They get nothing done. Do nothing, Democrats. That Putin wants to make sure I get elected. Listen to this, so, doesn't he want to see who the Democrats going to be? Wouldn't you rather have, let's say, Bernie? Wouldn't you rather have Bernie who honeymooned in Moscow? These people are crazy. That's all they think about. They don't think about the country. They don't think about jobs. They don't think about lowering your drug costs. Infrastructure. These people are crazy. Trust me. I like, I like what we're doing, and I love this country. I love this country. Now, and I campaigned on it. At the same time we want to get along with Russia. We want to get along with China. We want to get along with all these countries who the hell needs to have conflict, but these people are sick. They are sick people. The radical left's attempts to poison our democracy and overturn the last election, have totally ended in a big fat failure, and by the way, you saw it today single best day I've ever had in the polls. And any poll that the fake news gives you, because the real numbers are higher, but any poll they give you is a fake, but Wisconsin, the great state of Wisconsin, I was leading by many, many, many points against every one of these characters. Can you believe it? We got a new one, Mini Mike. How did he do in the debate the other day? Mini Mike, he's a box by kept my home Mini Mike. He was a beauty. What happened? He couldn't breathe? What happened? Mike would like to know. How about that Pocahontas screaming at him. She forgot. She forgot that she lied about her own heritage. She said she was an Indian because she had high cheekbones. That was the only thing. Remember when I said, I have more Indian blood in me than she has and I have none. I have none. To the best of my knowledge. Wouldn't mind having somebody I happen to have none, and she joked and she went out and got a report on. One, 1024. You know that means? That means, probably I do have more. Now. why did they bring that up when she was screaming at him? Why? Because he was grasping for breath, I can't breathe., I can't breathe. I can't she's hitting me too hard. Pocahontas. Well, she won that debate because by could not respond. That's what they all said. They all said that, that's funny I went their own shot. It's not me that's saying it fake news. Yes, you fake news people. No! No! They all said it, though. Who won the debate Trump? You know what the way I look at it, when fake news CNN, oops there goes the camera off. Red light just went off. Say I can tell everyone of them. I know them by heart. I know the operators, I know the cameraman they're OK. They're all on our side. By the way they screamed at, Get that camera off. I don't want to do that. Get that camera off. it's to be a job, all right, I'm sorry, President. But how about MSDNC, they're worse than CNN. and they're owned by people that really are bad. I think they're very bad for our country. The owners of Comcast rotten company, bad for our country, very bad. They try. You know, they have all these PR things to try and keep their image nice and clean. What they do on television is so disgusting. I think in the old days, you had to have licenses for this stuff right. They can say whatever they want to say, let's see what happens over the next period of time, bunch of dishonest people, Comcast. Terrible company, terrible people running that company. And you know what, I had celebrity Apprentice. I had the apprentice on for 14 seasons. 14 seasons. And they used to come to my office and they would kiss my ass, please sign. Please sign. Please. Please sign. You know, it's an interesting story. They came and we signed. You know who signed me? Jeff Zucker. It's one of the only things he's done good in broadcasting, but I signed. And NBC is, you know, is owned by Comcast. But I signed and they figured the show would be a total failure, so they only signed me for one season. You know, it was going to, go on, and then the show does started at 10 went to eight, went to seven, went to five, went to four, went to two, it went to one. I had the number one show in all of television. It was a phenomenal, phenomenal and the final episode, remember that? You remember that? You remember the final? We had -- I don't know. It was like one of the biggest shows of the year. It was a tremendous success, but here I was. I signed with NBC and they didn't even want to waste the ink on an option. Usually they have an option for not, you know, just like they didn't do it you stupid people. So they paid very little for the first season. I think $25,000 a show which is considered like that good, that's OK, it was fun. I didn't know it's going to be a success. You know, hey just like this was successful. It's a reason. Because when I left, then Arnold Schwarzenegger -- and I like Arnold, said some very nice things, you know that is not, but the show did not exactly succeed when I left but I had it on and they wanted me to sign for more, and I said No I'm going to run for President, but I'll never forget. I looked at, I didn't know anything about this business and I had an agent wonderful guy from William Morris and he said Sir, I don't want you to sign. No business show has ever done well on network television. Well, it's not business is at the time slot. Sir, I don't want you to sign. Sir, don't sign. I said yeah, OK, but I have a problem. I shook the hand of somebody. I have to. And Mark Burnett was great. He was my guy, and we shook hands, so I have to, but I agreed you know. I didn't know that no business, you know business type show had ever succeeded on a network television. So he said, I don't want you to sign or break it. I said I can't break, it can break it. Anyway, so the show I said started at 10 went then I went it became it was the number one show all of a sudden and, the agent called me up, and he said Sir, I remember 6:00 in the morning I was in bed. He said, sir, the show just went to number one. I'd love to see you because I think I'm entitled to more money. I said you didn't want me to do the show. Well, not really. I mean, I was OK. He said I'd really like more money. I said Jim, I like you very much, Jim you're, fired, get out Anyway. I had 14 great seasons. over about 11 years, because it was so, it was so successful. They kept it. They would have run it remember when they did the three hours. The whole night was The Apprentice. I said, wait a minute, Gone With The Wind they mentioned, the movie, the second time. Gone With The Wind is shorter. They had the apprentice on for three hours. I said even I, it's too long. You can't put it up for three. You had to leap a little bit like, I want to come back next week, but they had it on for three weeks, we did fantastically with it. Comcast did great. NBC did great. They wanted me to sign for another three years. I said No I'm going to run for President. That was actually the time when I knew I was going to run, because you know they were paying a lot of money and whether you're rich or not, it's still a lot of money. I don't care how rich you are to lots of millions and millions of dollars, and I said No, I'm going to run for President, and I did that, but from the day I ran, they went from being, you know, wonderful, they were nice, they were, you know they were nice. I guess, if I didn't do well with the show they wouldn't have been nice because they weren't nice to other people that failed. You know, people that didn't have good ratings. At businesses, a very simple business, if you have good ratings, you can treat them like garbage. If you have bad ratings, you can say, sir, I really respect you so much. Get out of here. Get him out of my yard. They're very ruthless people, but Comcast is a rotten company. They forgot totally and they are worse than CNN. I will tell you that right now, Comcast is worse than CNN. We should call it Comcast because that's their beautiful maiden name, Comcast. They're, worse than CNN I'll, tell you something about CNN Jake Tapper today. He put out now. I know you don't like him. I know who do who likes him? Who the hell can like? I think his wife likes him. Actually, I really believe she does. But let me just tell you he put out a couple of social media posts today, because I never call it tweet. I call it social media because it's much bigger than tweet. What we have dance convener, the great dance of you know. We have on five sides we're number one on Twitter, we're number one on Facebook in the whole world. In the whole world. So it's powerful, but Jake Tapper put out some things basically saying, I believe it, that's the way I read it, that the new Russian thing that started yesterday. That Putin wants to be sure that Trump wins. Give me a break. Give me a break. But Jake Tapper said, it ain't so, and if he did say that because there were a little complex, you know, they can turn him around or when Zucker sees him and said, why did you put that? I want that deleted and I want you to do a different one, but he did say that, so I respect that because it's another hoax story, but we're standing up for the defense of our Constitution, for our freedom and democracy itself. You know that. I got to get that. Hey Bobby. Bobby, see that guy? I love the shirt. Bobby, I don't know, it looks like a nice guy. Can you please walk him up? Even if you have about five. Come here. Come here, come on, come here. You got to see this shirt. You got to see this shirt, I love it. I've got to order me one that I can right, right come on come on up here he looks safe. He doesn't look like he's going to start a fistfight. He's a good fan, I guess. You got to see this shirt, I love it. Is there any place that's more fun than a Trump rally, right? How many rallies have you been to? 80? He said 80 rallies. Come up here. Come, come up. Look at these two guys. These guys are serious. These are serious fans, right? Are you with him? Are you with him? Are you with him? You're with him, come on come up here.  look at this guy. Wow, I just said, how long have you two been together? I figured they'd say you know, he met her at the rally in Colorado. Can you believe it? Do you believe it? Man, then he get lucky? They both got lucky right? They both. Well it's cool. Now I just see so much stuff out here, It's genius actually. While the extreme left has been wasting America's time with vile hoaxes, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border, lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion and creed. As you heard, we added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone. Way above anticipated schedule. And that begs 7 million new jobs since the election. The number is supposed to be under 2 million, and we added 7 million and remember, if I give you wrong numbers, the fake news is going to have headlines. Trump gave you. Right, I mean it's very tough. I've got to be very careful. Even if I give you wrong in the wrong way, they'll say it was wrong. I said Yeah, but it was wrong in the low way. No, that's not good, either. Got to be exactly very precise with these characters. The Democrats don't have to be, but we have to be. We've destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate, 100% we killed the founder and leader of ISIS. Al Baghdadi is dead. Al Baghdadi is dead. 17 years in look for him. 17 years. Al Baghdadi. One of the first things I did when I came in, you know, he's the founder of ISIS, and when I came in three years ago, ISIS was all over the place and I said you've got to knock it out. We knocked it out of Syria, Iraq and other places really doctored 100%. Remember, I want to leave. I said all right, we were at 96% and 98, then 99%, I said, let some of these other countries do it. When you say, right? So what happened, is I wanted to leave and they said no, no, no. We want 100%. So we wait and stayed. We got 100% that we moved them all out of Syria, except we did keep the oil. You noticed that, right? We kept it. So, they said he left soldiers in Syria. I did, to keep the oil if you don't mind, which is why we should have done in Iraq too, by the way. I would have done that and make it a lot of money with all that oil, but, you remember that whole thing, that whole, I said you got to find out Baghdadi. I've been saying that actually for two years. I had a lot of other things to do the first year like fight off the Democrats, these crazy Democrats with their hopes, with their hopes. Think of it, if they use their genius, because they are a genius at that stuff, right? they're really good, they can take nothing. They can take a perfect phone call made to the Ukrainian President, who said very specifically, there was no pressure. He didn't even know what's going on, and they can take this perfect call. Thank goodness, I had a transcriber. Do you agree with it? Because the fake whistle blower, the fake whistle blower, said that the call was totally different than what the call was. So when I released the call, when I released the transcripts, they died. They said, oh, we got a problem. They never thought I was going to do it, but I had no choice, I had to because I had to show they're liars. But think of it, they can take something like that. A perfect phone call or they'll take just out of thin air. They can make something up and they ended up today, a front page, New York Times. They used to call it the eighth column. That's the big column on the right. I don't know the papers become so small, I don't know if they have an eighth column anymore. You said the eighth column was a big deal right. That was the big deal. Today, It's too narrow, I think, they're, probably, after I'm gone, they won't have any columns. That's why eventually they got to support me. Eventually, the Times and The Washington Post, which will be dead as a doornail after I leave, and the CNN, it'll be an obsolete business. The cable business. MSDNC will be out of business. You know, cable was supposed to be obsolete and now they're doing the highest numbers they've ever done. If an airplane goes down with 700 people, they don't cover it. If it's not Trump related, they don't cover it. It's got to be Trump or Trump related, so the plane goes down and it's total devastation. If a ship goes down, if the Titanic, if the Titanic equivalent went down, they wouldn't cover it. Unless I was on the sucker. They wouldn't cover it. The fake news would not cover the equivalent of the Titanic, but you know what, they're going to do before the election, they're going to say we want to just say something, we're going to endorse the President. You know why, because they'll be out of business. Can you imagine if they had to cover mini Mike? I don't think. I think he's gone, but you know what, he'll spend another 500 million. Don't forget, I spent 70 and I won of my money. In other words, they said, and this was in The New York Times. I said it the other night in Colorado. I spent $70 million -- So far, I spent almost $500 million in order to get embarrassed by Pocahontas, and she's mean. Isn't she? You see that? Do you see the anger on her face? That nervous energy seems like a jumping up and down? She's a mess. No she's mean right? Right? See that face is just you want to get him. She said, I get him. I want to see those agreements. You open up those agreements, this poor guy probably signed a hundred of them, and, each one is a disaster. He said, I don't want to open those agreements. Nobody told me this was going to happen. So actually said, nobody told me. Get me out of here. You know after the debate he went backstage, fired a lot of people. He said, how the hell did you get me into this thing? But anyway, the Pocahontas was really mean, but she's going to be easy. I hope it's her she's not going to be her. She made a little comeback, the other night, because she took many Mike to the cleaners, but it's not going to be her. It can't be put at edge. I don't think Alfred E. Neumann, ladies and gentlemen, introducing President Alfred E. Neuman, but she nobody knows because you're all too young, nobody knows who Alfred. It's Mad Magazine. They all said no, Howdy Doody. See, Nobody knows who Alfred E. Neuman is. Only the real aficionados, they're the ones that they love it, but that's only 15% of the crowd, right? Am I right? Better than Howdy Doody. How do you do it. He's got to worry about his own city, it's going to hell, so, he's got to work because that city's got a lot of problems. I don't get, I don't get the whole thing, but he's not a bad debater. I will say: he's probably the best up there. A birdie is too emotionally screaming going crazy, and Biden is angry. Biden is angry, everything's, anger, gee. I ha ha ha, and that's what happens when you can't get the words out? No, it does. That's what happens right when you can't get the words out, you get angry. You get angry cause you can't get the words. That might happen to me someday. Can you imagine if that happened to me? Man, Would I be a bad guy? I'd be the meanest man in history. Now, but Biden is very angry. He gets angrier and angrier and angrier. He's changed and then he have the time here he said, Tom Steyer. Tom Steyer, Mr. impeachment. How did that work out Tom? Thank you very much for the great poll numbers between him and nervous Nancy. How did that work out? This schmuck spends $250 million. He ends up with one-third of a percent in Iowa, but maybe that you know that could be Rick cause they still don't have any idea what he got. Maybe he won Iowa. They took it away from him. Now, but he was substantially below it said, all they know it said 1% and an arrow left. So, he spent $250 million, Tom Steyer. Never heard of this guy. Who is he? Where did he get his money? Who is he? You know, he was in the coal business. Did you know that this guy? This guy, this phony is a big environmentalist. He made his money a lot of it in the coal business. Nobody knows that, but he's a fake. Remember when he walked up to Bernie the other day? Hi Bernie. Hi, oh and he was having a fight with Pocahontas, right? This is the greatest. Mark Burnett said, this is the greatest reality show in history. He said you could take the apprentice and you can take Survivor, and you could take every other reality show ever made. Multiply it times ten thousand and you still don't have what we have, and even the casts. He didn't say this, you got the perfect President. You got the perfect first lady, how about the first one. You got the perfect kids. The kids, so those beautiful kids, my beautiful kids. They had such a great life before I did this. Sorry. kids, sorry. My beautiful Ivanka, she had such a great life. She had a company that was selling shoes and everything you could sell. She just put her name on it, and she said Daddy, does it matter. I want to come to Washington and help people get jobs, and, she left the company, and you know when you leave a company, all of a sudden, it doesn't do as well. I wouldn't say that I exactly helped talking about the wall, other things, but she left the company. Came to Washington and she said 500,000 jobs, that was her goal and she did that in the first month. She actually did. She's gotten these great companies like Wal-Mart and many others, Exon. She's gotten them to take millions of people. She's now over 15 million jobs, where they train people and bring them into the companies, that's incredible. 15 million and she's smart. You know, she's got it figured out, but not most people care, but she does but, but all they do is give them heat. They work so hard and could you imagine, you take you take Biden's son? Can you imagine your idea with all these big companies that these great, great countries? I think I could get my son's 25 board ships for millions of dollars apiece. My kids would be better, but you know what, we don't do any of that stuff. We don't do that stuff. We don't do it. The kid got $3 million, 83,000 a month and he didn't have a job until his father became vice president, and speaking of vice presidents -- and speaking of vice presidents, OK, and speaking also of reality television, because this is the greatest show of all time, right? Look at this, look, we told you last night, little change your folks were going to move it up from 8:00 o'clock in the evening till 12:00 o'clock in the afternoon. Little change, just a minor because I have to get back to Washington and work. I feel guilty. This is too much fun, but speaking of Vice Presidents and speaking of perfect Vice Presidents, you know, if you become President, the first thing you have to do is choose a really horrible, horrible Vice President. So if the idiots ever want to impeach you they have to say, I can't impeach him, look, we got look, we have. I had the perfect Vice President. I have the greatest in the world. I have the greatest Vice President. I got the great ones. I said, you know, I can't do that. I picked a great guy who's done a fantastic job. He's been a great Vice President, but it is true. I could have picked. I'll, give you names, but, I don't want to do that because I don't want to hurt his feelings, but there are plenty of them out there, mostly out there, and I don't want to do that. But Mike Pence has been great. But tell me, is it perfect casting, the whole thing? And this isn't about casting this is about real life. But when Mark Burnett said to me the other day, he said, the greatest reality show of all times, times a million, and he starts exactly except for one thing, we work our asses off and we are doing things like nobody has ever done before. So we took out Al-Baghdadi, and then, we "
"Wow, thank you.  So where else would you like to be, but a Trump rally, right? Hello, Colorado. We love Colorado, this beautiful place. And I'm thrilled to be back in Colorado Springs. I've spent a lot of time here, over the years. Beautiful place, beneath the majestic peaks. It's true of the Rocky Mountains, with thousands of terrific, hardworking, great American patriots. With your help, this November we are going to defeat the radical democrats and we are going to win Colorado in a landslide. And you are going to help us get Cory Gardner across that line because he's been with us a 100%. There was no waver. He's been with us. There was no waiver with Cory. We appreciate it, thank you, Cory. Thank you. This month, we mark a very special anniversary. Seventy-five years ago this week, our brave United States Marines landed on the shores of Iwo Jima and began one of the bloodiest battles of the Second World War. It was a rough one. Tonight, it's our great privilege to be joined by three of the heroes of the battle of Iwo Jima: James Blaine, Donald Whipple and John Thurman.  Great, great patriots, very brave people. And tonight, we also honor the life and extraordinary -- really of a very extraordinary American hero. One of the last known survivors of the attack on the USS Arizona at Pearl Harbor on December 7th 1941. He was in the Oval Office just recently. A little while ago, about a year and a half ago, and we just want to pay our respects. OK? You know, it is Donald Stratton, well-known guy, just passed away. Sadly, sadly, he passed away just a few days ago. He was going to be here. Passed away a few days ago, but he was great. I have a beautiful picture of him right outside and we're going to honor him and his family. Great, great gentlemen. So we were going to have four. We have three and we want to thank you for being here. Thank you all. Thank you. Because America is truly a land of heroes. On behalf of the grateful nation, I would like to recognize the many veterans of the Vietnam War and the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, who are here this evening. Got a lot of them. Great people, great people. This is a truly incredible time for America, we have the best economy in our history, the most prosperity of any country. We are doing better than any country in the world that is not even close. And we've rebuilt our military over the last three years. Don't tell anybody, but we spent two and a half-trillion dollars, but when it comes to our military and our safety and our security, we don't worry about budgets. Right? We don't worry about budgets. We had to rebuild it, it was depleted, it was in bad shape, it was old, it was tired, we have the best people in the world, but that old equipment. Now, we have brand new jets, we have brand new missiles and rockets. We have everything. All made in the USA. Right?  In my State of the Union address, I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback. That's what we're doing, our country is stronger today than ever before. After three years of ridiculous witch hunts and scams and partisan Democrat crusades, the radical left's attempt to poison our democracy and overturn the last election have totally failed. They have been a complete flop and we today have the highest poll numbers we've ever had. Today it just came out. And I don't know if anybody watched last night's debate. It got very big ratings, and you know what? Mini Mike didn't do well last night. I was gonna send him a note, saying, ""It's not easy doing what I do, is it?"" Not easy. It's not easy Mike. It's not easy for any of them. Now, Mike didn't do too well, he went way down. It's all right. Mini Mike. How about Klobuchar? Did you see her? She choked, she choked. She choked. She couldn't breathe. Alfred E. Neuman looked at her and said, ""Something's slightly derogatory."" And she said, ""Are you accusing me of being dumb?"" Who would make a statement like that? Because that's really what he was doing, but he doesn't want to say that. No, no, how about that? Are you saying I'm dumb? That was the end of her campaign in my book, you know. You don't -- to say that even if it's true, you don't say that, right? You know, they had a crazy person. On -- today, on one of the Fox shows. I tell you, Fox doesn't treat us the way they used to. But we have the great show on Hannity, we do. Now, we have Laura and Tucker, and we have in the morning Fox and Friends, Steve and Angel. And Brian's gotten much better, he's moving up. Now, we have the great Lou Dobbs. Lou Dobbs says, ""He's the greatest president ever."" The great Lou Dobbs, he says -- Lou Dobbs, a year and a half, two years ago, he said, ""He's the greatest since Reagan."" Then he said, about six months ago, ""He's better than Reagan."" And then he said, a few nights ago, ""He's the greatest we've ever had."" I said, I said, ""Does that include Lincoln and George Washington?"" He said, ""That includes them all."" That's Lou Dobbs. Like  Lou Dobbs. Then you've got , and you've got Jesse Waters. How about Jesse? And Judge Jeanine and even Greg Gutfeld. You know Greg? Greg, hated us, right? But now he says, ""Look, whether I like him or not. He gets it done, it's all about getting it done."" Right? We're getting it done. Nobody's ever done, what we've done. Now, but Fox says -- and I don't know, it's different. It was different. In the old days, it was better for us. It was better for us. But it's okay, we'll win anyway. We'll win anyway. No, but they had this woman on -- Neil Cavuto doesn't treat us good, Neil Cavuto. He's not too good. She said, ""I don't like him. Nobody likes him."" He's -- right now, so you had, you know, remember last -- in the ratings, you remember who was last in the ratings? He got fired, right? You remember, right? Remember? He's gone and now Neil's taking his place. Neil's actually a nice guy, but you know, he doesn't like Trump too much. And he put this woman on today, and she said, ""Donald Trump, didn't do well in the debates and he won."" Because she was referring to Mike Bloomberg, sometimes referred to as, Mini Mike, Mini Mike. And I said, ""Wait a minute, I want every debate."" It's true. And we sent them polls, poll after poll, after poll. Not only won them, but won them by a lot, I won every debate. I'm not saying, I'm just saying every poll. You know, they do those polls right after three, four or 500,000 people. Time magazine -- I said, ""Nobody's allowed to do that, you can't do that."" We're at enough of a disadvantage with the fake news. You know, they make up 90% or so.  So where is Dan Scavino? Where is Scavino? Does anyone know who Dan Scavino is? Dan, bring me those pages up here, bring those pages up. See if you can get them. Go get them. Just it's such fake news, it's so disgusting. You know what? They do better if they told the truth, do you agree? They do better. Someday in 10, 14, 18, 22 years when I'm gone, when we leave office in 26 years or so, they're going to miss us? They're going to miss us. You know, I told this story that a month before I ran, 2016, I was thinking about it. I said to my wife -- who's become a great first lady. People love her. You know, they said, ""It's one of the greatest fields ever assembled."" And I said, ""What the hell should I run for, if they're so great?"" But I remember, holding up the New York Times and it was like a leaflet that you're given at a certain -- like a supermarket, right? It's like, you know, the thing was blowing in new -- it had no -- where was dead, and now it's successful again. But when we leave, it's all of us, we leave together, we're unified. This is the most unified, the Republican Party has ever been. And when we leave, the New York Times, thank you, the great Dan Scavino the most powerful man in politics. Hey Dan. So Zuckerberg left, who is No. 1 in the world on Facebook? And I'm saying this in front of the fake news, because if I'm wrong, you're going to report me, right? Who is No. 1 in the world on Facebook? He walked in, but that's us. He walked in for -- we had dinner recently, just because I want them to pay taxes. I want to find out what's going on. But he walked in, he's smart and he said, ""I just want to congratulate you."" Small dinner, a few people. He said, ""You're No. 1 in the world, in Facebook."" I said, ""That's nice."" I said, ""Who is No. 2?"" He said, ""Prime Minister Modi of India."" I said, ""Wait a minute, wait a minute."" He's got 1.5 billion people and we have 350. So he should be No. 1, but we're never going to give up that position of No. 1 in the world, for our country, for Facebook, for Twitter, for anything. And they still haven't figured it out, they have not figured it out. But look at all that press, look at all that press. By the way, how bad were the Academy Awards this year? Did you see it?  And the winner is, a movie from South Korea. What the hell was that all about? We got enough problems with South Korea with trade. On top of it, they give them the best movie of the year. Was it good? I know. You know, I'm looking for like where -- where -- let's get Gone With The Wind. Can we get my Gone With The Wind back, please? Sunset Boulevard, so many great movies. The winner is, from South Korea. I thought it was best foreign film, right? That's foreign movie. No, who is that? But on -- did this ever happened before? And then you have Brad Pitt, I was never a big fan of his. He got upset, a little wise guy's statement. . Little wise guy, he's a little wise guy. Anyway, but we're doing well. But here, I'll just showed this real quick, right. So this horrible journalist, she's is a real -- you know, she's a Trump hater. She gets -- you know, she's worth zero ratings. Nobody watches her, but she said, she was trying -- look, Bloomberg made a fool out of himself last night. He choked. Here's another one, he's going, ""Huh, huh. Huh. Oh, I can't breathe. I can't breathe."" Don't ask me the question, please. I look at my wife, I said, ""Let's send them a little note. It's not so easy up there to do what I did."" Right? Not so easy. But this woman who's a third rate, fourth-rate, she's been with everybody. Every year, she's like with a different group, but I won't use the name because we'll make it too famous. It actually plays to their advantage, but she's third rate and she's on the lowest-rated show on Fox, Neil Cavuto. So he lied, that's why. So she said, ""Donald Trump, didn't get good ratings. He didn't do well in the polls."" He said, he didn't do well, in the debates. She said that, we were defeated in the debates. While I defeated crooked Hillary every time and, by a lot. So wait. So.  Yeah, she's crooked as a three dollar bill. You know, I was going, ""Whatever happened to the 33,000 e-mails, whatever happened?"" Thirty-three thousand, she deleted them, and you know, as it, washed them and she didn't get in trouble. Can you imagine, if a Republican did that? They would want to bring back the death penalty, right? Two standards, but I think, things are happening. I think, you know, I said, draining the swamp. I just never knew how deep it was. We have more garbage in the swamp than you would ever believe, and this is part of the swamp. So what happens? She said, ""Donald Trump, didn't do well in the debates."" Now, you know, remember my answer? Rosie O'donnell, right? First question I've ever -- and we took down the House, then the second Brett Perry SB. I had to raise the hand, I'm the only one I guess that raised the hand, right? And the place went crazy, because I was the only one telling the truth. OK? Turned out, I was the only one telling. And you know, the people get it, but she said, I didn't do well on the debate. I said, ""Really? I won every single debate."" We had 15 or 40 debates and we had the Presidential debates with crooked Hillary against myself. So here's one -- I don't want it. You know, I -- I am a little guilty, because these are all my friends, right? A lot of them are my friends. Now, they weren't my friends then, they were my mortal enemy. Try to be friends when you're competing against somebody, right? We are right about that. So here's Donald Trump, 67, the next one was 13%. The next one was 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 2%, 2%, 1%, 1% and 0. All right, that's time magazine, all right, that's time. They don't like me, I don't like them either, by the way. Although actually, I do like the new owner. This year, I got beaten out by Greta. You know Greta?  Last year, I got beaten out, I think, I've I've won it, but when the world evolves around all of us, we should be chosen. There's nothing wrong with it, right? I mean we've won it, but we should win it every single year. Let's face it. And now they call it person of the year, they don't call it, man of the year. And I know the women out there say, ""Isn't that nice?"" But a lot of the women out there don't like it. They don't like it. We could have a woman of the year and a man of the year. I like that. OK, here's the Drudge Report. Drudge is starting to trip me good again. He started to like me again. I like him. Look, Trump and Ted Cruz, I can say, he came in second. You know, he was a great debater and Marco came in third and a guy. I don't like much and they don't like him much in Ohio, either. Kasich, Kasich, he was way down, way down. Okay, look. Who won? Trump? OK. Here's another one, look. Again a different one, Time Magazine. Trump: 33%. Ben Carson, good man, he was down. Marco, Jeb, Ted, Carly Fiorina, name I haven't heard in a long time. What happened to Carly? And Rand, good poll. Here's the story, look, but way up, way up. Look at it. Here's another one, look at it. Trump: 46%. I didn't make this up. Here's another one, this is a different debate. I don't know, they're all different. I want every one of them. Look, Trump, I just took these at random. 46%, Second, 5%, 3%, 5%, 3%, 9%, 5%, 11%, Trump 46%. Here's another one, CNBC. Well, you know the market it's been up there. They've actually been not so bad, and Joe Kernan is a good guy. He is a good guy. Some of the rest, I don't care for too much. Becky's like, she plays it a little bit down the middle, right? Which is OK. Trump, almost 50%, then they have all the rest of them, 14, for, three, two, 2.8, 2.54, 1.9, I'm not gonna give you the names. I won't tell you that, I got 48.8 and Jeb Bush -- Jeb Bush got 1.1. The rest I'm not going to talk about, but he hasn't been exactly a great supporter. You know, sort of a never-Trump or I get. So Jeb at 1.9, 1.1 and Trump 48, that's another one. Oh here's a nice one, here's a nice one. Look at this, look at this. Trump 70%, next one is 18%, next one is seven, four, three, three, three, two, one, one, one. Trump didn't do well in the debates, see, they are fake news.  Here's another one, Trump kicked ass, Trump kicked ass. Trump 48, No. 2 with six. Here's another one, Trump 75.6, Crooked Hillary is 24%. This was against Crooked Hillary. So look at that, Trump was 74.6, Crooked Hillary Clinton was 24.1. Trump was 80%, Crooked Hillary was 18% and I've got this woman. You know who it is, right? And you know -- you know, nobody knows it,  but everybody knows. Neil Cavuto, she has no credibility, and neither do you know Neil Cavuto. Here's another one, Crooked Hillary -- and by the way, one is a FOX poll, one is bright Bart, one is a Drudge Report, one is The Patch, one is Syracuse.com, one is public opinion. It's a good one but look at these numbers, Trump 92. What is it? So I'm winning every poll. I beat Crooked Hillary. Here's the one, Trump 61, Crooked Hillary 39. OK? That's what it is. And then I turn on the damn show, on Fox, again, it's not the same. It was much better, it really was. It was much better. I turned on Fox and I've got this third rate political journalists, if you call her that, saying, ""Trump, did very poorly in the debates, but he became Fred."" No, I did great in the debates. I became President because of the debates because unlike Mini Mike, I could answer questions. And here's the final one, and I could get you another 15. These are all the ones that taken right after people call in. Hundreds of thousands of people, they call in Time Magazine and CNBC. So here's a CNBC, Crooked Hillary Clinton, 39%, Donald Trump 61%, and then this stupid person said, I didn't debate. Well now, look you know, I don't mind. And you can have bad debates, but I won every single debate. And then I -- then I listened to this, then three and a half four years later, I have to listen to a person saying, how we didn't do well because these people are among the most dishonest people anywhere in the world. Take it, take it. Take this.  OK, let's get back to business. Now I feel good. Now I feel good. She's a third rate journalist. Let's go, we're standing up in defense of our Constitution, our freedom and democracy itself, right? While the extreme Left has been wasting America's time and doing all sorts of vile hoaxes. We went through hoaxes, we went through the impeachment scam and by the way, Cory was with us all the way. He didn't move, he didn't budge. He said it's a lot of bull. He said it's a lot of bull. But while they're doing that stuff -- and you know, we're working with the cloud. We're working with these people -- they want to take you out. They want to change the results, they got caught spying. Let's say it like it is, right? They got caught spying on our election fake news. Hey fake news, take the cameras for a change and show in the room and show them behind it. Go ahead, show them the room. Show them the room.  You see, they never do it, including Fox by the way. Fox, is not that much better. We just got lucky because we have some -- all that high rated shows, are the shows that like Trump. All their loser shows like Cavuto are the shows that don't like Trump. How is Shep Smith doing lately, by the way? How's Shep Smith? He had the lowest ratings and now Cavuto took his place, so that's OK. But they never show the room. My wife, a great first lady, she goes. I say, I say, ""Hi honey. Did you watch the debate?"" ""Yeah."" ""How did the room look? Was that?"" Because last night, we -- I think we turned away 21,000 people. We had an arena that it held like 12:00, but we fill up the basketball courts, right? Or the ice rink. We had to have 15, 60,000 thousand people. It was, like on fire, you all saw it. It was great. And she said to me, she said, ""Darling, how did you do?"" I said, ""I did great."" I said, ""Did you see the arena?"" She said, ""No, they never showed the arena."" You know?  You know that guy Dana White at UFC? Well, you know, I won't tell you about him yet, but he's a brilliant guy, right? I mean, he sold his crazy fighters. I mean, bomb, bomb, bomb. $4 billion he got, with 14 US, great people. But you know what? They're always showing it's full, it's full. These fakers back there, they don't want people. But I'll tell you what my wife said, they don't show it. But you can imitate 15,000 people when it comes to the lowest score. Look, they won't show you, they never show you. And we've never had an empty seat from the day I came down the escalator, not one. And what these guys do, and what these guys do if Mr. and Mrs. Jones, sitting right up there, beautiful couple, if she said, ""Darling, I'm sorry. There's nothing I can do about it, darling. I have to go to the bathroom."" He said, Darling, I'll walk with you."" The cameras glove on to those seats, they glove on and they say, ""There were two empty seats. Trump didn't fill up the room."" These are the worst people, but when I told them to spin around those cameras, they stayed that way. Now, if we had a protester somewhere in the arena, it could be up in that corner where it's loaded up with people, those cameras they can do. They look like a pretzel. They look like a pretzel. They want to find this trouble. Those same guys could -- it could cover anything. I used to think, well, it's the equipment. It's very rigid they can't turn it. And then some idiot from up in the corner starts screaming stupid stuff, because that's dangerous in this room, to be honest. We don't have it coming. They only pick on the guys that are all by themselves and aren't fighters, but if somebody up there does something, those cameras turn around spin around like a pretzel. They bend, boom, they get -- so that was the end of my theory that we have rigid equipment. Now and by the way, I told them turnaround, not one of those cameras turned around to show the room. Because it's fake news.  While the extreme left has been wasting America's time with vile hoaxes, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion, and tree, right? We added another 225,000 brand new beautiful jobs last month. Way, way, way above what our great geniuses back there thought it would be. Two hundred and twenty-five thousand, think of it. We right now have more people working in our country than at any time in the history of our country. Almost 160 million people. And right now, since the election, we go by the election. Don't forget, a lot of things happened when we won. From the day we won that beautiful November day, the most exciting night in the history of television, including UFC fights, including UFC fights. The most exciting night the biggest rating in the history of television, worldwide they were watching. I was -- I have friends in Paris and London. What are you doing? I'm watching, you know, 3 in the morning, 2 in the morning, 5 in the morning. They are watching, the whole world was watching. That was the most exciting television that anybody ever say. Even ESPN, some guy on ESPN said, ""This is the most exciting event I've ever seen."" And all he does is watch sporting events and big ones. But since the election, since the election, $7 billion brand new beautiful jobs have been added. And we've invested more than $2 trillion into that military that we talked about and we created something that's very exciting. And we have our great new who's on our -- who's on our -- I tell you, who's on our list of most incredible man you've ever seen. The sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force. And I will be making a big decision for the Space Force, as to where it's going to be located, and I know you want it. We'll be making that decision toward the end of the year. When I was here I did -- I did your -- I met -- I was up at the Air Force Academy, and I did -- I greeted those kids. They were so great. I did the commencement address. Does anybody did the commencement address? And the general said, ""Sir, would you like to shake hands with the cadets?"" I said, ""Does everyone else do it, president?"", ""Ah, yes, sir."" But he didn't say I should shake 10 hands. I said, ""So they do. How many do you have?"", ""Sir, we have 1,156 cadets."" I'd say, ""You mean, other people do it?"", ""Yes, sir."" But they don't do 1,156, they'll do, 30, 40. They'll take the Top 10 out of the class. I said, ""I'll do it."" I stood there for two-and-a-half hours while the sun is blazing. True. And I shook 1,156 hands. And you know, a lot of these kids are very strong physically. In fact, you have one of them as an example. He was the winner of the Home Run Derby. Did you know that? College -- think of that. The College Home Run Derby. I said, ""Let me see you. I want to see what you look like."" He stands up, uniforms everything else. And by the way, did something for Air Force, but they do something for all of the academies. If you were a great athlete and they had a hard time recruiting, although they've done well. If you're a great athlete you can't, you know, we wanted to, sort of, get them to go, but they didn't because they didn't want to serve five years in the military, and then they'd go into the NFL or baseball. So I had one of the teams and they said, ""Sir, give us the waiver, sir."" They'd been after the waiver. You know what the waiver is? That means that if you're a great athlete you could go to the Air Force Academy or Army, Navy, the Coast Guard. You could do -- You can go to one of our service academies, I did the rule and we got it through Congress and you don't have to serve. You go directly into the major leagues into the NFL, and you serve your time after when you get out. Isn't that correct? And the Army coach is a great guy, all great guys, navy coach, the army coach said, ""Sir, if you do that, we can compete with anybody because we lost a lot of great athletes."" He said, you know, we just can't do that. Now, they serve their time afterwards. Isn't that great? And we did it, they've been trying to get that for so many years. But I love that. I love that group of people. I saw this guy from the Home Run Derby and I shook hands, oh, shook hands and they come up and they're strong people and they're shaking and they're like side. You know, they're a little nervous, maybe they're meeting the President. They're a little nervous and they're strong. They get big strong hands and they say -- and I'm saying, you know, ""Hello, sir, thank you.""  ""What are you doing?"" ""I'm the captain of my wrestling team, sir? I admire you greatly, sir. Thank you, sir."" It's like. And I'm trying to act like it doesn't hurt. By the end of the day, I'm gonna. But we did it and then I said, I said, I said, wait a minute. I said, ""General, no other President could do that. The Presidents don't do that."" He said, ""No, they do sir, but they stop usually at around 50."" ""Oh, that's great."" But I love the Air Force Academy and you have all of the infrastructures. So you're being very strongly considered for the space command. So.  And actually, I have to say this. I think I can say this, Mr. senator, but the governor showed up at the plane today, your governor, Democrat.  No, no, but in all fairness, he showed up because he wanted the lobby to see if they could get it. That's OK, that's all right. And we are going to be making that decision, Cory. When we make that decision, all right? OK, but we've destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate, 100%. We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi he's dead, he's dead. And we just killed the world's number one terrorist Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of Terror forever, forever and ever.  He was the king of the roadside bomb, right? You know, when you see these young men and in some cases women, no legs, no arms. They get it at 92% of them were from Soleimani and then they started making them. They had great detection. We had these guys great detection, then, all of a sudden, the detection wasn't working because they started making a matter of plastic, instead of metal. So they're blowing the guys up with the -- with the scopes. So they had the scopes on and that happened recently because they started making another plastic, real scum. But he's gone, he's evil, he's dead and America is respected again like never before. But as we keep on winning Washington, Democrats keep on losing their minds, they've gone nuts. That's why millions of registered Democrats, voters, people that were with the Democrats for a long time, they're leaving their party to join our movement. They're joining our great Republican Party. We have more enthusiasm than any parties had in the last 50 years. And don't believe stories and don't believe polls, because the polls are worse than the stories they give phony polls. I got a call two weeks ago, the great state of Texas. They love me and I love them. Remember Beto, remember? I was born for this. I was born. I said, ""Any guy that says that, they got problems."" Well, he had problems. So he's from Texas, he had a little problem. He came out against -- well, I guess the Bible and guns. Abraham Lincoln couldn't win Texas, if you're against, think of it. So he's against religion, he's against guns and he's against oil. Somehow, that doesn't play, but they had listened to this one because this happened four years ago. You remember? Donald Trump is in trouble in Texas. I don't think so, I don't think so. And then they announced tonight, right? Eight o'clock, the polls are closed and you know, they only announced very -- if you're really going to win by a lot. Otherwise, it takes all night. The polls have closed in the great state of Texas. Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas. But they had Alfred E Neuman, booty judge, a little booty judge. I said, ""I've had you up to here."" They had a little booty judge, leading Donald Trump in Texas, these people. But very close, he said, it's too close to call. This is a poll, where booty judge. So a friend of mine from Texas, a big powerful, strong guy, real Texan. He's, got the cowboy hat. I'd love to wear that and I wouldn't have to go by air so by. I wouldn't need Hairspray, right? I'd love those Texas hats. I don't know if we'd get away with it in Washington. That's why , but I love him. This guy wears that big hat, the biggest hat, he's a big guy and he's -- he's interviewed by somebody who's -- listen, I don't know much about politics, but I can tell you one thing, booty judge is not tied with the President. The President is leading him like by 20 points. It's like, I said the last time. Nobody is leading Trump in Texas, and you know what? Nobody is even close to us in the great state of Colorado. We're leading big. Right? Nobody. With your energy, enthusiasm, this November, specifically, it's November 3rd is the big day. And this is going to be as big and I can't say bigger, because what was bigger than that they came from the hills, they came from the mountains, they came out of the rivers, they came all over the place. Great people -- they just never saw anybody, they wanted to vote for -- women would come in they hadn't voted in 20 years. Great women, beautiful women, strong women, smart women, wives. No, no incredible. And they love our country and they work hard and they pay their taxes and they work and they're -- You know, we're the elite, just so you're -- they're not the elite, we're the elite. And you know what? They'd show up, they got Trump bandanas along with our great Vice President, Mike Pence. Trump, Pence. And they got their hats now and they walk. These are people that were never political people. They never walk in. Now, they got 30 pins all over the chest. They've got their hats with the things and the Trump. And nobody's ever seen anything like it. It's really, it's a great revolution and we're turning this country around and I'm not saying anything can ever compete with 2016. But I think if we don't do it, a lot of what we've done -- and we're going to go over the jobs and the regulation cuts and what we've done for the vets, with choice and accountability. But you know what? They can undo it. But in four years, they can't undo it because that tree will be planted, it'll be solid, they're not going to be able to do it. So we got to win. And your second amendment is at stake, remember that. So this November, we're going to take back the House, we're going to hold the Senate and we are going to keep the White House. So we're thrilled tonight to be joined by many great leaders from across this incredible state and from all over the country. And I want to thank Mike Pence, I heard he gave a great speech. I never wanted to be too good. I never wanted to be too good. I said, ""Mike, take it easy."" It can't be too good. Mike is great, but we have Secretary David Bernhardt, Department of Interior. Thank you. Come on up here. He's great. What he's doing, by the way, he's the largest landlord by a factor of about 2,000 departments of the Interior. You're taking good care of Colorado, please? OK. He's -- he's a big deal in Colorado, right? He's a big deal. All those beautiful mountains and rivers and lakes, he's the guy. He better keep them nice and clean. Believe me, we like the environment more than anybody. We want clean water and we want clean air. And you have warriors, you had guys, they fought for us won 97 to nothing. We will win, now think of it, Republicans won 97 on the House at nothing. Congressman Ken Buck, come on up. Congressman Scott Tipton and Congressman Doug Lamborn. Thank you, Doug. And we're also joined tonight, by somebody that you really love. I mean, you -- and I love him too, but there's a reason, he's my son, Don Juni"
"Thank you very much, Phoenix. We love to be back. We'll be back a lot. We're going to win that election. Thank you very much. Hello, Phoenix. It's great being here in the great state of Arizona with thousands of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family and country. Thank you. Thank you. And with your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats, and we are going to win Arizona in a landslide. It's all over TV that the folks here tonight have helped a great World War II veteran into the arena. I don't know if he knows it, but he's right now the hottest celebrity in the world. I don't know what's going on here. He might even be hotter than Trump right now, I have to say. Did you see the scene? No, he's all over television, even fake news. CNN had him on. But they say he's a legitimate great hero of World War II. Ervin Julian. Ervin, thank you.  And I asked my son, Don, to get a couple of hats and get some things and give him to Ervin right now. And I want to thank you, really. That's a great honor. And thank you for the great job you've done. An American patriot. Thank you very much. Thank you, Don. How did Don do tonight? OK? He's good, a good guy, and he loves this country. So this is truly an incredible time for America. We have the best economy, the most prosperous country that we've ever had and the most powerful military anywhere in the world by far. It's my -- you remember the good time we had a week ago at the State of the Union? You remember that, yes? State of the Union. And that was my honor, but I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback. Our country is stronger today than ever before. And after three years of very unfair and ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades, it was the radical left's pathetic attempts to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy and overthrow our entire system of government. But guess what, they failed, and our poll numbers are higher today than they've ever been before. And we're standing up to the defense of our Constitution, our freedom and democracy itself. We're doing something that's never been done in the history of our country. This movement has never taken place, nothing like it ever, and the fake news can attest to it because if they thought I was saying the wrong thing, it would be out there immediately, be all over the place. It'd be all over the place. Trump exaggerates. That's terrible, what he says. There has never been a movement like this, and it began very early. It began in 2016 with that wonderful, beautiful night. You remember that, right, that beautiful night in November. And we're going to have another beautiful night in November, and this time, it's going to be November 3rd. Get ready, November 3rd, we're coming. We're coming. So we're having great polls. You're seeing the polls, except for some of the fake ones. And if I was treated fairly, meaning if you were treated fairly by the fake news, we'd be up 20 points higher in the polls. There wouldn't even be a competitive election. Unfortunately, it's probably going to be competitive, but I actually think we're going to win by a lot, just like we did last time. But I really believe we'd be up 20 points. I mean, all they do is negative, negative phony stuff, Russia, Russia, Russia, the impeachment hoax.  It's a hoax, but you know, we had great support from the Republican Party in the House. It was won 97 to nothing. And in the Senate, it was fifty-two and a half to a half. You know what the half was? A half wit. And while the extreme left has been wasting America's time with the hoaxes, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion and creed. And by the way, they turned away 21,000 people outside, so feel very good, feel very good. We haven't had an empty seat. You know what, we haven't had to -- we haven't had an empty seat, and this is a tribute to all of us because this is a movement like nobody's ever seen. But we haven't had an empty seat since your great -- and this is a great First Lady, came down the escalator with me in Trump Tower a long time ago. We haven't had an empty seat. From our rural communities to our inner cities, we're expanding the blessings of America to all of our citizens. We added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone. You saw that, the geniuses. You saw that. You saw that last month. They were doing predictions at one of the shows. What do you think? ""Well, I think 60,000."" ""What do you think?"" ""I think 100,000."" ""What do you think?"" ""I think 84,000."" These are the ones that tell you all about how to invest. ""What do you think?"" And then they came out 225,000, and the market goes up again. 225,000. So many manufacturing jobs, so many, that frankly were never going to come back. Remember, you need a magic wand, right? They came back. And remember this, we're paying interest. The past administration didn't pay interest. They pumped money in like it was candy, and we didn't pump money in. We took money out. Not that I was happy about that because I disagree with it because, frankly, if we kept the old practice, which frankly, some people could dispute one way or the other, we would have been up, in my opinion, another 10,000 points in the Dow. And we've said 144 records on the stock market in three years, 144 records, 144 records, record stock market. And you know that means? That your 401(k)s are up 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%. Now guys come up to me, said, ""Mr. President, I just want to thank you. My wife used to look at me like I was a total loser, sir. Every year, we lost money for years and years. She said, 'What the hell is wrong with you, Henry?' And this year, sir, l'm up 92%. She loves me again. She thinks I'm a genius. 92% 401(k). She thinks I'm a genius, sir. She loves me again."" Shows what money can do, right? Well, that makes, and think of this, 7 million new jobs since we were elected, we were elected. And when I took over, ISIS was all over the place, and we immediately started. We have destroyed 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We have kille the founder and leader of ISIS. al-Baghdadi is dead. And we just took out the world's top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever.  And the fake news doesn't want to tell you that. They don't want to tell you that. They don't want to tell you. In fact, you remember the dog, great dog, Conan. Wen we took out -- right, we love Conan. Conan's a tough dog. But when we took out al-Baghdadi, Conan, remember this, Conan got more publicity than President Trump. That's OK. They were looking for al-Baghdadi for 16 years. We found him, and we took him out. And last week, last week, we killed another one last week. The head of Al-Qaeda, he was gone, dead. And America is respected again, respected like never before. We're respected again. We're no longer the laughing stock that gets taken advantage by every country, including, by the way, our allies who, in many cases, take bigger advantage than our enemies. I will tell you that. They take big advantage but not so much anymore. We're winning. We're winning like never before. Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds. They hate the fact that we're winning. We're winning big. We're winning, winning, winning. And that is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement. They're joining our great Republican Party in droves. You see it all the time. I just spoke to some of your leaders. He said,""This is unbelievable, what's happening. This is unbelievable."" You know, there have never been rallies like that. Sleepy Joe Biden, the other day, had 68 people. And now they have a new member of the crew, Mini Mike, Mini Mike. No Boxes, we call him No Boxes. And I hear he's getting pounded tonight. You know, he's in a debate. I hear they're pounding him. He spent $500 million so far, and I think he has 15 points. It just came out. Hey, fake news, how many points is he at right now, 15? They won't tell you the truth.  They won't tell you the truth. MSDNC, MSDNC is worse than CNN. They're owned by a company called Comcast. You can have Comcast, a bunch of phonies, but MSDNC is worse than CNN, and they're all pretty bad.  Now they just came out with a poll. They just came out with a poll a little while ago. Mini Mike was at 15 and Crazy Bernie was at 31. That's a lot, and Mini Mike just spent $500 million, but the DNC, the DNC is going to take it away from Bernie again. And that's OK because we don't care who the hell it is. We're going to win. We're going to win. We have to. But let me tell you, these crooked politicians, they really took away three years from us because despite the fact, and nobody disputes it, that we've done more in three years with the tax cuts and regulation cuts and the military and the choice and everything, we've done more than any administration in history. We've done more. But think of it, think of it. We did it with phony witch hunts. We did it with the impeachment hoax over our head the whole time. We did it under circumstances that should never ever happen to another President again. But with your energy and enthusiasm this November, we're going to take back the House. We're going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House. So we're thrilled to be joined tonight by some of the best, greatest, I love them, leaders in America, Arizona leaders. I want to start -- come on up here, Governor Doug Ducey. Come on up here, Doug. Come on up here. Also, I call them warriors because they fought like hell. They worked with our future Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy. But we have some of your great warriors. Paul Gosar. Come up here, Paul. Come up here, Andy Biggs. Andy Biggs, Head of the Freedom Caucus. Andy Biggs. David Schweikert. David, come up here. A big, big star, you know about that, Doug. She became this monster star. She looked with such indignation at the other side, such disgust, Debbie Lesko. He'll be running someday. Is that your grandson? Wow. He'll be running someday, Arizona Senate President. You know that is, right? Karen Fann. Come up, Karen. Arizona House Speaker, Rusty Bowers; Vice President of the Navajo Nation, Myron Lizer; and Arizona Republican Party State Chair, Kelli Ward. Kelli Ward, come up. And we have a lot of other ladies, but we got to get back to speaking. Do me a favor. Before I introduce a very special guest, I'd like to ask your great governor. You know, he won by 16 points. It wasn't even a contest, and I see -- I'm very competitive. I want to beat him. Will you please get out to the polls, so we can beat him? But he's tough to beat. Doug Ducey, say a couple of words, please. Mr. President, we are going to keep Arizona red in 2020. We are going to return President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to the White House. We are going to return Martha McSally to the United States Senate, and we are going to keep our Republican majorities in our Congressional delegation and our state chambers. Mr. President, thank you for what you have done, for the cause of life, for what you have done for our economy and reducing regulations and for what you hav done for the United States Supreme Court. We're looking forward to working with you for four more years.  These are great people, great people. Thank you very much. So you know, before I introduce somebody very important to all of us, to me, also I have to say with us tonight is an Arizona hockey great, a friend of mine. He's a great golfer, too. He's a tough golfer, I'll tell you. He's tough to beat. He's tough as hell. And if you beat him in golf, he'll try and beat you physically. He doesn't care. He was the toughest hockey player, and he was one of these guys. He could beat you one way, and if he couldn't, he just beat them up, break and beat them up. And he's a friend of mine. He's a great guy. Jeremy Roenick. Thank you, Jeremy. He's a winner. We're also joined by Donald Junior and Kimberly, and they're great people, great. RNC Co-Chairman, Tommy Hicks, and RNC Finance Chairman, also happens on a team called the Chicago Cubs, I shouldn't tell you that, Todd Ricketts. So finally, it's my great honor to introduce a tremendous person, a great fighter pilot. A lot of people don't know that she's a great fighter pilot and a warrior senator. She helped us so much during the impeachment hoax. She didn't wobble one bit. Martha McSally. You know, Martha's tough on the border, and she's working with me to strengthen our military still further and lower your prescription drug prices. And we're making a lot of progress. But her opponent, I have to say this, Martha, a guy Named Mark Kelly.  Even the Democrats don't like him much. He wants to raise your taxes, open your borders, give away free health care to illegal immigrants, and he wants to obliterate your Second Amendment. He wants to get rid of it. The radical liberal Democrats from California and Massachusetts, they're pouring money into Kelly's campaign because they know that he's a rubber stamp for Cryin' Chuck Schumer, Cryin' Chuck, and Nervous Nancy Wacko Pelosi. And we're going to have a new Speaker. But that's why Martha has my complete and total support and endorsement. And we have to all get out there and make sure that Martha McSally -- she's a warrior. Let me tell you. You don't know. We don't know. People don't know people. This one is tough as hell, and that's what we need. Martha McSally. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome back to the great state of Arizona. Let's give it up. I just want to say I have a message for the liberal hack media in the back.  Arizona is going to vote in November to keep America great and send President Trump back to the White House. And Mr. President, I want you to know I was right there on the floor, and that amazing State of the Union address that you gave, it brought tears to my eyes. At many places, you were honoring our veterans. You were reuniting families. It was extraordinary. But I heard your call. You said to put a bill on your desk that's going to lower prescription drug prices, and I'm going to introduce the bill next week to get that done, to help all Americans lower the cost of drugs. Arizona is on fire. Thanks to the leadership of President Trump with Governor Doug Ducey and the Republicans in the Senate and the House, people are living amazing. We are getting people off the sidelines. The economy is doing so great. We have so much more to do, but there is so much at stake. My opponent said he would vote to convict and remove you from office and remove you from the 2020 ballot.  What is that all about? And then he said last week that he would support Bernie Sanders if he's the nominee and his socialist agenda. So Arizona is tired of investigations. They're tired of obstruction. They don't want socialism. They love our freedom. And he is -- Mark Kelly is flying on Bernie Sanders' wing, and I'm flying on your wing, President Trump, and we're going to win in November. God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you, Martha. Well, she's right. How about that, Congressman Al Green? We can't beat him, so we have to impeach him. How about that? That's not what our -- as they call them, The Founders. How many times have you heard the name The Founders? That's not what The Founders had in mind. But we're going to have a big, big election victory. We're working together. I don't think the Republican Party has ever been more unified than it is right now. So whatever you can do for Martha, we need her. It's been so incredible. Thank you very much, and thank you for everything, Martha. Appreciate it. Thank you. Together, we're building the world's most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society anywhere. We're inclusive. This is the Republican Party. We're inclusive right here, and I'm right? You know, the -- right here in America, right here in Arizona, we've created 240,000 new jobs right here, including over 60,000 new manufacturing and construction jobs here. Nobody thought it was possible. You've had the best year that you've ever had. Arizona, you've had the best year, the most successful year that you've ever had in the history of the country. It's the best year you've ever had. So I'm going to take all the credit away from your governor. I don't care. Now we have a great team with Doug and everybody else, but you've had the greatest year. You know that, Doug? No. 1 year in the history of your state. It's an incredible achievement, credible achievement. I don't know. This has to be pretty good stuff on the debate stage. We'll talk about -- well, you had the best -- and many states, the best year they've ever had. And then they said, ""Oh, let's get a new President."" I don't think that's going to work so easy. The country's had the best year it's ever had. ""Oh, let's get a new President. Let's put in Crazy Bernie. Let's go, Crazy Bernie.""  Unemployment has reached its lowest rate in over 51 years, half a century. The average unemployment rate for my administration -- think of this, the average. So we're talking about now more than three years is the lowest for any U.S. President in recorded history. The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans has reached record lows, lowest in history. African American youth unemployment has reached an all-time low in the history of our country. African American and Hispanic American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rate ever recorded. The unemployment rate for women has reached the lowest level in 71 years, soon to be historic. And veterans' unemployment has dropped to a record low. We're working with our veterans. We're taking care of our veterans like nobody's ever taken care of our veterans. The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached the lowest level in history. Workers without a high school diploma, you have a lot of them. They left high school. They said, ""Oh, I should have finished."" They left. They can't go back. They left. We've achieved the lowest unemployment rate without a diploma ever recorded in U.S. history. Aint that great? They're great numbers. Hispanic Americans, right now, more than 500,000 own a home. More than 500,000 more own a home. And we've lifted 10 million people off of the welfare rolls. Think of that. 10 million people have come off of the welfare rolls and happily. Not that we did anything. They have jobs, and they love it, and they're making much more money. And they love getting up and going for work. And if they don't like that job, they can get another one because people are starving to get great employees right now. They're starving to get great employees. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Median income -- think of this. This is such a big deal. Median household income reached the highest level in the history of our country. And under President Bush, in eight years, it went to $450 more. Under President Barack Hussein Obama, under a period of eight years, it went to $975. Under President Donald J. Trump -- did you ever hear of him? In only three years, including regulation cuts and tax cuts -- because the other ones raised taxes. We cut taxes by the record amount. It went to $10,000 per family, a record, a record. That's why our consumer right now, our people, they're booming with cash, and that's one of the reasons our economy is doing so much better. China had the worst year in the last 67 years. Asia is doing poorly. Europe is doing poorly. The United States is doing great. We're doing the best we've ever done, the best we've ever done to lift up forgotten communities that need investment, and these are really communities that need it the most. We created opportunity zones. We worked with Tim Scott, the great senator from South Carolina. His idea, he came in and saw me. I said, ""Let's give it a shot."" You know, nothing's worked over the years, but this has really worked, and now jobs and investment are now pouring into 168 newly designated opportunity zones right here in Arizona alone. From Apache to Navajo and Maricopa counties, we're supporting working families by fighting paid. We are doing a job with paid family leave. We're doing something that nobody's ever done to this extent, reducing the cost of childcare and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pocket, thanks to the Republican child tax credit. Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and cutting through job-killing red tape like nobody has ever cut regulations before. We've ended the war in American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump and eliminating our reliance on hostile foreign suppliers. For the first time, America is now energy independent. Such beautiful words, energy independent. We fought wars. We did everything we could. We used to take the straits, and everybody else benefited. We'd keep them clear so that other countries could take oil from the Middle East, and nobody paid us. Now they're starting to pay us a lot of money, folks. They took advantage of us. But we have everything we need right now. We have made such progress in the last three years with pipelines, the Keystone pipeline, Keystone XL. I approved it. The Dakota Access Pipeline, I approved it. 48,000 jobs. We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies, the worst trade deals any human being has ever seen. I'd say, who made these deals, the worst, stupidest deals I've ever seen? They were good for other nations. If you like other nations, that's great. But we're now putting America first. It's very simple. For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations, and really, the most corrupt, special interest anybody's ever seen to ship our jobs and our factories to other countries. We lost our taxes. We lost our workers. We lost our companies, and we did nothing about it. Now we've done a lot about it because companies are pouring back in. America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA, the worst deal ever made, worst trade deal ever made, and one that was almost as bad and gave China an entrance into being a rocket ship when they entered the world trade, world trade, WTO, one of the worst deals, and we participated in this. By the way, we just won $7.5 billion in a lawsuit with WTO. We weren't winning anything. We weren't winning anything, but they said, ""I think this guy's going to pull out."" They treated us so unfairly. We were always in the minority position. I mean, who the hell negotiated these deals? But they look at us and they say, ""Look, if we're not treated fairly, we're gone.""All of a sudden, we're winning all these cases, but we just won $7.5 billion, $7.5 billion. Did you know that, Doug? $7.5 billion. But under this administration, the great betrayal is over. America is no longer for sale. America is no longer for sale. Those days are over. And two generations of politicians came and went, promising to replace NAFTA. How many times have you heard we're going to replace NAFTA? Probably the No. 1 reason I ran for office. Are we glad I ran for office? I think so. You know, it's funny. I was watching the different -- I find it fascinating. I'm watching the different returns coming in, and I'm watching as much as I can on this stuff. I love it. We all love it. If you don't love it, you're not going to do it very well. And the crazy New York Times, which was a dead newspaper -- when I ran, it was dead as a doornail. A month before I ran, Doug, I held up a New York Times. It was like what you get thrown in your face at a supermarket. It was like a thing. It just like flew away. There was nothing. And now it's doing very well. But you know what, someday, we won't be here, and when we're not, those papers are in big trouble. But this thing was a dead newspaper. But I was watching, and they had an article this weekend about people that spent their own money and how they're doing it. And they have Mini Mike has spent $411 million, and it's a question mark how is he going to I'll tell you how he's going to do. He's probably not going to get the Democratic nomination. That's how he's gonna do. But Mini Mike, $411, then they had this Idiot Steyer, we call him Impeachment Steyer. How did that work out, Steyer? He's another beauty. The guy worked -- he spent $210 million. He got one-third of 1% in Iowa. And in New Hampshire, he did much better. He got less than 3%. The guy's in there for like $250 million. How did it work out, Steyer? You jerk. I don't even I've never even heard of it. I've never even heard of it. I turn on every time for years. I'm turning on, ""Impeach him."" They don't even know why. They never say why. They don't have any reason. ""Impeach the President."" This guy spent a fortune on this stuff. So it worked out pretty good. But anyway -- so then I go and I look. So it has Mini Mike's question marks. You know, I can give you the answer, but right now, they have to have a question mark, right? And they go down, and they had other people, some of them I like. They have Ross Perot, who honestly -- you know, it was a tough day for Bush when he joined the campaign. Because Clinton didn't win, Ross Perot took away 19% of the votes. Didn't Clinton get 41% or 43%? So you know, give me a break, but that's OK, whatever. But they had Ross Perot spent like $100 million, which is like probably double if you bring it up to today's dollars. And then they have different people, a friend of mine who ran -- Steve Forbes who ran twice, and he was in for a lot. And then they had Donald Trump. Now this is your own money. So this is your own money. And I said, ""I'd spend a lot of money on my primaries. We'll see how the hell we do."" It's amazing. Once you win, money comes in, like it comes in pretty fast. What's that all about? So in the middle, they had Trump, and then they had four or five that were behind me, a lot of money spent, loss, loss, loss, loss, loss. But in the middle, they have Donald Trump, and it didn't say $500 million and it didn't say $250 million, like this Steyer guy. It didn't say -- it said $70 million of my own money. I spent $70 million, and it said, ""Donald Trump won the presidency of the United States."" We won. You know, my father would teach me, ""If you could spend less and win, that's better than spending a lot and winning."" Crooked Hillary spent at least three times more than we did and lost.  Crooked as hell. She's crooked as hell. We have a double-sided justice. It's very unfair, what's going on, very unfair. But let's see how it all works out, folks. Let's see how it all works out. I hope you're going to be happy. I hope you're going to be happy because there are a lot of dishonest slimeballs out there, dishonest scum, dirty cops, a lot of dirty cops. And by the way, the FBI, those guys in that are incredible, but the ones on top, they were absolute scum. Now what they were trying to do, if that happened to Obama or a Democrat or especially a liberal Democrat, they'd be in jail for 50 years, and it would have taken place two years ago already. They spied on our campaign, remember that. And after they spied, we won, and then after we won, they tried to get us out of office. It's never happened before in the history of our country, and we can't let that happen. We can never ever excuse it. We can never let them get away with that. Never let them get away with it. But we keep our promises, and we work hard, and our economy is great. Last month, we ended the look, you saw it, NAFTA catastrophe, and that's what it was. We ended that catastrophe. And again, I really ran because of NAFTA. I said, how stupid, all over the place in your state, but you go to New England, empty factories, empty buildings, still you have empty buildings. We lost so much. We lost 60,000 factories and plants. And I signed that brand-new, beautiful U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law. And the USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers and ranchers and manufacturers all across the great state of Arizona. And you know, by the way, for people with the small farms and small businesses, if you love your children, you can now leave your companies, you can leave your farm, you can leave your ranch to your children, and you don't have to pay, they don't pay a death tax. They don't pay an inheritance tax. A big deal, that's a big deal. So if you love your children, it's good. If you don't love your children, it doesn't matter. Don't leave it to them if you don't love them. If your children are no good to you, don't give them anything. Let them go out to work like hell. Now if you love -- does anybody in this incredible audience -- this is a big building. Does anybody not love their children, anybody? Do I have a hand? Do I have a -- there's a hand. You've got to be kidding. You've got to be kidding. So then you don't care about the tax. OK, don't worry about it. He says, ""No, I don't care about that."" Well, that's good. You look like a nice guy. He's tough. You'd love to be his kid, wouldn't you? But I also took the strongest-ever action to confront China's massive theft of American jobs, and our strategy worked. Last month, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property and boost American exports. China will invest $250 billion a year into the United States and buy our products and create jobs. Nothing like that has ever happened before. After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. That's the way we want it. We are finally putting our country first. We are putting America first. On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than immigration. You know it almost better than anybody, anybody, Doug. You know it better than anybody, what they've done in your border. But we're stopping that border. That border is clogged, and we've started the big wall right in Arizona. We've built a lot of walls. That's a big one. That's a big one, top of the line. Before I came into office, the far left's policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning our children, including, as you know very well, right here in Arizona. Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the well-being of American citizens. They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border, and then they want to give them a lifetime of free welfare, health care, everything. They want to give them every thing.  For a long period of time, they were treated -- and you know this. Before I came, they were treated far better than our veterans were treated. Now our veterans are treated great. True. Illegal immigration costs Arizona taxpayers more than $2 billion every year, $2 billion you're paying. Nearly 20% of Arizona's annual budget and general funds goes toward this big problem. For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild our cities all throughout America, which is what we should be doing. Under my administration, we are finally taking care of our own citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes and are entitled to a government that protects their families and their communities. Every day, Democrats' open-borders policies are harming and killing innocent lives. In Arizona alone, last year, ICE officers arrested over 4,500 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses, including robbery, rape and murder. Right here in Phoenix, an illegal alien chased a man through a parking lot and shot him in cold blood then walked over to the victim and shot him four more times right in the face as he lay dying in the street. This savage animal had previously been deported after serving six years in prison. And you know, he was in prison six years. He was there six years, and nobody wants to talk about it. They want to protect him. Last year, in Tucson, another illegal alien was sentenced to 10 years for repeatedly raping a vulnerable young woman, yet leftwing politicians oppose all detention of illegal al"
"I worked so hard for this state. I worked hard. Ah, you just got two of the greatest trade deals -- add Japan to it, by the way. Let's make it three, $40 billion from Japan. USMCA, all done. China, all done, for the farmers, it's done that I can tell you. You're going to have to get bigger tractors and a hell of a lot more land because you have -- you've got to produce a lot of products. I don't know if you can, but -- hello, Des Moines, it's great to be with you. I'm thrilled to be back in American heartland with thousands of loyal, hardworking, American patriots. Great people. This November, we're going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats in a right down the street. I mean, I don't even know. I just saw a poll -- The New York Times. Can you believe it?  Fairly New York Times. When we leave in 10, 14, 18, 22 years from now, the New York Times will be out of business and so will a lot of others. But did you see they did a New York Times poll? I think in Siena, New York Times of Iowa, and they have me pitted against every one of the socialists and we're winning by a lot, everyone. We're beating them all. We're beating them all. We're beating them like they haven't been beaten before. You know, all the noises about their crazy debates, nobody's watching their debates. But it's all about their debates. They don't care about the farmer. Everything out here, they love Trump, and you should love Trump with what I've done. So, we're going to win the great State of Iowa and it's going to be a historic landslide. And if we don't win, your farms are going to hell. I can tell you right now. Sell, sell, they'll be saying sell. No, we love -- we love the farmers and we love the ranchers, and we love the manufacturers, frankly. You got plenty of that too in this state. It's a great state and you have a great Governor, by the way. You've got a great Governor. But every day we're achieving extraordinary victories for the citizens of the Hawkeye State. The Iowa unemployment rate has reached an all-time low in history. It's not bad. That's not bad. Oh, let's vote for her, Pocahontas.  Let's vote for Bernie.  Let's vote for sleepy Joe. He's falling asleep, Joe.  He always gets the name wrong. How many times has he missed it? He's in Iowa, he says, it's great to be in the great state of Ohio. They say, Joe, you're in Iowa. You can't do that. No matter how great you speak, if you're Winston Churchill, if you make that mistake at the beginning of your speech, it's over. You might as well just wrap it up. There's the fake news. They would just absolutely -- absolutely dishonest.  They would absolutely destroy you. You can't do that. You can't do that Joe, sleepy Joe. But you have these guys, you have these people. How about Buttigieg, Buttigieg. They call him Mayor Pete. Do you know why? Because nobody can pronounce his name. Nobody has any idea. Buttigieg, they say edge, edge and he presides over a city that's failed. It's doing so badly, in a state that's having the greatest year they've ever had, and they have a great Governor also. And they had a great Governor, you just heard from him, right? The great State of Indiana. So, I don't see that would go down the line. We have some people -- let's not talk about him. What happened to mini Mike? Where is he? He's not running? He's skipping four or five states, mini Mike. I've had him up to here. More people are working right now in Iowa than ever before. No, think of it, think of it. Yesterday, we replaced the NAFTA disaster with the incredible brand new U.S., Mexico, Canada Agreement. In the USMA, you know, when you have a hard time with that one. You know, memories are a great thing. I've always had a great memory, for whatever reason, but memory is a great thing having a great memory. But sometimes you take like little clues USMCA. Thank you, darling. Yeah. I love you too. Where is that person? Look at that. Wow, what a good strong voice. Thank you. But you know how you remember it? The song I just walked in on. They're playing the song YMCA. So, when you're having a hard time, do you -- what's US -- just think of the song YMCA and you will remember, USMCA. It's a massive win for Iowa farmers and workers of all kinds. It's a massive win and it creates some fairness with Canada. It creates fairness with Mexico. Probably the biggest reason that I ran was the unfair trade that I've seen, and one after one, China, Mexico, Canada, Japan, South Korea. We've made all these deals and we have plenty leftover, plenty leftover. Europe, Europe, Europe is next. I wanted to finish China before we started on Europe. I'd like to do them one at a time, you know, one at a time. I'm a very organized person. But weeks ago, we also signed a terrific new trade agreement with China that will boost American agriculture by $50 billion every year and many other businesses like manufacturing, banking, finance. Overall, $250 billion, and you know, with the farmers because I have a place in my heart for the farmers big. I went and I saw Ambassador Lighthizer, who's in charge, he's fantastic. I said what are you doing? We're getting ready for the final deal. What are you doing? He said I'm putting in $20 billion because I have Sonny Perdue, he's great. You know who is, right? Secretary of Agriculture. I said Sonny, what's the biggest number that China has ever done with the farmers? He said sir, $16 billion. Last year, $16 billion, this was two years ago. I said, so, $16 billion is the biggest? Because you know they targeted you, and now, we're friends with China. In fact, maybe, we've never had a better relationship and we're working with them very closely on the coronavirus. We're working with them very, very closely. We only have five people, hopefully, everything's going to be great. They have somewhat of a problem, but hopefully, it's all going to be great. But we're working with China, just so you know, and other countries very, very closely. So, it doesn't get out of hand. But it's, you know, it's something that we have to be very, very careful with, right? We have to be very careful. But I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture. I said, Sonny, what's the number $16 billion and $12 billion, the year before and you were targeted. I don't blame China. You know, They're smart negotiators. They targeted Trump states. Where do they love Trump? They love him in Iowa. They love him in Nebraska. They love him in all these states. They love him in Wisconsin. They love him. We won Wisconsin. They like him in Wisconsin and a lot of the farm states and they targeted. And the farmers came to see me and they said, sir, you have to do what's right. And when the fake news would interview farmers, the farmers would say no, no, President Trump is doing the right thing. It should have been done years ago, should have been done years and years ago. But you couldn't have made it because it was too much money, $16 billion. So, what I did is I put a 25% tariff on everything coming in from China, $250 billion, and then, more tariffs on things beyond the $250 billion market. We took in billions and billions and billions of dollars. We still are, and then, what happened? When I heard about the farmers and I saw the farmers. They were in the White House. They came to see me, had 36 farmers and I said I'm going to give you -- they said, sir, we don't want anything. I said what do you mean you don't want anything? I've never heard that before. Everybody wants money, they want everything. They said we just want a level playing field. I never forgot it. They said we don't want anything. We just want to level playing field and we've been treated badly for years, for years. And I said, well, you haven't been given a level playing field for many, many years, for decades. You haven't been given a level playing field. We're going to give you the levelest field that you have ever -- but, but in the meantime, I'm going to give you $12 billion out of these tens of billions that we're collecting. Don't worry. We have plenty left over because we never got $0.10 from China. China took from us. We didn't take from China, right? I said I'm going to give you $12 billion for the year before and I'm going to give you $16 billion for this year, that was last year, for this year. So, they got, meaning a lot of you and this audience got, $12 billion and you got $16 billion. So, you got $28 billion over that short period of time and you were able to actually, in some cases, I guess thrive. And I told Sonny, I want to take care of the small farmer too, not just the big monsters. I want to take care of everyone, everyone, right? But I never forgot when CNN fake news and all these people. They go around interviewing the farmers. They could never find anyone saying bad about Trump. They go into diners, what do you think about Trump? Isn't it terrible what he's doing with the trade? And the farmers would say, no, he's doing what should have been done 20 years ago, right? And now, you people are going to make so much money. You're not going to do just -- you know what? Just relax, take it easy, put it away, enjoy your life, but you're going to make a lot of money. You're going to make a lot of money. And again, we have never had because they respect us now. Then, they don't respect us. We have never had a better relationship with China than we do right now. It's a beautiful story. They respect us. The whole world respects us now. We're respected again. America is respected again, OK? And we're fighting for products made in America and grown right here in this great, great State of Iowa. To keep America safe, we have fully rebuilt the United States military. It's now stronger, more powerful, more lethal than ever before. We have all brand new equipment and it was all built in the USA. And thanks to the courage of American heroes, the ISIS caliphate has been totally destroyed, and its founder and leader, the animal known as Al-Baghdadi is dead. And crazy Nancy Pelosi said don't call him an animal, he's a human being. No, he's an animal. He's an animal. And two weeks ago, at my direction, the United States military delivered another historic win for American justice. Our brave warriors launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world's No. 1 terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, Qasem Soleimani. He was the mastermind of the roadside bomb. He loved roadside bombs. When you see your friends and great soldiers of our country and other countries, frankly, walking around, they don't have legs, they don't have arms, in some cases. In some cases, they don't have both. You see them walking around or riding around or the most brave people. These people have the greatest attitude. I go to Walter Reed and I see him and a young man whose legs were blown off. How are you doing? Sir, I want to get back to -- I tell you the spirit of these people. It may even top the farmers. It may even top the farmers. But he was responsible more than anybody else, 90% they say, of these roadside bombs sent to fight us. He was responsible and he took a hard hit. He took a very hard -- he was responsible for murdering and maiming thousands and thousands of Americans and hundreds of thousands of other people, not acceptable. Soleimani was actively planning new attacks, but we ended his bloody rampage forever. Yet Washington Democrats, true, like crazy Bernie and Nancy Pelosi, opposed our decision to eliminate Soleimani and to save American lives, that had a tremendous impact. While we're proudly creating jobs and killing terrorists, Congressional Democrats are consumed with partisan rage and obsessed with a deranged witch hunt hoax.  You know, we're having probably the best years that we've ever had in the history of our country, and I just got impeached. Can you believe these people? I got to impeach. They impeached Trump, the best trade deals, the strongest military. I took care of the vets. We got a choice. We got accountability for the vets, accountability. We got all these things and they impeach the President. No, that's not going to work. Watch, just watch. They want to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy and overthrow the entire system of government. That's not happening. I can tell you that. Washington Democrats have spent the last three years trying to overturn the last election. I'm not -- why am I not worried? I should be worried. You know, remember Nixon? It was like a dark period, a very dark period. It was like, oh, you think about it, right? And with Clinton, it was not good. They say that with Johnson. It was a long time ago. None of us remember, but they say it was a very dark period. This is a happy period for us. It's true.  It's a happy period. It's a happy period because we call this impeachment light. This is light. Crazy Schiff, shifty Schiff.  He's a sick -- he's a sick puppy. He's a sick puppy. But you know what? Today, you saw it. I hit my highest poll numbers since I got elected because the American people, and frankly, people all over the world know it's a hoax. They understand it. They know it's a hoax and we have a great party, the Republican Party. They know what's going on. They know what's going on and they're going to treat us very fairly. But the Democrats are trying to overturn the last election, we will make sure that they face another crushing defeat, right, in 2020? November 3rd, November 3rd, mark it off. November 3rd, mark it off. Was that a great day, 2016 November? Oh, remember? He's not going to do well with this group. I did well. He's not going to do well with that group. I won that group. He's not going to do well here. What here -- even the exit polls, they took it right out. Do you know what they didn't know about the exit polls? When people were leaving, they're always very accurate. You know, people leave, who are you voting for? I'm voting for Trump. Who are you voting for? I'm voting for crooked Hillary. I don't care that she's a stone, cold, crook. I'm voting for her. So, who are you voting for? I'm voting for Trump or Clinton or Trump, and they're always very accurate. But this time, something happened. Many people, many, many -- I like that idea. I like it. Wouldn't we like to run against her? Why don't -- get her -- no, who's tougher, her crazy Bernie, Biden, Buttigieg, who would be the closest? Buttigieg? I don't know. Maybe we take another crack at crazy Hillary. Would that be OK? She was so easy. Remember that speech so innocently given talking about deplorable, remember? Remember, deplorable? But you know the only thing I didn't understand. I said that's terrible, but she said another word that was worse, irredeemables.  And I said, boy, shows you how good I am in politics. I said she's in trouble. She said our people are irredeemable. To me that was worse. Well, it wasn't that word that caught on. It was deplorable. The next day, I'm speaking and women are walking around. I'm deplorable and everyone's got deplorable. I say I think she made a bad speech last night, but irredeemable, remember? She called them deplorable and irredeemable, and me being so brilliant. I said I think that irredeemable is going to get her, no, deplorable got her. A lot of things got her like lack of ability. Together, we are going to win back the House, we are going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep that beautiful, gorgeous, incredible White House. People don't realize there's a lot of work. You know, I just left Michigan and Michigan is booming now because of me, meaning, my people. I say to Prime Minister Abe, a friend of mine. Shinzo, Japan, you got to do something. You've got these massive deficits for our country. You've got to open up plants in Michigan fast, Shinzo, fast. You've got to do it? He -- oh, yes, I will do it. He'll do it and he's doing it. Countries are coming in from all over the world. They're going to Michigan. They're coming to Iowa. They're buying your stuff again like crazy, like crazy. They go into Ohio, they go into Pennsylvania, they go into South Carolina, they go into North Carolina, they go into Florida. They're, coming in like never before. They're all coming back. I ran on the issue, trade. I ran on a lot of different issues, but trade was one of them. It was so big. To me, it was so big. I used to say, how do we allow these companies to close, fire everybody, go to another country? Mexico, wherever it may be. Make product, sell the product into our country, pay no tax, who the hell would allow this to happen? Who would allow it to happen? It's like in South Korea. I went to them and said, listen, your deal is no good. We have to make a new deal. South Korea, we're protecting them with all these different things. I said number one, you got to pay us more. They agreed to. They gave us $500 million a year more. They said, but nobody ever asked. They gave us $500 million. That's nothing compared to what they have to do. That's OK, that's OK, they'll pay more. But you know, they made a trade deal with the United States, Hillary Clinton was in charge of the deal, right? And she said it's going to produce 250,000 jobs and she was right, 250,000. Do you know who it was for? For South Korea, not for us. It was for South Korea. So, we renegotiated the deal. I have your permission. We renegotiated the deal and now we have a good deal with South Korea, OK? This deal is going to produce two -- remember? This deal is going to produce 250,000 jobs for South Korea. She didn't lie, can't say she lied. She lies about a lot of other things, but she didn't lie. How is she taking her defeat, OK? Remember the debate? Do you promise if you lose that you will support the winner, and I sort of -- I didn't exactly say yes. I said -- I didn't say yes, in all fairness, but I got you know, sort of like 68% there. But she said, see, he won -- she's the one that doesn't do it. No, no, I feel badly because it's too late for her to get in. I kept hoping, but I think honestly, I think that sleepy Joe, crazy Bernie, I don't even want to put Buttigieg in. But I think they'd actually be tougher than her. During this campaign season, the good people of Iowa have had a front-row seat to the lunacy and the madness of the totally sick left. This is a radical-left people that we're dealing with. Today's Democrat Party. I don't say Democratic Party. It sounds so much better in a speech, right? Democratic Party, the Democratic, but that's not the name. It's called the Democrat Party. You know, some people aren't allowed to say the Democrat Party because it doesn't sound good. I don't even like it. I don't like the way it sounds in the speech, but I'm going to say it because I'm not looking to have them look good. Today's Democrat Party is run by left-wing extremists who want to massively raise your taxes, increase regulations, cancel your health plans, raid Medicare, shut down American energy, destroy your social security -- they will destroy your Social Security,  eliminate religious liberty, punish free speech, confiscate your guns, abolish your borders,  and indoctrinate America's children with hateful left-wing ideology. Other than that, they're OK. Other than that, they're fine. In short, this election is a choice between American freedom and Democratic socialism, and in some cases, in my opinion, it's worse than socialism. Socialism is a kind word by comparison. The Democrats will lose because America will never be a socialist country. We can't.  They're all watching tonight. They're sitting in their hotel room, little hotel right down the street and they're looking at it this crowd. The press never talks about my crowds. Did you see in New Jersey a couple of nights ago? We had sign-ups for 175,000 people. We had an arena that held about 9,000 people. We could have sold it out like 15 times, OK? They don't talk about that. Do you know they talk about? They say Donald Trump, who spoke before a nice crowd. If Bernie or sleepy Joe has, I mean, Joe had a crowd that was so small the other day that they set up a roundtable, right? No, it's true. No, they were in a gymnasium. They were in a gymnasium and they set up a roundtable, and people that went there to hear his speech are now being asked what do you think of socialism? They just said I just want to be here to watch a speech. They set up a roundtable because the crowd was so small. And then, they'll say it was a brilliant roundtable and it was wonderful. They never mentioned crowds, you know, they never mentioned crowds. They never mentioned anything. I'll tell you, USMCA, the biggest trade deal ever signed in the history of the world, OK? It is, wait -- it barely got any mention. We signed it, it barely got any mention. They talk about the impeachment hoax. They talk about all the other stuff, but the trade deal that's going to change our country, it's going to bring growth. Wait 'til you see toward the end of next year. The growth will be astronomical because of the China trade deal, the USMCA, Japan, South Korea, Europe when that happens. It will happen because they have no choice. They have no choice. But in the papers and on the fake news, cable shows, and the regular, look, NBC is horrible. The NBC Nightly News, it's terrible. The good news is people don't watch it like they used to because they don't believe in it. They don't believe in it, and as Sean Hannity would say, MSDNC. You know what is MSDNC is, right? So bad. CNN, total fake stuff. Oops, their cameras just went off. It just went off. See how that?  Their camera just went off. That always happens. Whenever I say CNN, their camera goes off, but Americans across the political spectrum were disgusted by the Washington Democrats. The partisan hoaxes, the witch hunts, the con jobs, it's all a con job. And so, they don't love our country. I swear they don't. You look at Nancy Pelosi's district in San Francisco. It was so beautiful, and now, it's a disgrace being watched all over the world. Needles all over the place, everything else all over the place. I'm not going to get into it, washing down into the ocean, washing down onto their beaches, people living in tents if they're lucky. I mean, you never saw anything -- living on the most important entryways into what was a great city. San Francisco, what's happened? And all she does is work on the hoax and work on all of this stuff. Really, these people are very, very bad for our country. We have to take back the House of Representatives. We have to. Registered Democrats and independents are leaving the Democrat Party in droves and we are welcoming these people and these great voters to the Republican Party with wide-open arms, and we are thrilled to be joined tonight by a lot of your great leaders. A lot of your really wonderful people. I'm not going to mention all the names because you know all those cameras that are rolling. They don't like it when I do it, but one they don't mind is Governor Kim Reynolds. Come up, Kim, come up here. Also, first gentleman Kevin Reynolds, Kevin. Kim. We love you. Do we love Trump? Do we love him? Are we going to win Iowa for President Trump? Yes, four more years.  You're doing great. Do you want to say something? Go on. No, just one thing. On February 3rd, we're going to caucus. On November 3rd, we're going to vote and on November 4th, we're going to celebrate four more years of President Trump. Great. Great job. Thank you. Oh, she was driving me a little bit batty. She'd call me up. Kim, you'd call. What about ethanol? I said Kim, I mean, I'm doing a lot for that place. No, no, we want it, and then, we want biofuel. Then, she's asking for things I never even heard of, but we got them all. Whatever the hell she wanted, right? And by the way, Joni Ernst and the great Chuck Grassley are right now in Washington, fighting for fairness, fighting the hoax, fighting for all of us. So, they called they said, do you mind if we don't go tonight? We have to stay. I said I don't want you to be here. I want you to be what you are because they're fighting for us. They're great people, they're great people, and they would call to Chuck Grassley, Joni Ernst, they'd call. We got to help our farmers, sir. Yes, OK. We're going to help the farmer. They were great. Lieutenant Governor, Adam Gregg. Thank you, Adam. Great job, Adam. Speaker of the Iowa House of Representatives, a man with really fantastic genes, got to have like the best genes in the world. Although, you had a next Governor here that had very good genes too. We have his son in the audience too, but this is Representatives Pat Grassley, those genes. Those two young men have the greatest genes anyone's ever had for politics. Thank you, fellows. Thanks. I sent one of them, the father, to China, and he's now Ambassador to China. Do you think he's happy? Is he happy? I think so. I think he's happy. Great Governor, longest-serving Governor in history, actually, 24 years. We have the Chairman of the Republican Party of Iowa, Jeff Kaufmann. Great job. And just quickly, we have the world's tallest campaign manager, Brad Parscale, and Republican National Committee Co-Chair who's done an incredible job, Tommy Hicks. And we have the great negotiator, the great man, Bob Lighthizer. Where's Bob? What a job he did negotiating for you. And we have somebody that you never heard of. Somebody that's a fantastic person, but you never heard of her. Somebody named Sarah Sanders. Have you ever heard of her? Yeah? Come here Sarah. Come on. That's pretty good. And we have a great football player from Iowa, Matt Whitaker is here, Matt. Thank you. How much do we love this President? And Mr. President, how much do we love the State of Iowa? So much. This is an incredibly special place. I actually met my husband here in Des Moines. So, I love being back in Iowa. It's an amazing place. We're sorry you've had so many crazy liberal Democrats running around here the last year. But the good news is, it's not going to matter because, at the end of the day, this guy will still be our President. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you, Sarah. Very popular. She's a terrific person, great person. So, thanks to Republican leadership, America now has the hottest economy anywhere on the planet earth, not even close. Every Prime Minister, President, King, Queen, Dictator, whatever you want to call them, they all say how did you do it? And you know, the truth is we have certain advantages, but we also have a people advantage. We have the greatest people in the world. I really mean that. Since the election, we have created 7 million new jobs. The average unemployment rate under my administration, listen to this, is lower than any previous administration in the history of our country. Can you believe that? The lowest unemployment. African-American, Hispanic-American, and Asian-American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded. Think of that. More than 2 million millennials, you know, what millennials are? Young, great people with a lot of future. They've gotten jobs and their wages have grown by nearly 5% annually. That's a record. Another record is that between the ages of 25 and 34, people are now working and that's a record. The number of people, 25 to 34. And under this so-called Trump economy, the lowest-paid earners are reaping the fastest gains of any group, and that's a great thing. This is a blue-collar boom and that's a good thing too. That's a good thing. Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10% for the first time ever, for the first time ever. And median household income is at an all-time high. Just for one second, President Bush, eight years $450, President Barack-Hussein Obama, eight years, eight years, $975, President Donald John Trump, two and a half years, not three because the numbers were taken at two and a half. Now, it's actually higher. Two and a half years, including the tax cuts which are massive and including all of the regulatory cuts and the other things you've gotten, $10,000. Well, think of it. So, you have eight years, $450. Eight years, $975. Two and a half years -- think of it, $10,000. It's one of the reasons the economy is doing so well and let the people down the road tell you about that, OK? Let them tell you about that. And those tractors that I told you to buy, your tractors will be 60 years old if they have anything to do with it. They'll be 60 years old, they'll be old, tired, exhausted. Your land will be exhausted. You'll be exhausted. We've ended the war in American energy. The United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth by far. We're also proudly promoting American ethanol, and I recently approved E15 to be used all-year-round, biofuels also. But the Socialist Democrats want to shut down American energy. They support Representative Ocasio-Cortez.  A real beauty. That's a real beauty. That's a beauty. I can't even believe it, but I don't want to knock it because the Green New Deal, which would crush your farms, destroy your wonderful cows, I love cows. They want to kill our cows. You know why, right? You know why? Don't say -- they want to kill our cows. That means you're next. And they want to wipe out, totally, Iowa ethanol. They want to wipe it out, but we will never let that side get in -- and by the way, that's the least of it, but I don't want to attack the Green New Deal because they might change it. I said to her the other day. They said, what do you think of the Green New Deal? I said, well, it should be studied carefully. We should look at. Look at it closely. I don't want to talk about it until about two months before the election. And then, I'll tell you how totally insane it is. How about this crazy Senator -- how about this crazy, crazy Senator from Hawaii? They said I'm totally in favor, not the smartest. She said I'm totally in favor of the Green New Deal. Well, you know, that would mean there's no more airplanes. Oh, so they started screaming at her in Hawaii. They said how the hell are we going to get to Hawaii? They said we're going to build a railroad. She said the world's longest track, it's the world's longest. She doesn't know that they don't want airplanes anymore, and yet, they fly around in brand new golf streams and brand new planes all over the place. They're flying from place to place. They're talking about the carbon footprint. We're going to destroy the carbon footprint. What time is my plane taking off, please? To lift up forgotten communities, the Republican tax cut launched opportunity zones. Jobs and investment are now rushing into over 60 newly -- and this is incredible, brand newly designated opportunity zones right here in Iowa alone, rich people are investing vast amounts of money. Tim Scott, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, came into my office. He said I have an idea that I've wanted to do for years, but we've never had a President that could pull it off. I said what is it, Tim? And he talked about opportunity zones. First time I heard it and we did it and there has nothing -- nobody's ever seen anything like it. Money is being poured into these communities that would have never been there. What's happening is incredible. Opportunity zones, remember it. For decades, politicians ran for office promising to protect American farmers and workers. You've heard it all your lives, right? But then, they went to Washington. They looked at those beautiful marble columns and that gorgeous ceiling painted in all that gold. You know, the way they used to build the buildings. They don't build them that way anymore. We could, but they just don't know how. By the way, we're building the wall. You know the walls over 100 miles, over 100 miles long already and moving fast. So they went to Washington and they sold you out. It's what happened. They sold your jobs out. They sold everything out. Globalist politicians allowed other countries to raid our factories, ravage our farms, rob our workers, and ransack our communities, but the era of economic surrender is over because now we are finally putting America first. America first.  Before I took office, Washington looked the other way, while China stole our secrets from American agriculture. You know, your business, what they do scientifically. Nobody understands what they've done to a seed. It doesn't sound complicated. It's genius what they've been able to do, what yo"
"Thank you.  I love New Jersey and I'm thrilled to be back right here in the Garden State. The Garden State. Together, we're achieving historic victories for New Jersey families. You see it every single day. The New Jersey unemployment rate has reached the lowest of all time. More people are working today in the state of New Jersey than ever before. And I have to tell you more people, almost 160 million are working right now in the United States. That's the highest level of employment in the history of our country. And a lot of countries aren't doing so well, just so you understand. Tomorrow, we will replace the NAFTA nightmare, one of the worst trade deals ever in history. With the incredible brand new U.S., Mexico, Canada agreement, the USMCA, a massive win for New Jersey workers, New Jersey farmers, New Jersey union people, New Jersey manufacturers, and everybody. And weeks ago, we also signed a fantastic new trade agreement with China that will boost New Jersey exports and defend New Jersey jobs, $250 billion coming in. Now, that's going to be so nice and we're restoring America's industrial might like never before. They're all coming back. They want to be where the action is. After years of devastating defense cuts, we have fully rebuilt the United States military.  And thanks to the incredible courage of our warriors, the greatest is in the world. The ISIS caliphate has been totally destroyed and its savage founder and leader, Al-Baghdadi is dead.  Weeks ago at my direction, the U.S. military launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world's No. 1 terrorist, Qasem Soleimani. He was responsible for murdering and wounding thousands of Americans, and actively planning new attacks, but we stopped him cold. Yet, Washington Democrats like crazy, Bernie Sanders and nervous Nancy Pelosi,  they opposed our action to save American lives. They oppose it, they oppose it. You know the roadside bombs that you see hurting our people and lots of other people so badly, the legs, the arms wiped out, no legs, no arms, Soleimani loved that that was his weapon of choice. We didn't like them. He's not around anymore. While we are creating jobs and killing terrorists, the Congressional Democrats are obsessed with demented hoaxes, crazy witch hunts, and deranged partisan crusades.  It's all they know how to do. The do-nothing Democrats. They've spent the last three years and probably even before I came down on that beautiful escalator with our beautiful future First Lady, trying to overthrow the last election and we will make sure that they face another crushing defeat in the next election. We are going down the victory that's even greater than 2016. This November, we are going to win back the House, we are going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House.  The American people are disgusted by the Washington Democrat wish -- and you see it, you see it, which is worse, the impeachment hoax or the witch hunts from Russia? But we're going to be signing up millions and millions of registered independents, Democrat voters, and today, I had the best polls that I've ever had since being elected. The best we've ever had. Remember, I used to go over polls, but I only used to talk about them when I was doing well. Otherwise, we had our best polls, Americans of all political beliefs are sick and tired of the radical rage-filled, left-socialists. I never saw anything -- what's going on in this country? What's going on in this country? The Democrat really, the Democrat Party is the Socialist Party, and maybe worse, voters are making a mass exodus from that party, and we are welcoming them to the Republican Party with wide open arms and the Republican Party is doing great. We are privileged to be joined tonight by a courageous leader who left the Democrat Party because he has had enough of their extremism, enough of their socialism, and enough of their vile hoaxes and scams, he's had enough. I'll tell you, he really is. He's a brave guy. He just said I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. It's a hoax. It's a scam. I'm not doing it. And we called them, you know, you're a rock kind of guy. Let's go and it didn't take much because he believes like we do. We are truly honored to be here with the newest Republican member of the House of Representatives, your great Congressman Jeff Van Drew. And I have to tell you a few weeks ago, Jeff was one of the few brave and principled Democrat lawmakers. In all fairness, we've been after him for a long time, who stood up to the House Democrats and the outrageous abuse of power that you see going on right now. They can't win an election so they're trying to steal an election. It's not happening, folks. It's not happening. And Jeff had the guts to defy the left-wing fanatics in his own party, and to stand tall in defense of our constitution, our freedom, and democracy itself. And I just want to -- I have to tell you, I've gotten to know him really well over the last couple of weeks. He's a great guy. He's a brave guy. He shares our values. He supports lower taxes, not bad. They want to raise your taxes. How did that work, Jeff? How did you get elected with that one? Less regulation, a strong national defense, he loves our military, loves our vets and police, and he is a tireless champion for the state of New Jersey. He loves your Second Amendment, which is under siege by the Democrats. Jeff, it's an honor to be with you, please. How about having the President right here in South Jersey? What a great day. Now, I heard that the folks in this room can make more noise and more   than anywhere in the world. So, we're going to do one more time for this man right here. Now, when I was in the White House with the President, he asked how he could help me. I asked if he could come down to South Jersey and have a rally. Without even hesitating, our President said yes and he is here, a man who kept word to ensure -- to ensure that the eyes of the world are on South Jersey and all of us. The USA Is a great nation, the greatest nation that civilization has ever known. Do we want to keep it that way?  It's a nation, a nation and a people of great exceptionalism. Do we want to keep it that way?  Our President has made it clear by restoring our military, protecting our economy, and by not allowing any other nations to ever take advantage of us again. Do we want to keep it that way?  This year, this year, this very year is a flashpoint election. Are we going to allow ourselves just to be like any other nation in the world or are we going to keep America great? I say to all of you, may God bless South Jersey, may God bless our President, and may God bless the United States of America.  So we have tens of thousands of people outside. If anybody would like to give them your place, please let us know. But we have thousands and thousands, tens of thousands, and Jeff gave me a number, he said 175,000 people. Is that a fact? It's a fact. 175,000? think he's on his way. I think he's on his way. Thank you, Jeff. Great job. Thank you, Jeff. So, it's been a little bit of a story. Do you see the fakers back there? Fake news.  You know, if another candidate -- if another candidate has a 1,000 people, they say, he spoke to a massive crowd. If they have 10,000, like Pocahontas went into Central Park in New York, and this young man in the front row could have 10,000 people, you know that in Central Park. So she had 10,000 people like in Central Park. And I said, what's the big deal? They made it -- oh, the crowds are so large. So Jeff, just told you I had 175,000 people outside. And seriously, you have to see outside. They know because they have to follow, their trailers, I call them trailers, but they're fake, they're fake, they're not honest. Let me just tell you. So, here's the story.  So, we have these massive crowds that fill up stadiums every single time. We have tens of thousands of people outside. They never mention it. They never mention it. So, maybe they will tonight, but that's an all-time record and this is not a brand new place, and unfortunately, it holds probably 10,000 people or less. And we set the all-time record, do you know why? Because for games, do you see the floor with -- packed with people? For games, you're playing ice hockey or basketball. So, we broke the all-time record in this house and it's a wonderful house and a wonderful community. Also in Wildwood, like, we're in the middle of winter, there is nobody in the middle of winter, and it's a great place in the summer, and those streets are packed all the way back to the airplane, practically. But on June 2nd, everybody has to do us all a favor. Number one, you have to get out and vote Republican. Get rid of these clowns and you have to get out and vote. You're really a brave man. What you did was incredible. Jeff Van Drew, what he did was incredible. Get out and vote. We're going to have a big victory. He's going to have a big victory. And we're grateful to have you with us this evening, some wonderful friends of mine, people that I've known forever. You're a former Governor who did a terrific job, Chris Christie. Great, Chris, great job. You're wonderful Republican State Chairman, Doug Steinhardt. What a job he's doing. Thank you, Doug. Thank you, Doug. My campaign's two great New Jersey co-chairs, and I think we'll play for the state. You know, they all say Republicans can't win. Tell me why. They said should you move this to the Meadowlands? I said, no, I want to be in South Jersey. We want to be with our friends, but we could have filled up the Meadowlands Arena two or three times. Maybe we'll do it during the summer. Should we do it during the summer? But two brave guys, two great politicians, people that love our State, State Senators Mike Testa and Joe Pennacchio. Joe, Joe Pennacchio. Thank you, Joe. Thank you. Thank you. And two incredible New Jersey natives, you've never heard of Kellyanne Conway, have you? And Bill Stepien. And I love you back. Mr. President, I think South Jersey is Trump country. Mr. President, thank you for all you've done to add respect and resources to our military, to our great veterans, having the best economy in the world, two new trade deals, two Supreme Court justices, two dead terrorists. That's two terms. South Jersey is my home. Donald Trump is my President. Melania Trump's my First Lady. Life is great, everyone. God bless you. Thank you, Kellyanne. So, I just want to thank Republicans because what they've been doing is incredible. Republican leadership in this country. We're winning. winning, winning like never before. We're winning again and we've got a party that's a very different party, a much stronger party, a much more inclusive party. We have a party that we love. We have a party that has the votes. We have a party like they've never had before. The Republican party respected again. And I have to say this, America is winning again and America is thriving again like never before. So since the election, we have created 7 million new jobs. The average unemployment rate under my administration is lower than any previous administration. Listen to this one, in United States history. That's a good fact, the lowest in history.  Tank you, Matt. We have a great veteran up here who is saying, we love you, we love you. The veterans. Are we doing good for the veterans? Thank you. African-American, Hispanic-American, and Asian-American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded in the history of our country ever recorded. Women's unemployment is at a 65-year low, sorry about that. Soon it's going to be historic. Another couple of good months it'll be historic, 65 years for women. In the eight years before I took office, over 300,000 working-age people left the workforce. They had no choice. In just three years of my administration, 3.5 million people have joined the workforce. Nobody believes that including the fake news. If I would have said that during the campaign that we were going to produce numbers like this, the fact is would have been hitting me. He's exaggerating, he's lying, Pinocchio, Pinocchio. The press is very dishonest. More than 2 million millennials have gotten jobs and their wages have grown by nearly 5% every year, which is a record. A record number of Americans between the ages of 25 and 34 are now working another record. Under the Trump economy, the lowest-paid earners are reaping the fastest gains of anybody. You don't hear that because this is a blue-collar boom. It's very nice. It's about time. It's been many, many decades. Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10%, first time ever. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners have increased, listen to this, by 47%. Three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Median household income is at an all-time high. For President Bush in eight years, it was $450 over eight years. Think of this for a second. Under President Barack Hussein Obama,  for eight years it was $975. So, eight years, eight years, $450, $975, right? Under your favorite President, and when you include the tax cuts, the regulation cuts that nobody's ever cut taxes like this, nobody's ever cut regulations. That's why all these jobs are being built. Under President Trump, for three years, the number is almost $10,000 and that's three years, and it's going up, going up very substantially. That's a big difference. New business applications in New Jersey have just soared to a record high and we have lifted 10 million people nationwide off federal welfare, they're off, they are off Federal welfare. Nobody would have believed these numbers. Someday, they're going to write the true story. Our child tax credit alone is delivering $2,200 a year to 40 million American families. And we have ended, so importantly for you, the war on American energy. The United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. We don't need anybody else's energy anymore. It's so nice. What happened in the last three years with energy is incredible, but extreme Liberals in Washington want to shut down U.S. energy, including through the so-called Green New Deal,  close your factories, get rid of your cows. You don't have too many cows in Wildwood, but if you do, they got it. We will never sacrifice America's energy independence. It took us a long time to get there and we really picked it up over the last three years. What we've done is incredible. Pipelines all over. Pipelines are good. They're underground. They're good, environmentally sound. To lift up forgotten communities that need investment the most, these are the communities that really have suffered. We created, with the help of a great gentleman from the State of South Carolina, do you know what I'm talking about? Tim Scott, right? Senator Tim Scott. He's an incredible guy. He really is. He came to my office and he had this idea that he's wanted to do for a long time. Senator Tim Scott. Opportunity zones and jobs and investment are now pouring into nearly 170 newly designated opportunity zones right here in New Jersey, all over the United States, billions and billions and billions of dollars, and not government dollars, they're flowing into the opportunity zones, into areas where investment was dead. And for decades, politicians ran for office promising to protect American workers, but then, they went to Washington and they line their pockets with special-interest cash and they shipped American jobs and dreams to other countries. They closed up your factories. They got ready for jobs. They didn't have to pay taxes. Globalist politicians lowered our economic defenses and allowed other nations to rob our factories, steal our farms, and ransack our communities. Not anymore, not anymore because we are defenseless no more. Because at long last, you have a President who puts America first. Is that OK? The United States laws, listen to this number, and you know, if I was wrong the fake news would be, you know, all over me, and I've been saying it for three years. The United States lost 60,000 factories and plants. Think of it, 60, you wouldn't think that's possible because of this stupid trade deals. Because of bad leadership during the 16 years of the two prior administrations, under just three years, my administration has now added 12,000 new factories and many more are being built and they're pouring back into the United States because that's where the action is, that's where they want to be. They are pouring back into our country. New plants and factories, you see them all over. I passed two of them coming in, brand new beautiful plants and factories. They're pouring back in. This is where the action is. This is where they want to be. I see the leaders, they say it's incredible what happened to your country. Don't tell me that. We want you to have your companies build plants in New Jersey and other places, and that's what's happening. But on no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly betrayed the American people than the issue of immigration. Left-wing radical politicians, support deadly sanctuary cities  and remember, a sanctuary city is a jurisdiction that refuses to hand over criminal aliens that are in local law enforcement custody. Instead, they order them to be released into your community. What the hell is going on?  What is going on? And once set loose, these criminal aliens are free to continue their crime spree against innocent Americans. Right here in New Jersey, your state's Democrat leaders have instituted sanctuary policies that result in dangerous predators being set free into your community.  For example, Cumberland County -- we all know Cumberland County, very well, right? Good luck with this one. They released an illegal alien criminal with multiple charges for sexual assault of a child. He is now at large, free to search for another innocent victim. They didn't want to give him to ICE, and I want to thank ICE because of the abuse they take and the incredible job they do. Right here, another criminal alien was arrested for a violent assault in New Jersey, the sanctuary jurisdiction of Middlesex County defied the ICE request to detain him. Local authorities released him and he went on to commit a gruesome, triple murder.  Happens -- I could read these cases. Honestly, I could read and state these cases to you all night. I could state these cases to you all night. No American should ever be hurt, harmed, or killed because left-wing politicians, Democrats decided to shield and shelter criminals. Look, look, wait. You have criminals that are on the streets that should be in jail. You have criminals that are on the street that should be taken the hell out of our country and brought back to where they came from. And by the way, ICE, ICE has removed thousands upon thousands of MS-13 gang members, the most brutal people. And you don't want to do that job. Maybe you do. A couple of tough people up there, a couple. Anybody want to be with ICE, yeah? We got a lot of tough people in New Jersey. New Jersey is different. I think New Jersey -- no, but these ICE people they love our country. They're proud and they're tough people, and they'll go right into a pack, they call it a pack, and they start swinging. Everyone swinging and they end up standing up. That's the end of that. And you know what they do? They bring the MS-13 and many other gang members and other members back to El Salvador, back to Honduras, back to Guatemala, back to Mexico, and I want to thank Mexico because the Mexican -- you know what's happening, right? Thousands and thousands at this moment, 27,000 soldiers from Mexico protecting our Southern border. I want to thank the President. Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos. Republicans stand for law, order, and justice, and say what you want, but those are the facts. And we are removing these illegal criminals and gang members, we are literally taking them by so many, thousands and thousands and we're bringing them back. And thanks to our tireless efforts of Border Patrol to secure our border, we have reduced illegal border crossings seven straight months in a row. We have the numbers down by 75% since spring, 75%.  And we have ended catch and release and really -- look, I had another party. I could get anything if I wanted to spend money on anything. Look with the military, we got $2 trillion, right? More, $2 trillion, all made in America, right? Everything. Best planes, best missiles, best everything, made in America. If I wanted to build anything, the only thing, they put the whole weight of their party. They didn't want us to have the wall. They knew it worked. Many of them voted five years ago for a wall. They just didn't know how to get it built, I do. But what happened is through a series of court cases and other things, we've won -- the money is won and we are now building that beautiful wall. And this powerful border wall is going up at record speed and we just reached over 100 miles of wall. And by next year, we'll be over 400 miles, and shortly thereafter, it will be complete. A lot of people were saying, a year ago, we didn't build the wall, we didn't build a wall. Let me tell you when you have the strength of a party that has the House, OK. Hopefully, they're not going to have the House for long. We'll have a wonderful new speaker, we'll get rid of Nancy Pelosi, nervous Nancy, nervous Nancy. We'll have Kevin McCarthy who's been fantastic. We have to win back the House. But think of this, the wall, so many people were saying build the wall. They're not easy when you have the weight of an entire party and they control the House. Not easy and we did it, and frankly, we were building the wall through the help of the military, the Army Corps of Engineers, anyway. But you know what? Now, we actually have the money and it's going up very rapidly. And in all due respect to Mexico, we like Mexico very much and we've gotten along great with Mexico, and the President's a friend of mine, and I think, he's doing a fantastic job. It's a tough situation, but Mexico is in fact, you will soon find out -- paying for the wall, OK? You know they'd hit you with that. No, the wall is ultimately and very nicely being paid for by Mexico, and it's an advantage for Mexico too, when you think about it. The wall is a vital barrier for blocking deadly drugs from pouring into these communities. What we're doing is stopping drugs at a record number. It's still -- anything that comes over is too much, but we're blocking it at a record number. And I'm also very proud to report that we won a critical Supreme Court victory yesterday on immigration. We will now be finally able to enforce federal law and ensure that those seeking admission to our country are able to support themselves financially and not abuse taxpayer-funded programs. They were killing our country, killing our country. Washington Democrats have never been more extreme than they are right now. Frankly, they're crazy. These people are crazy. They're taking their cues from socialists like Bernie. Left-wing lawmakers are pushing a government takeover of healthcare that would strip 180 million Americans of their private healthcare plans, which many people like. The plans of every Democrat running for President would demolish the economy of New Jersey. where half a million new New Jersey workers are employed at some of the best and most innovative healthcare, employment companies. We have them working at the companies and we have people getting great healthcare. It's been so long, it's finally working, and they want to destroy it. The Republican Party will never let it happen. We are saving your healthcare while the Democrats are trying to take away your healthcare, take away your doctors, take away all of the good care that we fought, and we fought hard and we're doing well, and now, we're doing better. And by the way, sometime prior to the end of the year, we're putting in for a new middle-income tax cut, a very big one. But we're making healthcare better and much much cheaper. We've done a great job in running it and we've given you a lot of alternatives. We are protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will, the Republican Party, pre-existing conditions. We saved it. We are stopping surprise medical billing and making everything transparent. That's a big deal and that will take effect starting in about two months from now. Everything's transparent. You'll be able to see pricing. You'll be able to go and price other hospitals, other doctors. It's going to be an incredible thing. Nobody believes I was able to do it, but we did it. We are defending your right to keep the doctor and the plan of your choice. We are lowering drug prices, the Democrats are increasing drug prices. We are fighting the lobbyists and special interests, we are serving you, and how are we doing? We're doing good, right? But because of price transparency, we are getting it done. We're approving more generic drugs than ever before in the history of our country. That means they come in. Frankly, they're just as good as the big names, but they sell for 80% less in some cases. We are unleashing innovation to cure diseases of all kinds. We are cutting out the rich middlemen and delivering prescription drugs directly to the consumers. These are all things that we had to fight like hell to get. We're, making less paperwork for your doctors and giving you easy control of your medical records, which is a big deal for a lot of people. We are prohibiting hospitals from hiding their prices and charging hidden costs. You go home, you say, oh, I'm feeling better. The doctor was fantastic, and then, they send you a bill for $25,000, that's the end of that. All of a sudden, the doctor wasn't so good, right? We are making companies compete for your business. We are repealing burdensome taxes. We have accomplished more than any President in the first three years of their term, by far, not even close. We have provided health insurance options, 60% cheaper than Obamacare, and we have historic investments in treating kidney disease, HIV, pediatric cancer, and Alzheimer's disease. We're making so much progress. And we have just passed a thing that I think is great. I never understood -- for 45 years, I've been trying to get it passed. We've just passed a thing called Right to Try. Do you know what that is? So, we have the greatest doctors, the greatest technicians, the greatest labs in the world, and we'll have a drug that's looking good, but it's going to take five more years. And by the way, we've brought the timing way down from 12 years to half of that, but it takes years to get it approved. You have people that are terminally ill. If they have money, they go to Asia, they go to Europe, they go all over the world looking for help. If they don't have money, they go home and they die, and what we did is a thing called Right to Try. People sign something and they don't hold the country responsible. They don't hold the drug company responsible. It's called Right to Try and they get the newest and the best and the latest medicine, where it's looking good, but you're not going to have it for five more years. And do you know why they didn't do it? Because they didn't want to hurt anybody except the problem is, the people were going to die soon. I said they're terminally ill. Let them have it. We sat down with a great group of leaders, Republican leaders, and honestly, we had some bipartisan support and we got it done. They've been trying to do it for 45 or so years. We got it done and you have to see the results and I've seen some of the results. Some of the results are incredible and we've transformed veterans' healthcare, including through VA Choice, right? VA Choice. For 48 years, they've been trying to get Veterans Choice. I thought I had the greatest secret. You know I have been doing this that long. So four years ago, I'm campaigning for President. Everyone said, no, he's only having fun. He's only -- some fun. This is a lot of fun. But for 45 years, they've been trying to get it, Veterans Choice. So, I come back one day, I say to my people, I have the greatest idea. I am so smart. I am like the smart -- I have an idea because the veterans are waiting on line. They're, waiting in line for two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, ten weeks. Some are OK and they end up being terminally ill by the time they see their doctor. It's too long. And I said, folks, I have the greatest idea. All of my people, they say I have the greatest idea, so smart. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to send all those people that can't see a doctor. We just can't get them to see a doctor. We're going to send them down the road to private doctors and we're going to pay the bill, and they're going to get fixed up, right? So smart. But you see, I said I was smart, and they looked back at me and they said, sir, we've known about that concept for 45 years, we just can't get it approved. But I got it approved and I got it approved about eleven months ago, and the VA is doing fantastically well. Our veterans are doing great. That was a big thing. That was a big thing. We also got accountability, where people could mistreat our veterans, do whatever they want. They could be sadistic, they could be so many other things, they could steal, they could rob, they couldn't do anything. You'd keep them. You couldn't do a thing. We got accountability. Now you look at him, you say, get the hell out of here. You're fired. Now you can fire -- they've let go of more than 8,000 bad people. We have reduced opioid deaths for the first time and very substantially in 30 years. And we are modernizing critical vaccines. We're doing a great job with vaccines. We are creating a pathway to buy drugs from Canada that are much, much cheaper. In Florida, Governor Ron DeSantis came to me. He said, sir, this system is so bad and you can't fix it unless you have Democrat votes. That's why you got to vote the House. You've got to get us back the House. They say, sir, we can buy the drugs in Canada for 50% less. The same drug, made in the same factory, made by the same company, 50%, and we can give the benefit for the people that live in Florida or Colorado or New Jersey or wherever you want, and no President -- this has been going on for a long time. No President has wanted to do it. Do you know how long it took me to make that decision? I said if you can save 50% or 25% to 15%, buy it, do it, go, and I gave him authorization, do it. And we are protecting Medicare for our nation's seniors. Democrats want -- and you know this, Democrats want to raid Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants.  And you know we all have a heart, but when you -- we all have a heart, but when you tell people to come into our country like this clown Governor of California, come into our country, come into our country. They're all going to come. If they think they're going to get free education, free healthcare, they're all going to come. If you don't say it, they're not going to come because they wouldn't even think -- who would even think this? Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb right up until the moment of birth.  And that is why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, and blatant corruption. Look at what's happening to these cities. Los Angeles, what -- it's so sad. What you see is so sad. With the homeless and the way, they don't take care of the homeless. San Francisco -- you could take it starting in New York. You could take a look at what's happening to our cities that's run by Democrats. It's a disaster. They don't know what the hell they're doing. The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream. Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, religion, color, and creed. W"
"Well, thank you very much and I'm thrilled to be back in Wisconsin where we had a very big night a few years ago. You remember that very big night? Remember that? They said Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin. And since then, we've produced everything we said and more and more. Before it was talk. I said I'm going to do this, we're going to take care of your trade. What we've done with China now on Wednesday we sign. That's tomorrow. What we've done with the USMCA. What we've done with Japan, $40 billion trade deal that a lot of it has to do with the farmers. South Korea, oh, you got to love Trump. You got to love Trump, and you're a great Green Bay Packers are playing San Francisco this week. Good luck. So, do we have any Green Bay Packers fans here today? That's wonderful and you have a great quarterback, who's a good guy, good guy. As we begin the year, our economy is booming, wages are rising, poverty is plummeting, crime is falling, and America is the envy of the entire world. And then our opponents say, we're not going to win. Let's impeach President Trump.  Let's impeach him. Got the greatest economy in our history. Our military has been totally rebuilt. Let's impeach him. But we've created 7 million jobs since the election, including more than 1 million manufacturing and construction jobs. Nobody thought that was possible and we will soon be replacing the NAFTA catastrophe. One of the worst trade deals in the history of the world, frankly. With the incredible USMCA, Canada, Mexico, a giant victory for Wisconsin workers, farmers, and dairy producers, a tremendous victory. And we may get that all taken care of this week or next week. It just needs one more vote and we'll get that out of the Republican Senate. The Republican Senate will be great. Tomorrow, we'll also be signing our Phase 1 trade deal with China, massively boosting exports of products made and produced right here in the Great State of Wisconsin. So, after years of devastating defense cuts, we have fully rebuilt the United States military to a point that it has never been before, and it is now more advanced, more lethal and more powerful than ever. And last year, our great American warriors, because that's what they are and they love it. I got to tell you. I know some -- they love it, right? They love doing that. They wouldn't trade places with me under any circumstance. They wouldn't trade places with all of our great Wisconsin politicians. They want to be a military warrior and we don't want them for that. We want them doing what they are doing, but our great warriors carried out a daring nighttime raid and terminated the founder and leader of ISIS. The animal known as Al-Baghdadi is dead and the wicked caliphate is 100% destroyed. And I will tell you when we took over a little less than three years ago, ISIS was all over the place. Now the caliphate is 100% destroyed. Remember when I wanted to leave when it was at 98%? I said let some of the other countries finish it off. We're going home, right? They all said, oh no, sir. Please, finish it. So, we finished it off. It's 100%. A few days ago, we took bold and decisive action to defend American lives and deliver American justice. At my direction, the United States military launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world's No. 1 terrorist, No. 1 terrorist. You know who that is? Qasem Soleimani, No. 1 terrorist in the world. Soleimani was responsible for murdering and wounding thousands of Americans and was actively planning new attacks, but we stopped them cold. And frankly, they already started the attack, as you saw in Baghdad, on our very large embassy in Baghdad. That was already started and I said to our Generals get there. We don't want to have another Benghazi, on my watch, on any watch. They said, sir, we'll be there tomorrow. I said, no, you got to be there right now. Get them over there now, now. They have thousands of soldiers, they were soldiers if you take a look at that crowd. That was not protesters, they were soldiers and they were surrounding our embassy in Baghdad. And all of a sudden, they see these beautiful, very expensive, I will tell you, brand new Apache helicopters roaming over the top. And then they see our great military. You saw them in the plane, right? Some of them were getting out of their pajamas. They were, I said don't worry about that. We won't put that on, but they were sitting there and they were calling a roll call in the plane, right? And it was a beautiful sight, and these guys were better than Tom Cruise, at his best.  All right. So tomorrow with the fake news, here's your headline, here's your headline. You know, we have thousands of people outside wanting to get in. They can't because you people got here first, but so here's your headline tomorrow, protesters disturb the rally, one protester, a very weak voice. You know a few people wouldn't go crazy every time you see something, you'd go right through it. Nobody would even know she was there. Now she's gone home to mom, where she will be in big trouble because I guarantee you that mom voted for Trump. And in 10 years from now, when I run yet again, she'll be voting for Trump too. I'm only kidding. I'm only kidding. We drive them crazy, we drive them crazy. They say, you know, he's not leaving, don't you? He's never leaving. They say he's going to win, he's never going to leave. You know these people, it's called Trump Derangement Syndrome, it really is. They are -- they are so good. You know what they don't know is that for any reason, after five years we do leave, which we will because I believe in that stuff, right? But you know what's going to happen to their industry? They're all going to die and fall down. It's going to be very boring out there, very boring. That's why I say at some point, every single one of them will be endorsing Donald Trump. But crazy Bernie Sanders and the Washington Democrats, by the way, Bernie is searching. Bernie, Bernie is searching, Bernie.  But the Democrats are outraged that we killed this terrorist monster, even though this monster was behind hundreds and hundreds of death.   That's true. Hey, speaking of protesters, have you seen what's happened? In Iran, the protesters are on our side first time ever, right? They're on our side. In fact, they put this big American flag on the street and the Iranians, thousands and thousands of Iranians were supposed to walk on it and trample it and step and beat the hell out of it. Every one of them went around that flag. They like Trump. They like you. I'm just your representative, but they like us. They like us. They haven't seen anything like that in a long time. They want to -- did you see it? They went around the flag. They didn't want to touch it. They love America, they love our country. That's called progress. That's called progress. But the Democrats are doing everything possible to disparage what we did with the hit on this monster. You know, many of the young men and women you see walking around without arms or without legs and without -- were done by Soleimani. That's what he loved. He loved the roadside bomb. That's what he loved. Thousands and thousands and thousands in Iraq and Afghanistan, roadside bombs. He was the king of the roadside bombs. Great percentages of people don't have legs right now and arms because of this son of a bitch, OK? And the Democrat should be outraged by Soleimani's evil crimes, not the decision to end his wretched life. They're saying, well, he was a General. He was this, he was that. You know what, number one, he wasn't supposed to be there. He was a designated terrorist by President Obama, who didn't do anything about it as usual, as usual.  They don't do anything. They designate and they don't do anything about it. He should have been killed 20 years ago. Now, here's the story with the Democrats. If I didn't kill him, and let's say, we lost three, four, five embassies or bases or thousands of people or hundreds of people or two people were killed, they would have said Trump should have taken him out. Anything we do they go the opposite. So we kill him and that was precision. Some people thought it went much too fast, went too fast. So, we kill him and they say what a horrible -- if we didn't kill him they'd say what a horrible thing, right? You know with the wall, we're building a wall. You know that, right? And by the way, they think they caught me and they'd never catch us because, you know, Mexico's paying for the wall. You know that. You'll see that. It's all worked out. Mexico spent -- it's driving them crazy. Now they say OK, he's building the wall, but Mexico didn't pay and Mexico will pay. And here's the thing, here's the thing, you'll see that it'll come out. We'll do it sometime during the debate or maybe before our debate, the real debate that people are going to watch. The people are going to watch because nobody's watching. You know, they haven't -- they haven't been doing great on the debates. I have to tell you, but we are building this wall, we're over 100 miles right now. We're going to be expanding the length. We have a lot of natural -- well, you have 1,978 miles. You need 500 miles, but 700 would be good, 750 or so would be great. We're going to now get it up. We have all the financing. You think it's easy getting financing. When people put -- I can get anything from them. I can get whatever I want in terms of money, except for a wall, and I made one big mistake. I should have said to them we will not build the wall, we don't want the wall, they would have insisted that we build it. We would have had all the money we wanted. I made a mistake. I made a big mistake.  Now, we're building a wall. It's going up and it's going up rapidly and very soon, we'll be building about a mile a day, and we should be up to over 400 miles by next year, the end of next year, and shortly thereafter, it'll be finished. And it's already having a tremendous impact on people, not being able to come into our country. Bernie and the radical Left cannot protect your family and they cannot protect our country, nor do they want to, I think. According to Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren,  who has somewhat less Indian blood in her than I do, and I have none. Remember? Oh, we hit it hard, but I hit her too early. But now, it doesn't matter. She's not going anywhere, but Bernie said, according to her Bernie said this. I don't believe that he said this because, you know, I don't know him. I don't particularly like him. He's a nasty guy, but I don't believe he said it. It's not his deal. You have to know what people say. She said, right? That Bernie said it strongly that a woman can't win for President. A woman can win for President. Fortunately, it is -- that could happen, that could happen. Who knows? But she said that Bernie said a woman can't win. I don't believe that Bernie said that. I really don't. So you know just -- Bernie, it's not the kind of thing he'd say. If you want to keep America safe, just vote Republican. We're doing so well. We're doing so well. Now, this was the -- I -- leave him -- leave him alone. Let security just take care of it. OK? You all right? Get him out of here. Good.  Good job, security. Good job. Do we love law enforcement? Do we love them? And is there ever, ever a better place to be than a Trump rally on some night during some week? You know the truth is, we have a great time, but you know what, more importantly, we get things done. We get everything done, but even President Obama's own former National Security Adviser, a highly respected General named Jim Jones, praised our action to take out Soleimani and said it was absolutely correct, and it was the absolute right thing to do. I'm sure -- I'm sure they like him very much. He sounds like my kind of guy. So Jim, if they're giving you a hard time, come on over to the Republican Party, really. No, he's a respected guy. He said we did the right thing. Everyone knows. They're saying was the attack imminent? Was it imminent? Does the fact that he's killed hundreds of thousands of people and thousands of Americans and horribly killed and wounded thousands and thousands, that doesn't matter. Was the attack imminent? I think they're going to start a new investigation. Was the attack on this -- and by the way, he was in a country he wasn't allowed to be in. You know, we don't mention that because he was designated and he wasn't allowed to be there and he was there with the head of Hezbollah and they were talking about, like, Hillary Clinton. They were talking about weddings and working out, right? Soleimani and the head of Hezbollah, they were talking about weddings, working out or Bill Clinton in the back of the airplane with the Attorney General.  Where they may have made her an offer that you're going to go to the Supreme Court or they may have said you're going to stay Attorney General. But help, help, they may have said that. Do you think they would have said that? No, nothing like that, but remember, they talked about golf and grandchildren, right? 45 minutes. You know, I like golf and I love my grandchildren. I don't think I can talk to somebody about them for 45 minutes that I don't even know, 45. I have a beautiful grandchild. He's really beautiful, he's so great. OK, what else am I going to say, right? Then? I talk -- let's talk one or two, how's Tiger doing? How's this one, how's that one? That's another five minutes, right? What am I going to do with the other 35 minutes? Maybe, I'm going to talk about Supreme Court appointments, etc. Well, we're doing very well. But at this very moment, the good people of Iraq are taking to the streets in numbers like nobody's seen before, and they're really protesting the repressive regime and demanding a better future. You know, they're great people. They're great -- the great people of Iran, they're great people. They get it. And they're tired of watching their leaders plunder Iran to stoke violence and death and war. And you know, Iran's caused these problems for 40 years, just so you understand. Reagan had it, Iran contract. Carter had it, 52 hostages, how about that? Destroyed his Presidency. He was pretty well destroyed before that -- but it didn't help. Actually, probably got Reagan elected, if you think about it, right? But, no, Carter had it, 52 hostages. Reagan had Iran contract. Obama had just, you know, he was like begging them for everything, but Obama gave them $150 billion, $1.8 billion in cash. He got zero. He got zero out of it. He got zero. I'd love to have that money back. It's a lot of money, but I've warned the Ayatollah and the government of Iran that they must not harm, hurt or kill any protesters. The whole world is watching, it's watching. They've killed thousands of protesters. We support the Iranian people and their courageous struggle for freedom. It's incredible what's going on over there. It really is, but we're watching them and we're watching very closely and we were ready. You know that night when the attack was made on us. The attack was made on us. Remember this, they killed an American. They killed other people just before that. And so, we did what we did, right? And they said it's our turn now. I said you better be careful when you say it's our turn because we had designated targets that you wouldn't -- it would have taken them 30 years to rebuild if that was even possible. That's true, that's true. And we saw those missiles launch and they were big and they were fast and they were accurate. Four of them went bad, they fell way short, but twelve of them had, and I said, man they are quick. They knew immediately what they were and they saw those missiles hit. I said how bad is it? It hit a base and an hour later or so, we get a callback. I said how many killed? Nobody, sir. I said how many hurt? They said nobody, sir. And I said they just saved themselves $1 trillion and a lot of lives. It's true, $1 trillion, not $1 billion, $1 trillion. So, they did a very smart thing and we're not looking for regime change. They've tried that with Libya. They go, Hillary Clinton, let's get rid of -- let's get rid of Libya. Let's get rid of Gaddafi. Let's get rid of Gaddafi. How's that working out, right? Let's get rid of Gaddafi, that was a Hillary deal. Then, you had Benghazi and see Benghazi, they didn't respond, they didn't respond. And then, we had Iraq.  Should be. They went into Iraq. The geniuses go into Iraq. Iraq didn't knock down the World Trade Center, just in case anybody had any question and this guy did kill. He was not a sweetheart. He was a bad guy in every way, but he did kill terrorists, right? And it became Harvard University for terrorists, right? But they did go after him, but he didn't knock down the World Trade Center. So, it got a lot of bad thinking, but we're doing a good job. We're getting the hell out. We're moving and we did something in Syria. We were guarding their border. At one point, we had thousands of people, the Syrian border between Turkey and Syria. It's been there for a thousand years. They've been fighting for many, many years under different names. I said I'm getting our soldiers out of there. I did. I took them out, and you know what I did with the soldiers? No, they don't tell you the true story because they're a bunch of corrupt people back there. It's true.  I told Turkey, you got to defend your own border. We're not going to defend your border and we get along with Turkey, we get along. But they've been there for -- and by the way, I call it a safe zone. That is the most dangerous safe zone in the world, OK? I'm looking at the audience, there is about three of you that want to be in that zone, OK? And you're very tough people, but this is the most danger -- I call it -- I call it a safe zone. Someday it may be a safe zone, but I took our soldiers out because we had an army here and we had a vast number of people here and they were going to fight. I said if they're going to fight like they have been for hundreds and hundreds of years, for centuries. Let them fight, but we're getting the hell out of there, OK? But the fake news doesn't tell you the right story, but the fake news doesn't tell you the right story. Because what I did is I took our soldiers, and you know what I did? I moved them to the oil area and we now control the oil. So, they said Trump stayed in Syria. Trump stayed. So people said to me, why are you staying in Syria? Because I kept the oil, which frankly, we should have done in Iraq, OK, a long time ago. You have no idea, the things and the decisions I've seen. So they say Trump stayed, I didn't pull out. I did pull out. We have the oil really secure. We'll see what happens with it, but we can help our friends the Kurds because that's where they got their wealth. And then ultimately, it was with ISIS, it was with -- but right now, it's with the United States military, and we also got rid of remnants of ISIS. While we're creating jobs and killing terrorists, Democrats in Congress are wasting America's time with demented hoaxes and crazy witch hunts that have been going on, by the way, from the day I came down the escalator with our future First Lady. Somebody said to me recently, President, President, it was a friend of mine. He used to always call me, Donald. Hey Donald, how are you doing? Let's go out, OK, good. Now he calls me President. I tell you this -- they always call me President. President, President, tell me what's happening? What's going on? How's it all going? You're doing such a great job. I said do me a favor call me Donald. I can't. Now when they say -- you know what that means, right? That means respect for the office of President, and you know what? We're going to keep it that way. We're going to keep it that way. We're going to keep it that way. But that's why this November, we're going back and we're going to win the House. Republicans are going to win the House because I don't know if you know it, the impeachment hoax. It's a total hoax. A part -- this is base -- just think of this. This is based on a perfect phone call. Did anybody read the transcript?  It's a perfect call. In fact, if you go back and look at Lyndon Johnson, all of them. Take a little -- you know Lyndon Johnson was sort of a tough guy. Can you imagine his phone calls? He's probably looking down or looking up and he's probably -- and he's probably saying these people have gone crazy. That's the nicest call I've ever -- in fact, somebody said I never knew you could be so nice on a telephone call. But this is all based on a simple phone call that was totally appropriate with the President of Ukraine said there was no pressure on us, didn't even know what they were talking about. The foreign minister said they want to impeach, impeach the President of the United States over a perfect phone call. It's the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on our country, ever. But we're going to go back and because of it, in Wisconsin, I don't know if you seen it. Independent voters and voters, I think of all -- of all of the voters, including Democrats moving over. We just got 195 to nothing, the Republicans in the House, which was a fix. We've got a hundred -- you know, Nancy Pelosi says it must be non-partisan. It must -- and she said it has to be clear cut. Well, number one never happened, no problem. Number two, look at the vote. Three Democrats voted with us. So I guess you could say, I guess you could say it was a non-partisan vote because they voted with us, OK? But we're going back and we're going to hold the Senate and we're going to keep the White House. But we're going to win back the House. We're going to win back the House. And I'm thrilled tonight, a man who's become a great friend of mine. He's a warrior, Senator Ron Johnson is here. Come up, Ron. What a good guy. Congressman Bryan Steil, Jim Sensenbrenner, Glenn Grothman. Glenn, come up, come up. Mike Gallagher, Wisconsin House Speaker Robin Vos, Wisconsin State Senate President, Roger Roth, State Senate President. Wisconsin's State Senate Majority Leader, Scott Fitzgerald. A friend of mine, a world champion, freak. He climbs -- would you believe it? Is Sean here? Where's Sean? Where's Sean? Get up here. I love champions. He would climb that sucker. He was the best in the world, right here from Wisconsin, right? Congressman Sean Duffy. You miss him, but you know he signed with CNN. They paid him a lot of money and they don't put him on. Why? Because I'm pro-Trump, you think that's fair, right? He's pro-Trump. So, what they've done is pay the money to silence him because he has a very important voice. I like that kind of a job. I think he's OK. He gets his check, they refused to put him on. He says good things about Trump. We don't want you on, that's CNN. That's how fake right there. Turn the camera off.  And a good friend of all of ours, a Kenosha native, Reince Priebus. Reince, come up. Thank you, man. Thank you, Reince. This is a great group of Republican people, but more importantly, it's a great group of winners. They have been so great, so -- they worked so hard and they just want to thank you all for being here tonight.  Well, thank you for your strong show of support for President Trump. You know, we ran a pretty tough campaign together here in Wisconsin in 2016 and when it was all said and done, I was tired. I did take some days off. You know who didn't take any days off? President Trump, I have never seen a man work harder, being so dedicated, so in love with America. That is why we all need to make sure that he wins a second term.  Four more years, four more years, four more years, four more years. I have also -- I'm 64 years old, I've never in my lifetime seen a man or get elected President of United States, where there wasn't some measure of well wishes. Some honeymoon period where America gathered around that individual and said Mr. President, we also -- it's a big job. We wish you well. Keep us safe. Make this country prosperous. That hasn't happened. That's because the Democrats simply won't admit he beat them. He has been tormented since the day after the election, but he has held strong. It hasn't bothered him. He just presses forward. He's made this country great, our economy's in great shape. He deserves to get re-elected. Like all of you, like all of you, he loves his country. He would do everything to defend it. We love President Trump. God bless you, President Trump. Thank you, Ron, a great guy. Thanks to strong Republican leadership like Ron, like all of them that you just saw, America is winning again, America is respected again, and America is thriving again like never before. We're doing great. We're the envy of the world. And under my administration, we now have the lowest average unemployment rate of any administration in the history of our country. And in your great state, Wisconsin -- do you ever notice with Biden, he's always going on the wrong name? And in your great state of Iowa, Iowa. It's Iowa, right? No, it's Wisconsin. Oh, I meant Wisconsin. Oh, I didn't know I was in Wisconsin. That's fine. How many times has he done that? By the way, lots of times he said. It's great to be in the state of Ohio. No, sir, you're in, you're in Florida, many times. The sad part about that, sleepy Joe is right. Do you know the sad part about that? When you do that, you can't really recover. You can be Winston Churchill, make the finest remainder of remarks, but you get killed and he does it every time. And the fake news, they give him a total pass and that's OK, it's all right.  It's going to happen to all of us someday. Does anybody get that yet? In Wisconsin, the unemployment rate has reached its lowest level in history. How's that for a sound bite? How do you beat that sound bite, right? So now, the people of Wisconsin say, well, let's see, the state set a record, the most successful it's ever been. By the way, that's because we got a lot of help from a guy named Scott Walker. Ron Johnson, all those guys, because this didn't happen so quickly, but think. So, how do you beat that? You have the most successful lowest unemployment rate you've ever had, and then, they say somebody is going to come and say we'll do a better job, really, going to do a better job? The lowest in history by far, your number one economic numbers by far. Oh, let's put somebody else in as President. I don't think so, right? But here's one that I love the most, African-American, Hispanic-American, Asian-American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded in the history of our country. And here's another one, African-American youth, you know, the way it was so high, it was so horrible. Youth unemployment has reached an all-time low in recorded history. African-American poverty has reached the lowest rate ever recorded also. And by the way, just out of curiosity, how are your 401(k)s doing? Are they good? The only question, are you at 70, 80, 90, 97? He goes, higher. What are you at? What's yours? 100%, not bad. I know who he's voting for but think of this, because this is what it's about. Is that -- you know, these companies, these big public companies, they're owned by the people, they're owned by everybody, rich people and they're owned by everybody. We have set 141 records on the stock market, highest levels ever in recorded history, 141 records. That means in less than three years, for 141 days, we set a record. Think of it. We've set 141 records. Who the hell can do that? And if our opponents had won the election, instead of going up -- you know, we're very close to 30,000 on the Dow. Nobody thought that was possible, including the fakers back there. Nobody thought that was possible. Instead of being up, you would have down -- I believe. I really believe because regulations are so important, tax cut is so important and got it all going. I believe, instead of being up massively whatever the number is, but depending on who you are, changes, but it's all way over 60, 70, 80. You guys know. You would have been down 50, 60, 70. You would have been down at a level you would probably be extremely depressed right now. You wouldn't have bought all those brand new keep America Great hats. Don't worry we're never getting rid of MAGA. Don't worry. We don't have the courage to get rid of MAGA, the greatest campaign in history. We're never leaving, but you wouldn't have bought those hats. Do you know why? You wouldn't have had the money to buy them. OK, now you can buy them. It doesn't mean a damn thing. So, let's do it real fast. The poll, right? Make America Great Again or keep America great, right? You know, I don't have to go through the whole deal, we're going to do it quick. We're going to do it quickly, ready? Who likes Make America Great Again?  You're very loyal people in Wisconsin. Who likes keep America great?  All right. So, it surprises me every single time, but Make America Great Again, MAGA has never won one of these polls. Do you know why? We've rebuilt our military, we've cut taxes, we've cut regulation, our stock market hit records. It's called Keep America Great. I mean, we've done so much and I just got a free -- see, these Democrats, they go out, spend $1 million on a poll. What I do is, I take my own poll and they'll interview 203 people, 203 people say -- they'll get it wrong because I'm always surprised, Make America Great Again, I think it's the greatest phrase ever used in politics, right? So to switch it, maybe crazy, so, we're going to use them both, OK? Well use it, but under the Trump economy, the lowest-paid earners are reaping the biggest, fastest, and largest gains. You know that, right? This is a blue-collar boom. They don't like telling you that. Under my administration, the growth in net worth for the bottom half of wage earners has increased 15 times more than under the three previous administrations. That's pretty amazing. Because they keep saying, oh, the rich are getting richer. Well, the poor are doing the best they've ever done. Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10%, proportionately. Under eight years of the Barack-Hussein Obama administration  which administration loves spying on people's campaigns. By the way, by the way, could you imagine if it were the other way around and I spied on his campaign? What would these fake news people be doing? More than 300,000 people under Obama, 300,000 people left the workforce. Under just three years of my administration, 3.5 million people have joined the workforce and nobody believed that was possible. 370 companies have signed our pledge to America's workers, providing more than 14 million Americans with new training and job opportunities. We're training them. We're getting them, Wal-Mart. So many great companies, they're training people because they can train them much better than government. 14 million, do you know who worked so hard on that? Everybody -- you've heard of Ivanka, right? Ivanka, she had such a passion for it. She's very smart. I said would you like this job? No, Dad, I want to get people working. I want to get them and help families. So, I said all right. Good. Look, she's smart. Go do whatever the hell you want to do. It's OK darling. So, she had a goal of a half a million people. She was going to get trained, get into companies. So, she'd call Wal-Mart and call Exxon, all these great companies. And all of a sudden, she hit 8 million, then, she hit 9 million. Don't forget, she wanted to do 500,000, but this is her. Then, she did 10 million. She just hit 14 million people are being trained by these great companies, 14 million, Ivanka, 14 million. Would you believe that's possible? But that's why we have the best unemployment rates. We have the best employment rates. By the way, 160 very close to 160 million people are now working in the United States. Nobody's ever even come close to that number. We've lifted 10 million people off federal welfare programs. Real median-income is now at the highest level ever recorded in the history of our country. Think of that. Real, real median-income under eight years. So, we're three years, right? But really less because when it was done, the stats, it was two and a half, but "
"Thank you very much, Vice President Mike Pence. Great job you're doing, and hello Toledo. We love Toledo. You remember I was here a lot. You remember 2016, what a year that was, right? And 2020 is going to be even better, no doubt. But I'm thrilled to hold the first rally of 2020 right here in the great State of Ohio. And as we begin the new year, our economy is booming, wages are soaring, workers are thriving, and America's future has never ever looked brighter, never. With the envy of every country in the world, we've created 7 million brand new jobs since our election, and we will soon be replacing the disaster known as NAFTA, with the incredible brand new USMCA. The historic victory for Ohio farmers, workers, and manufacturers, but really, a great victory for the United States. It's an incredible agreement. You remember, I came and I'd talked about it. I'd always talk about how bad our trade deals are. We did a brand new one with Korea. So now, we have South Korea. We just finished a big one, $40 billion with Japan. On January 15th, we're signing a monster, a big beautiful monster, $40 to $50 billion to our farmers. That's -- our farmers will take it in. I keep saying, go buy larger tractors. Go buy larger tractors. I said this, no way. I don't know if you know the story. My people wanted $20 billion of purchase, right? $20 billion, $20 billion, that's a lot of money. It's a lot of corn, $20 billion, and I said, make it $50 billion. China's very big and they said, OK. They said, sure the farmers can't produce that much. I said, let the farmers tell me that. Tell them to go out, remember? And buy a bigger what? Tractor. Buy a bigger tractor. The old producer. So, $40 billion to $50 billion of agricultural product and the manufacturers and the car companies, and we've brought a lot of car companies into Ohio, you know that. A lot of them coming in, a lot of them have already been brought in. They're coming in from Japan. They're coming in from all over the world. This is where they want to be. They want to be in the United States. That's where the action is. They're all coming back. I used to go around talking about how everyone's leaving. They were all leaving. A lot of you are victims of that leaving. These companies would leave. They'd go to Mexico. They'd go to Canada. They'd close up, they'd buy from China. Now, they're all coming back, new ones, old ones, they're all coming back, and many are coming right here to Ohio. And just in case you didn't know it, Ohio just had the best year, economically, in the history of your state. That's not bad, that's not bad, and this year's going to be even better and maybe much better. But weeks ago, I signed the largest ever investment in the United States military, $738 billion, and we created the sixth branch of the United States armed forces, the space force, and everybody's excited about that.   After years and years of devastating defense cuts, we have fully rebuilt the United States military. Some of it's still coming in. We have everything. We've got new planes, we've got new rockets, missiles, we've got new everything, and it's either here or coming in, $2.5 trillion in new investments. Our military is now stronger and more powerful than ever before. And if you remember three years ago, when I took over, we were depleted, our military was totally depleted. And by the way, speaking of our military, have we taken care of our vets with Choice, choice with Choice, that was a big thing? You know, I used to go around and the VA was a terrible situation. People would wait weeks -- he's right, he said, yes, it was right. You don't hear too much about that anymore. Do you notice? Choice and accountability. Do you know what accountability is? For 44 years, they tried to get accountability. That's somebody bad, works for the VA, you couldn't fire them, you couldn't fire them. They could be sadistic. They could be thieves. They could be whatever they were. You couldn't get rid of them. We got accountability approved, and now we say, you're fired, get out. We get somebody and that's good. 44 years, and maybe most importantly of all, is Choice. VA veterans Choice. So now, you wait in line and a lot of times you'd be waiting in line for four or five or six weeks, you couldn't see a doctor. Now you have to wait. You go out to a private doctor, you get yourself taken care of, we pay the bill. What a difference it's made. What a difference it's made. You know, when I was a little bit newer to this game --   That's OK. That's OK. They got it. They got it.  They go home to mommy, going home to mommy. They're going home to mommy. It's a beautiful sight. Thank you, security. Do we love law enforcement, by the way? So with the VA, I used to go around say why don't they do that? Why don't these people -- why don't they go to a private doctor to work something out? And I thought it was a brilliant plan. I said I'm telling you. I am such a smart guy. I said this is the most brilliant thing ever and I went back to my people and I said, you know, I have an idea. If veterans are sick, they can't get the kind of service they need or they need a certain kind of a doctor. I have an idea. It's such a great idea. You're going to go out private. You're going to pick up a doctor. You're going to get yourself fixed up. We're going to pay the bill, right? And you know what happened? And I said how, how brilliant is that? They say, sir, we've been working on that for 48 years, but we've never been able to get it approved. I was very, very disillusioned. But you know what I'm good at? Getting things approved and we got it approved. So, we signed that 11 months ago and what a difference that's made in terms of your lines and in terms of people's health. People would wait online for weeks and some people weren't very sick, and then, end up being terminally ill. They couldn't get to see a doctor. Now they go out, they get a doctor, we take care of them. We take care of our vets.  So, we're using this great power, not to pursue conflict, but to really preserve -- and I mean, in the truest sense of the word, preserve peace. We have this tremendous military and you know what that is? That is really a great fighting force, but I hope we never have to use it. I really do. You saw an example. You saw an example of that a couple of days ago. So, we seek friends, not enemies. But if you dare to threaten our citizens, you do so at your own grave peril. We've never had -- we've never had a military. What we have now, we've never had anything like it. You know, we were looking at planes that were old and tired, 50-, 60-year old planes. You've heard this story. The grandfather flew them, the son flew them, the current wonderful person flew them, the whole family flew them. Those are all gone now, folks.  Those are all gone. In October of last year, U.S. Special Operations Forces executed a daring nighttime raid that killed the blood-thirsty founder and leader of ISIS. The animal known as Al-Baghdadi is dead and the entire ISIS caliphate is destroyed, and his terrorist empire, and he was indeed a monster, has been totally demolished. We killed thousands and thousands of ISIS warriors fighters, and we have thousands of them right now locked up, where they should be. Nobody has ever done what we've done in three years. And I'll say this, when we took it over, it was a mess. We did it in a short period of time, but when we took it over, it was not good. And last week, the United States once again took the bold and decisive action to save American lives and deliver American justice, and you know what I'm talking about.  For years, these sadistic mass murderer, Qasem Soleimani, planned and executed attacks against American targets, killing and wounding thousands of U.S. service members, and many, many thousands and even hundreds of thousands of other people. As the leader of Iran's terrorist Quds Force, Soleimani spread death, destruction, and mayhem across the Middle East and far beyond. He ordered the violent assault on the American embassy in Baghdad, and you saw -- this was the anti-Benghazi. We got there very quickly. We got there very quickly. This is the exact opposite. We did it exactly the opposite of Benghazi, where they got there so late. All they saw when they got there days later were burning embers from days before. It's all they saw. We got there very early. We saw what was happening. I saw what was happening. I said what's that all about? And that was going to be another Benghazi had they broken through the final panels of glass. They were breaking it, breaking it. Had they gotten through, we would have had either hundreds of dead people or hundreds of hostages. That wasn't going to happen and I called up our great generals. I said, get them over there now. And one of our leaders, one of our really admired people said, sir, we'll have them there tomorrow. I said, no, get in the planes right now. Have them there immediately and they got there immediately. Fortunately. But he directed the recent rocket strikes that wounded four American service members, badly wounded, and killed an American citizen that was just before we happened to hit him. Soleimani was actively planning new attacks and he was looking very seriously at our embassies and not just the embassy in Baghdad, but we stopped him and we stopped him quickly and we stopped him cold. So at my direction, the United States military eliminated Qasem Soleimani and ended his rampage through, not only that part of the world but much bigger parts of the world. He was all over. He was a bad guy. He was a bloodthirsty terror and he's no longer a terror. He's dead. And yet now, I see the radical Left Democrats have expressed outrage over the termination of this horrible terrorist.  And you know instead, they should be outraged by Soleimani's savage crimes and the fact that his countless victims were denied justice for so long. You know, he was the king of the roadside bomb.  Do you know what the roadside bomb? And then, they got bigger and he'd send them over to Afghanistan and Iraq. And when you see our friends and our great wounded warriors and our great warriors, when you see them without their legs or without an arm, and with so much damage, it's most likely that he caused that damage, because that's what he liked. He loved planting the roadside bomb. So now, he's gone and that's a good thing. Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie  has condemned the U.S. military strike on Soleimani, the world's top terrorist, think of it, the world's top terrorist, and we're having people like Nancy Pelosi. It's a real genius.  Do you believe that one? Nancy, Nancy, nervous Nancy, but here's a guy who s ed and butchered civilians all over and military, whoever was in his way. And we have Bernie and Nancy Pelosi, we have them all. They're all trying to say, how dare you take him out that way? You should get permission from Congress. You should come in and tell us what you want to do.  You should come in and tell us so that we can call up the fake news, that's back there and we can leak it. That's a lot of -- that's a lot of corruption back there, folks.  No, no, but think, seriously. So they want me -- so you know, these are split-second decisions. You have to make a decision. So, they don't want me to make that decision.  They want me to call up, maybe go over there. Let me go over to Congress. Come on over to the White House, let's talk about it. When can you make it? Well, I won't be able to make it today, sir, how about let's say, a couple of days. Oh, sure, come on over. Now, we got a call. We heard where he was, we knew the way he was getting there, and we had to make a decision. We didn't have time to call up Nancy, who is not operating with a full deck. Now, they want us to call. Can you imagine calling crooked Adam Schiff? He's so crooked. He's so crooked.  Shifty Schiff, say, gee Adam, how are you doing? Listen, we have the world's No. 1 terrorist, killed thousands and thousands of people. We'd like to set up a meeting so we can discuss his execution. Would you be willing to meet? Well, I won't be able to make it this week. Well, you know, he's traveling fast. We got to get lined up, Adam, you little pencil neck, nine inches. He buys the smallest shirt collar you can get, and it's loose. Now, come on Adam, we got to meet faster, Adam. We got him lined up. We got to take this guy out, we're not going to have another shot at a baby ever again. But, but I can't make it now because I'm trying to impeach Trump. I'm trying to impeach -- even though he did nothing wrong. By the way, did you see? I did nothing wrong. They don't even know what the hell is going on. In fact, it's so weak. She doesn't want to put in the articles, it's so weak. They're, so pathetic. They're so pathetic. So, they want us to call them. Now, Schiff is a big leaker. You know, he leaks to crazy CNN, see, with a little red light on.  Not too many people are watching CNN, but he leaks. So, he'll say it, you know, off the record, I got to hurry up because everyone's watching me in the hallway of my cellphone. Off the record, they've got the No. 1 terrorist in the world, Soleimani, and they're going to get him. They're going to take him out in the next 10 minutes. Please don't tell anybody I told you, but so we have -- we have breaking news, President Trump within the next 20, 25 minutes, looks to be taking a terrorist, General Soleimani. He's going to do it and it should be happening about the next 20 minutes, 19, 18, 17. Then, we get back to the battlefield. How do you do, fellas? I don't know, sir. He disappeared. I don't know what happened to him. They want us to -- they want us to tell them so that they can leak it to their friends in the corrupt media.  You got to say, though, that's a lot of media, right? That's the way the Academy Awards used to look when it was successful. Then, they started hitting us all the time and it became unsuccessful. I love it. I love it, actually. Oh, they have some bad ones here tonight. They have some really bad ones, some real sick ones. Then, one good one, by the way, one good one. They have one good one, but some bad ones, very, very dishonest people, and we have some great ones too. You know, we have some great journalists, great reporters, but you've got a tremendous number of dishonest media people, like, I have never seen in my life before. They write things that they know are wrong. They write -- if you watched for the last three years, think of it, and then, they get Pulitzer Prizes, but it turned out to be all wrong. How do you do that? They get Pulitzer prizes for being wrong? The Pulitzer Prize doesn't mean a thing, doesn't mean a thing. I mean, I'm going to tell you about the Nobel Peace Prize. I'll tell you about that. I made a deal. I saved a country, and I just heard that the head of that country is now getting the Nobel Peace Prize for saving the country. I said, what -- did I have something to do with it? Yeah, but you know that's the way it is. As long as we know, that's all that matters, OK? I saved a big war, saved a couple of them, but under my administration, we will never make excuses for America's enemies. We will never hesitate in defending American lives, and we will never stop working to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, never. And nobody's done it like we've done it. And it's we, it's we, it's not me. It's we, it's a whole movement. There has, by the way, never been a movement like this. You know outside, I don't know what this place holds, like, 10,000 - 11,000 people, right? Outside you have thousands and thousands of people that want to get in.  There's never been a movement like this. There's never been a movement like this. And I'll tell you, maybe, I'm wrong, but this is bigger than it was in 2016 because because in 2016, I said what we're going to do. But now, I've completed more promises than I've made. I mean, I've actually completed more than I've made, right?  Like, as an example, many of you are here -- look at all those beautiful red hats, keep America great, that's good. But I never talked about -- did you ever hear me prior to the election talk about Space Force? We never talked about it. We did Space Force, but did we ever speak about it? No, there were many things that we've done that we never spoke about, right? Right to Try. You know about Right to Try, right? They've been trying to get it for 44 years, Right to Try. That's people that are very sick, terminally ill, and they can't get medicine that possibly works and very well. We have the greatest labs, the greatest doctors in the world, the greatest scientists in the world with the greatest medicines in the world. If they have something that they're pretty sure is going to work, but is going to take another six years -- I brought those times way back, by the way, way down, but they would travel to Asia, they would travel to Europe, they would travel all over the world to try and get a cure because we wouldn't sell them the medicine because we didn't want to take a chance on making the people sick. I said wait a minute, they're going to die. They're going to die. Well, sir, we can't take the liability. I said then, we'll draw up a statement assessing all liability, taking all liability away from the country, away from the insurance companies, away from the healthcare companies, away from the doctors, and with the great help of a lot of incredible Republicans and we had some Democrats help us, we passed Right to Try, and you have to see how this has worked. Some people are, being -- many, people are being saved. And you know, the drug companies didn't like it because they didn't want to take people that sick because they didn't want it on their charts. I said I understand that. Then we won't include that. We'll have a separate list over here. They said, oh, would you do that? I said, yeah, I'll do that, right? I'll do that, but I didn't talk about Right to Try. I never said I was going to get that done or we got it done. That was a tough one to get done. Sounds simple. It was tough. There's nothing easy in this country. You know, they said to me, a friend of mine, the other day, who is the toughest country to deal with, President? He used to call me Donald.  I've known this guy for a long time. I like to say 20 years, but it's much more than that. I just don't want to tell you how long, it's too long. And I say, call me, Donald, you've always called me Donald. I can't. He calls me, Mr. President, I've known this guy forever. He used to call me, hey Don, let's go out to dinner. You know, before he'd go, hey, let's go out to dinner. Now, he goes, Mr. President, sir, how are you, right? How are you? But what we've done, and he said, he called me -- he said what you've done, he's never seen anything like it. So many people are saying that. We are all together doing something, not only in terms of the election, not only in terms of what we're doing right now. Don't forget, it's a long way to the election. You know, we have what, 10 months? That's a long way. This is my first stop of the year. First major stop of the year. This is it and we start, by the way, let's do one of those polls right now. Do you mind? But is there anything more fun than a Trump rally? Here we are. Is there anything more -- ready? So, we have the greatest phrase of all time, Make America Great Again, and in all due respect, I'll never end -- I'm a little superstitious. I'll never end it, Make America Great Again. But I see all those hats, I see all those hats, changing it a little bit, but Make America Great Again. And I said, you know today, we just hit the highest stock price in the history of our country. So, your 401ks are at records, your stocks are great, but what it really means to me is jobs, more importantly, than anything else. We have the best jobs, the best everything, right? But we just hit -- so, I can't really say, Make America Great Again. Our military is rebuilt, $2.5 trillion, our military is rebuilt, we're doing great numbers, economically, our country is the strongest it's ever been. You have factories moving back into Ohio. You never saw anything like it, right? You had your best year.  So, when I say, Make America Great Again, what that sort of means is, like, we didn't get there, but we did get there. So now, I have a new theme, it's called Keep America Great. Keep America, right? Now, I'm a very loyal person and I am concerned about changing the theme because Make America Great Again because I think it was the greatest political campaign in history. I mean, crooked Hillary spent --  three or four times more money than us, right? So, crooked Hillary, wait, crooked -- you should lock her up, I'll tell you. Crooked Hillary spent three or four times more. So, I want to be a little bit. You know, I have to say that was a great campaign and I don't want to change it. I don't want to have this incredible 2016, then go with something, and if something ever happened, oh, this country will go to hell. Oh, I hate to see -- you know the stocks, I'm talking about records. You'll have records this way, you're going to have records, get used to it. Because if that happened, you will see things happen that aren't good.  But I have to now say, do I want to change the greatest theme in political history? Make America Great Again with Keep America Great, right? So, so, let's take a little  , right? We'll go Make America Great Again, you'd clap if you want that. Then we would go, Keep America Great, you'd clap if you like that, OK, are you ready? First, Make America Great Again.  Ready? Keep America Great.   So, you know that -- I call that a free poll -- that's better than a poll. Do you ever see these crazy polls that come out? We're doing great in the polls, by the way. Remember I used to come out and talk about the polls? We'll start doing that very soon. We're doing great in the polls, but this is like a free poll. Somebody else would go out, they have all this money that they raised and they give somebody $1 million, and they'll ask 200 people that question. And then, they'll say, well, Make America Great Again is better. But I will tell you, I haven't heard one thing with that was true. With all of these, I would have, I would have said instinctively, Make America Great Again, could not be beaten. I've probably done this ten times. I have never had it win, it's Keep America Great, and that's what we're doing, but we're going to use both. We're going to use both. We're going to use both because there's no way that I'm going to jettison Make America Great, right? There's no way. We're going to use both, but this hat is a hot seller. We're selling that hat like nobody's ever sold the hat before, I will say. Oh, it's great, good. Keep America Great. So, we're going to use both, but Keep America Great. That's probably going to be the dominant theme. For eight years, the Obama administration enabled and emboldened  the Iranian regime. They gave Iran $150 billion, including $1.7 billion in hard cold cash.  Can you imagine? No, no, can you imagine $1.7 billion, $1.8 billion in cash? So, the foolish Iran nuclear deal financed Iranian aggression while allowing a quick path to nuclear breakout, that's what it did. And by the way, it expires so soon. They can have nuclear weapons.  They're not, as I said before, they will not have nuclear weapons. By subsidizing Iran's malign conduct, the last administration was leading the world down the path of war. We are restoring our world to the path of peace, peace through strength, peace through strength, and our country is doing great, and I think, something is going to happen that's got to be good. You know, we've sanctioned the hell out of Iran and we just put more yesterday. They hit us with 16 missiles, and I said, how many? We were ready to go, we were ready to go. I said how many, how many died? How many were wounded? Sir, none. None? Pretty good warning system, none. How many were hurt? How were hurt? None, sir. So, we didn't do anything. We were ready. We were ready, not that I wanted to, but we were ready, you have no idea. A lot of people got very lucky. We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many great Republican leaders, a man who has helped me right from the beginning, a very special guy, Representative Bill Johnson, Bill. Where is Bill? Thank you, Bill. Thank you, Bill. Great job, great job and his fellow friends, Jim Jordan, . We have a lot of your Congressmen, right now in Congress, they said, sir, should we come with you? I said, no, stay back and vote. They're voting on some pretty important stuff, right? But we were able to get Bill. We thank you, Bill, very much, great job, great warrior. Thank you, Bill. Ohio Lieutenant Governor, Jon Husted. Thank you, Jon. Thank you, Jon. Thank you, Jon. Great job.  State Treasurer, Robert Sprague. Thank you, Robert, and you have a lot more money in the bank right now, Robert, as Treasurer, right, than you ever did? Ohio Supreme Court Justice, Judy French. Thank you, Judy. Great job. State Senate President, a man highly respected, Larry Obhof. Thank you, Larry. And a woman who really has become a great friend of mine. She took over this party. We fought like hell. We had some other people that had their mind on taking over the party, but they'd never had a chance against Jane Timken, Jane. And the man who is in charge of my campaign in Ohio, I had a choice of five people. I said I like this guy's name. I don't know why his name is Bob Paduchik. Why do I like his name? And I said Bob, how are we doing? He said you're going to win big, sir. Because you know, you keep hearing, you cannot win unless you win the great State of Ohio, that's these guys, and once I was leading Ohio by a lot in the poll, they never said that anymore. It's terrible. They were saying it when they thought I wasn't going to win, but we were ahead right from the beginning. But Bob was -- incredibly did a fantastic job and Bob, I'd call him up. I'd say, Bob, we don't have the Governor, we don't have the head of the Republican Party, you know, it's a minor problem, you're running as a Republican, and he punked out on us, right, this guy? We don't have any. He said, sir, you have the people. I said, well, what happens -- he was  I said so Bob, let me ask you just out of curiosity, I don't have these people, the leaders are not with us. Is that good or bad? He said, sir, it's great. You just went up three points. Would you believe this by not having it? And he said, don't worry, sir, you're going to win, and we won by a lot. And now, I understand we're up by a lot more than we ever thought possible. But Bob was fantastic. Thank you, Bob. And thanks to Republican leadership work, can you believe this? I have a 95% approval rating. Can you believe this? And do you know who second is? We do, we do, we do.  Do you know who second is? Ronald Reagan at 87%, Ronald Reagan. And then, one of these characters back there, they put me in a contest with the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? So, who do you like better, Trump or Abraham Lincoln? I said Abraham Lincoln,  So I said, who do you like better? They say they did a poll on this. I think I remember the numbers. All I know is, we won against Abraham, Honest Abe. We won 53 to 47. Do you believe that, Abraham Lincoln? I went back to the First Lady, I said First Lady, I just beat Abraham Lincoln in a poll. I don't know if they had polls back there, but Abraham Lincoln. I always say I can be more Presidential than any candidate that ever ran than any President, other than maybe, Abraham Lincoln when he's wearing his hat. But I like Abe Lincoln, but we're doing well. We have a lot of support. Do you know why? Because our country is doing so well, our country is doing so well.  And when we went out, we started and we went right to the top of the polls. It wasn't like these folks today. They are 2%, 3%, but they're claiming. We went right to the top from day one. We never missed center stage in the debates. Remember those great debates? We actually got high ratings. They don't get very good ratings anymore. They're like, it's like death, watching, I should watch. You know, I'm supposed to watch. It's like my job. Try and watch, watch the competition, but it's like watching death. Those debates are boring. They're boring. You got to sit through those things for two or three hours. You got to really be committed to the country to do that. I mean, you have some real beauties. Do you see where Pocahontas is slipping badly? And Bernie, Bernie has gone up.  He's surging, Bernie's, crazy Bernie, he's surging, and Biden doesn't know the difference between Iran and Iraq. He's gotten it wrong around four times. He goes when we took our shot at Iraq. No, no, no, they all say no, no, they're screaming. It's Iran, Iran. Ah, what, what?  And his son, right? Where's Hunter, where's Hunter?  No, I went to one of them. I said, we have to have where's Hunter as a witness. They said, what do you mean where's Hunter? I said that's his first name. I have now made his first name where's, where's Hunter? Here's a guy made no money, got thrown out of the military forces. I think the Navy, got thrown out, had no job, had no nothing, so, he went from that to making millions of dollars a year, as soon as, sleepy Joe became Vice President, right? He made millions of dollars a year. Would anybody in this room do that for millions of -- I would. We all would. He made millions and millions of dollars a year. Ukraine took care of him. How about China? He walked out with $1.5 billion to manage, and he never did it before. He didn't know anything about oil and gas. He was making a fortune. So, where's Hunter? Where the hell are you Hunter? But I'll tell you, I sort of hope, it's Joe because he will hear where's Hunter every single debate, nine times a debate. Where's Hunter?  And then, you have Buttigieg, Buttigieg, boot, edge, edge. I, I can't -- nobody, nobody can pronounce. Nobody has any idea how the hell to say his name. So, what they do is they call him, Mayor Pete. You know, like Mayor Pete. Here comes Mayor Pete, doesn't do a very good job. Alfred E. Neuman, you're right, howdy doody. Some people say, howdy doody, howdy doody. The problem is a lot of people don't remember Alfred E. Neuman, don't say that, you look much younger than that I must say. So, you have Mayor Pete. I mean give me a break. Can you believe Mayor Pete? This is going to be the President of the United States. This is going to be -- how would he be against negotiating against President Xi of China? And we just made one hell of a deal. You're going to see the numbers very soon, you know. One hell of a deal. They didn't like those tariffs. Thanks to Republican leadership, America is winning again and America, most importantly, is respected again, respected like never before. And you know for years, NATO has taken advantage of the United States.  We protect Europe from Russia and the numbers have been going down for many, many years, 15 years, 18 years. The numbers is like a roller coaster down and I went over, and I said folks, you got to pay your bills, you're delinquent, you know, you're delinquent. And then, they don't like me. They say we like Obama better. They should like Obama better. Obama would go in and say, thank you very much for coming. I appreciate it. Bye-bye. I'm going back to Washington. I'm going back. I'll be violating the carbon footprint. I'm going to Hawaii to play golf. I drive to play a round of golf and the course I own doesn't even cost them anything. He flies to Hawaii, nobody cares. If I drive 20 minutes, it's like Donald Trump is playing golf today. He violates the carbon footprint, but, but just think of it, think of it, think of where we've come. Think of where we've come. A great congressman from Tennessee, they have -- it's a great state. They have early voting, very early voting, probably the earliest, and he said I don't know. I just left. I just left Tennessee. This was in November. This was the election 2"
"Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to Vice President Pence. He's a good guy. We've done a great job together. Merry Christmas, Michigan. Thank you, Michigan. What a victory we had in Michigan. What a victory. Was that one of the greatest? Was that the greatest evening? But I'm thrilled to be here with thousands of hardworking patriots as we celebrate the miracle of Christmas, the greatness of America and the glory of God. Thank you very much. And did you notice that everybody is saying Merry Christmas again? Did you notice? Saying Merry Christmas. I remember when I first started this beautiful trip this beautiful journey, I just said to the first lady, ""You're so lucky I took you on this fantastic journey. It's so much fun. They want to impeach you. They want to do worse than that. By the way, by the way,  by the way, it doesn't really feel like we're being impeached. The country is doing better than ever before. We did nothing wrong. We did nothing wrong and we have tremendous support in the Republican Party like we've never had before nobody's ever had this kind of support, but this sacred season in our country is thriving and it's thriving truly like it has never -- it has never happened before to the extent. What's happening now -- and by the way, your state, because of us, not because of local government, but because of us, because of the job that we've done, because I understand she's not fixing those potholes. That's what the word. It was all about roads and they want to raise those gasoline taxes, and you -- we don't want to do that. But she's not fixing the potholes. But Michigan's had the best year it's ever had. Best year it's ever had. And that's because we have auto companies expanding and thriving and they're coming in from Japan and they're coming In from a lot of other places. Look what's happening, and you know, I don't know if you know this, but probably 10 years ago, I was honored. I was the man of the year by, I think somebody, whoever. I was the man of the year in Michigan. Can you believe it? Longtime. That was long before I ever decided to do this. I was happy. I had a beautiful life. What the hell did I do this for? But look how we're doing. Do we love it? I love it.  But, anyway, I was the man of the year and probably, like close to 10 years ago, and I came to Michigan -- He said, ""You're still the man of the year."" Who said that? Thank you. So I came in and I remember the speech so well. I said, ""Why are you allowing them to steal your car companies? Why are you allowing them to go to Mexico and to go from China, where they come in from China, they build them in China. They sell them into a country with no tax and you lose your jobs. You lose your factories, the companies leave and you get nothing."" Why are they -- I asked that a long time ago and we've stopped it. We've stopped it. Do you see that? And we just made the USMCA -- we're getting rid of NAFTA, which I think is the worst trade deal ever and it's very exciting. It's a great deal. It's a great deal. It's going to stop exactly what we were just talking about. It makes it very very prohibitive. They can do it, but they've got to pay a hell of a big price to do it. And history has proven that stops some. But we have a great USMCA that we negotiated with Mexico, with Canada. Now, from the standpoint of the farmers, you know, what's going on, we had tremendous trade barriers in Canada. We had a tax on dairy products, 297% tariff. Nobody talked about it with Canada, and we had some really bad things with Mexico. We now have a wonderful deal and if we didn't have a good deal, you know what I would have done? What? I would have put tariffs on both countries, and that would have been it. Right? That would have been it. Unfortunately, the deal has been sitting with Nancy Pelosi for a long time and what happened  and she had a lot of pressure, especially from manufacturing areas, farm areas, a lot of pressure to sign it. So here's what happens, so I get along with labor. You know I had a lot of union labor vote for me, tremendous amount of labor. In New York, where I come from, we have a lot of unions and that's OK, that's fine. So we left a little stuff for the union because we figured to get it signed, we'll give a little bit and we did it and we have one great deal, and now you have the Democrats tried to take credit for this deal and that's OK. Whatever it takes. For seven months it sits, they don't do anything, we give -- and by the way, I spoke to the unions the day before, I say, ""Fellas, you got to get it done."" And you know, and Union Labor loves me, and I love you too, sir. I love you too, sir. So we have a great deal with Mexico, with Canada. And it is trite. I say it out loud because I say to them right now, they haven't wanted to break the deal, that's OK. If somebody wants to break a deal with me, you always have to have an alternative, right? And this country, the deals we made. You know we did a deal with South Korea that's great. We did a deal with Japan, $40 billion deal with Japan. And we're not -- That was just a little piece of a deal. OK. That was a piece of a deal. Then I said to Japan, ""Look, you've got to make this deal. Oh, we're gonna put a 20% tariff on the cars."" And that's more money than anything we're talking about. So we have  That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. Get her out.  Get her out of here. Oh, well you're about to hear the greatest speech you've ever heard and that's going to be the publicity because all the fake news back there will say: Massive riot, massive riots, fake news. But seriously, look, look, look, they won't say it. They won't say it because when we have protesters all in favor, they don't talk about it, but there's a slob, there's a real slob, wait, wait a minute. She'll get hell when she gets back home with mom. But she made -- Look. She screams a little bit and you know what I like to avoid them, because, you know, I'll tell you the big problem. I could hardly hear her. What happens is all of you people go crazy, ""Look, look, look."" And the place -- OK, so there's one disgusting person who made -- Wait, wait. Who made it -- I wouldn't say this, but made a horrible gesture with the wrong finger, right? Now, they won't say that, the fake news. They won't say. If one of us did that, it would be like the biggest story ever. I think it's terrible. And I'll tell you the other thing, I don't know who the security company is, but the police came up, but they want to be so politically correct, so they don't grab a risk likely and get her out. They say, ""Oh, would you please come? If you please come with me. Sir, ma'am, would you -- "" And then she gives the guy the finger and you -- Oh, oh. You got to get a little bit stronger than that, folks Now I hate to say it. I hate to say it but, of course, the guy's afraid that, you know, he'll grab a wrist slightly and he'll be sued for the rest of his life, that you've destroyed her life. No, but I think it's a terrible thing. And here's what happened so these fakers back there, they're the most dishonest people in the world. They'll go back --  This is one person who made a horrible gesture only because the security band let her have so much time and usually I have to say, the police do an incredible job. They do it so quickly, and they're going to make that like it was the biggest event like you know, so just forget it. We know, we know what's going on, and that's the good thing with live television. Look at all that live television back there. So, in addition to the USMCA, which is going to be great for the automobile business, should even be good for the cereal business, Battle Creek. Battle Creek. I've been eating Battle Creek cereals for a long time, too much, too much. They're still making great cereal, right? I hope. I know the area is doing good, but in addition, we made a great deal with China. And you know, China's paying us billions and billions of dollars a year, they never gave us 10 cents. They've been giving us a billion dollars and we're leaving the 25% tariffs on 250 billion, they didn't mention that. We're leaving, you know, we're making another group of tariff, seven and a half percent. This gives us a lot of currency to do the Phase 2 deal, which they want to start. but we'd, take it in billions of dollars and to help the farmers who were targeted, 16 billion and 12 billion the previous year, helps the farmers. So you know we do? Out of that big check that we get out of, money flows into the treasury, right? Out of the big check, we gave the farmers $16 billion and 12 billion for the previous . And you know the incredible thing? And I was with a lot of farmers, I was with a group of 36 farmers at the White House, you know they said to me? I said, ""Don't worry about it, we're going to take care, you, guys."" And I used a bad word. You know what word I used? We're going to get you a subsidy, and they said this two years ago. I said, ""How much were you targeted for?"" This was the first year. ""Twelve billion, sir."" The second year was 16, they were a target, that's what they didn't get from China. So I said, ""It's all right. We're going to give you a subsidy of the same and we're going to take it out of the tariffs and we're gonna have billions and billions of dollars left out."" And they said, ""Sir, we don't want money. We just want a level playing field."" I've never seen that before. It's true. They just want to be able to have a level playing field. I could -- Because, you know, I said in a lot of those meetings, and whether it's countries or whether it's companies, everybody wants money. The farmers just wanted a level playing field, but we took good care of our farmers, that I can tell you. And we made the largest ever investment in our military, $738 billion, all made in the USA, right? . So we will have invested in our military, since I'm here, which is less than three years, our military, by the way, in all due respect to the previous two administrations, our military was -- was depleted, it was depleted, it was in bad shape. We had fighter jets that were 35 years old. We had planes that were 60, as you heard, where the father flew him. The grandfather flew him, and now the young son comes in, we've got the best equipment in the world now spent $2.5 trillion, made in the USA, two and a half trillion. We will shortly that'll be all finished. We're going to have the greatest milit -- we have the best planes. We can have the best ships, we're building a lot of ships now. We're building the most powerful weapons in the world. Now, we don't want to even talk about it. We never want to use them, but you know the way we're not going to have to use them is if we have them. We're building submarines, the power of which nobody's ever seen before. Nobody's ever seen before. You know it's funny, we have these kind of companies coming, I'd like to make good deals. You like to make good deals, that's what we do, right? So these countries that come in, prime ministers, presidents, sometimes dictators, those we can't deal with too much. Sir, we'd like to buy a nuclear submarine. I say, ""No, thanks."" I turn them all down. You have no idea how many people, but we're building some of the -- They're most powerful weapons ever made by man or womankind. I say mankind and womankind.  See in the old days -- in the old days I would say mankind, now I say mankind, womankind. This way I don't get in trouble with our friends, but we have the most powerful in the world and what we're doing is incredible. What we're doing with missiles with rockets with everything. And you know what, again, we don't want to ever have to use it. But we will never have anything like what's mostly been built. We have the F-35, it's tough. It's tough. And I was at one of the areas, where they're displaying it and I went up to the pilots and honestly, they're better looking than Tom Cruise, OK. Good movie. Good guy too, by the way. The face is equal, maybe slightly better, the body is bigger and stronger. They can definitely -- just like me, no. They can definitely fight, they're the real deal. These guys are so good-looking, I said, You could be a movie star, go to Hollywood."" ""No, sir. I like doing what I'm doing."" So, I said to these guys -- You gotta see. Just like central casting, I said, I said, ""Fellas, How good is this plane? They said, ""Sir, it's great."" ""Why?"" ""Because the enemy can't see it."" That helps. Stealth. It's actually called super stealth. So I said, ""You mean they can't see, so you shoot at them, but they can't."" He said, ""They have no idea where we are, sir."" I said that sounds good to me. Nobody does it, nobody could do it. We have the whole thing and we bought it a lot of those planes. We wanted a lot of great stuff and I won't tell you this story, but very early on, I thought we were going to have a problem someplace and one of the generals came up to me and said, ""Sir, don't go, don't do it."" ""Why?"" ""We don't have the ammunition."" And I said two things: I never want to hear a president, right? We never want to have a president hear that again, nor do we want a president to have to go through the crap that we're going through right now. Those two -- But you know another thing we did, which to me is such an incredible thing to have done. It's such an honor. So our last U.S armed forces, the last branch was the air force, right? That was many, many decades ago. We are now building and we have now gotten funding for the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force, the Space Force. So I'll be able to tell my kids someday and everybody else, ""See that Space Force, that was my baby."" And you think that was easy? That's not easy. Because you have Democrats that do not like our military. They do not like our military. And we did something yesterday because for three years I would see people that run, incredible people, the heads of the Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the country, and every year that come in and they'd be looking for help, they needed help and they do need help with it and it's great and they do an incredible job, so many great schools, but they need help. And every year they have to come and come, I get to know them actually. I said, ""The only bad thing is you won't see me too much anymore, because we just provided record funding for our nation's historically black colleges and universities.""  Right. And it's long term, they're not going to have to come. So I said, ""Look. You know we could do it, what we do it every year. We'll do what we have. What do you want? They said, let's just have it. So we'll miss them, but they are great people, they've done an incredible job. And our extraordinary jobs boom, which created another 266,000 jobs last month.  And then you add the undercount from the previous to much close to 300,000 jobs, and you know they said -- If you're a business watch, which I am. I love watching business, but they said they were guessing, could be. 70,000 could be 80,000, maybe 90, maybe 110, somebody said. Then the number comes out, 266,000 with an adjustment. Remember about four months ago, when we had one little period, right? We had one a little period where there was a little downturn. They said, ""Oh, oh, we think we're going into a recession."" I said, ""Don't worry about it."" ""We think we're going into a recession."" They were willing to lose their wealth, they were willing for their stocks and whatever the hell they own. What do you guys own back there? Let it go, they'll go bust, they don't care anything to get rid of us, not me, us. And you know what? Then all of a sudden and now, for the last couple of weeks, we've said brand new records in the history of the various stock markets.  So, as of yesterday, we've had 133 record days in the stock market now, and that's in less than three years. So when I see that, I don't care, because I don't -- I'm not allowed to have stock. I can't have stock. They considered the conflict of interest, and that I can't understand, I mean, I can't. But you know what? I'll tell you what. What I see, I see tremendous job growth because we're setting records. But you know what I also see? The 401(k)s, where people are up 90%, they're up 97%, they're up 82%. I tell you this story all the time. I mean, I have people coming up to me and a man came up, a policeman. I've told this story, but I had -- I've had many, so many times, but this guy in particular, because I was early, and that was a year ago, that was a long time ago. Right now it's much higher than that. But he said, ""Sir, I want to thank you. My wife thinks I'm a loser. All my life we never did well with the 401(k)s, with stocks. I -- everything I invested. I'm up 72%, sir. She thinks I'm a financial genius. She's so in love with me. She's so in love."" So he said, ""She said, Darling, I think you're one of the greatest investors. Why didn't you do this professionally?"" ""And I don't even know what I'm doing, sir? I just have all these stocks."" So I just want to tell you, I look at -- at a 401(k), everyone -- Who has 401(k)s here, right? So that's what I see. I don't care about the rich ones. I care about everybody. I care -- I care about everybody, actually. So Ford Motor Company just announced that it is investing $1.5 billion in two auto factories in the Detroit area, creating another 3,000 Michigan, and that's on top of the many other investments we've gotten from Japanese companies, car companies and other companies, but they're all coming in and a lot of them are coming to Michigan. And I say, ""Hey, go to Michigan."" Sometimes they'll go south and that's OK, whatever. I want them in this country. But ideally, I want to fill them up. We're doing so well in Michigan with the auto companies. Now you're back, you're back. So you're back, very proud of it. Very proud of it. But while we're creating jobs, fighting for Michigan workers and achieving numbers that you've never seen before, incredible victories for the American people are happening. The radical left in Congress is consumed with hatred and envy and rage, you see what's going on. I'll tell these people are crazy. You ever hear or see the economy stupid. You know, that was Clinton saying, ""If you have a good economy -- "" I have the greatest economy in the history of this country  and nobody talks about it. Nobody talks about it. You know if you're a Democrat, they say, ""Oh, it's the economy."" If the economy's any good. And let me just tell you a little secret, if crooked Hillary would have won, your economy would have crashed. You were going down. The regulations were taking it down, the taxes were taking it down. Instead of being up 92% or whatever you're up a lot, you would have been down, you would have been in less than half it was crashing for all those people that would say, ""Oh, it's the Obama."" Let me tell you something, you were dying. And if you look at that first period of a couple of months, it was a disaster, but it was heading south as sure as you're standing and I'm sorry we couldn't get your seats, we didn't have any room. And by the way, 20,000 people outside had to leave. You know it's so cold outside we tell them, ""Don't worry about a screen. Go home, go home and watch."" But we had -- we had -- This is about a 5,500-seat arena and I said to my people, ""Why so small?"" Are we -- Are we spoiled? I watch these guys come in like Biden, he has a -- he has a big rally and they get 93 people show up. No, it's true, I don't understand it. And did you see the new polls from USA Today? Came out, I'm killing everybody, and they hate me. USA Today hates me. USA Today hates me. But there's a poll we're beating everybody, but -- So Biden has this rally, like you know, they got 200 seats, but only a small number of people. So you know they do? They set up a roundtable. So think of these people. They come in, they think they get to listen to the speech they end up sitting at a roundtable discussing. They must have been happy, right? We don't have -- We don't have enough room for round tables, I'm sorry, folks. No, they set up a roundtable, but I think we're doing great. And you know, how do you beat what we've done with the economy, with our great vets, with choice? You finally got a choice. They've been trying to get it for almost 50 years.  See these people back here. Your seat or stand is better, right? But you know what? They're going to be much more famous, because the cameras can't see you, they can only see them, and you know the other thing, the cameras, you ever notice? I go to these stadiums. 25, 30,000 people, they never show the crowd. You know why? Because they don't want to have  -- If Crazy Pocahontas -- If Crazy Pocahontas goes to the middle of Central Park or whatever place -- she's in Manhattan. You got me -- and people -- I mean I could have -- I could have Baron Trump go into Central Park and he'd get a crowd that would be just as big. He's 13. He got a bigger crowd. But if she has to crowd, ""Oh, this crowd is so big."" I've had crowds over the last couple of weeks, we went to different Pennsylvania and Florida, but I mean, thousands and thousands of people can't get into these NBA arenas, right, big arenas and we set records that everyone because we use the floor. Thank you. I appreciate it. But we use the floor right, the basketball court, so we set records at every arena and they never even mentioned the crowds. They never mentioned the crowds, it's sort of amazing. You know what? I don't think we've ever had an empty seat from the time I came down the escalator that's a long time ago. I don't think we've ever had an empty seat.  Now, what the crooked media does, though, if you got like over here, look how packed it is and it's thousands outside, but I please go home you're going to catch pneumonia, but -- but here's the thing if this man and that beautiful woman happened to get up because they want to go to the bathroom. Those cameras will turn to those two seats and they'll say, ""Trump wasn't able to fill up the arena."" You know. I always get nervous when I see some -- I know they're coming back, nobody ever leaves our speeches because is there a better place to be in the world than a Trump rally? Never. Nobody. But every time I see I see a man get up. I see a beautiful woman with a baby in there getting up the babies going crazy and getting up, they're going to take -- but I know they're going to be right back. And they say fill those two seats. I don't want them to see it because they'll say, couldn't fill up the arena. These are truly dishonest people. After three years of sinners and witch hunts, hoaxes, scams, tonight the House Democrats are trying to nullify the ballots of tens of millions of patriotic Americans  capped off with one of the greatest election evenings in history. Wasn't that the greatest? Remember when they all said, remember when they all said, No, no. You can't win Michigan."" And then I went -- I did win in Grand Rapids, right? Grand Rapids. We have 32,000 people that night, it was one o'clock in the morning. That means it was election day when I started speaking. Hillary, Barack Obama, Michelle Obama, and Bill Clinton, they did an emergency trip, they did an emergency trip to Michigan at six o'clock. They got here at primetime, they started to speak. She had 500 people. I got here at one o'clock in the morning the next day, which is now Election Day, 30 -- How many people were there? Thirty-two thousand, 32, 32,000 people outside, inside. It was the last speech in Michigan. And they say, ""Well, sir, it's very hard to win Michigan."" I said, ""Why would it be hard? Here's the beautiful thing, everything I told you I've done, but much more so. I said I was going to bring car companies back. I said I was going to bring in -- I just hope you people know that. I just hope you know it. But I'll never forget that night and, you know, in all fairness to Bill Clinton, you know he used to be a friend of mine until I ran for office. I like him, I like him. But he told, you know, the way they tried to shut him out, right? Because he's a pro, he's an instinct guy, right? His instinct. He doesn't need polling companies that -- Who the hell wants him? You know, if you want a polling company, pick up the newspaper. The problem is the newspaper polls are more fake than the news they write. They write fake polls. It's true. They write fake polls. You call them suppression polls, you read them and you get depressed because it looks like you're doing badly. They do that. I think it's almost worse than what they write and you can't get much worse than what they write. So what happens -- So what happens is Bill Clinton said to crooked Hillary, his very dishonest way, said Crooked Hillary -- Do you think he calls her Crooked Hillary? He might. Maybe he just calls her crooked. He said crooked, I'm telling you. Crooked. I don't like what I'm seeing in Michigan. I don't like what I'm seeing in Wisconsin. He said, ""I -- I took a trip to Wisconsin and I'll tell you what, they had those Trump-Pence signs all the way to the convention area, every lawn, every lawn. I don't like Wisconsin."" And they said, ""Oh, don't worry about it."" What the hell does he know? They told him, ""What do you know?"" Remember they shut him out at the end, they didn't want him talking? He was right. I mean I don't want to cause any problems in the family, but he was right. But he talked about Wisconsin. He talked about Michigan, he said, ""Crooked, I'm telling you, crooked. I don't like what I see in Michigan. I was in Michigan and I'm telling you that those damn signs, I saw some houses where that four of them on one lawn and two of them on the car."" And he said, you horrible human being. You better start listening to me because you're going to get your ass whipped. And you know what happened? You know what happened? She didn't listen, fortunately. And she didn't come to Michigan enough and she didn't come to Wisconsin, I think, at all, right? Because her polling data look good. It looked good to me too every time I went there with these crowds. So we won Wisconsin. We won Michigan and the great Ronna McDaniel -- Where's Ronna? Where's Ronna? Ronna, she was so horrible. I didn't know her. Ronna McDaniel. And she was so aggressive. She kept calling, said, ""Could you please come out to Michigan?"" I said, ""Who the hell are you? And I said -- I said, ""What do you mean, another trip? So they were made. We had these big crowds. I made it again. Then finally, I said, two weeks out, I said, ""Ronna, no more. We're gonna win it or we're not."" OK. OK. I promise. Two days later I get a call, ""Sir, could you please come out to Michigan one more time."" It's true. So and so. She was the campaign chairman in Michigan, so, I said OK. And then, I got the ultimate call, six o'clock in the evening for this final deal in Grand Rapids. Sir, could you come to Michigan tonight? And I thought I was just about finished, I went to a last great state and I said it's over. Now I sit back and I watch and let's see what happens, right? But she said, could you come to Michigan? I said that is the most aggressive human being I've ever met. And we did it. And we won Michigan, and the word is, that we're much higher right now in the polls than we were ever in 2016 in Michigan. You better remember when you walk in the -- you know, it's November 3rd this time, November 3rd. By the way, though, that evening, that incredible evening in November, right? One of the biggest nights in the history of television. You never hear them say it so I might as well. That election -- and my debates, you see their debates are dying. Who wants to watch Buttigieg? Buttigieg.  Buttigieg. You know that when you pronounce it. They say -- I heard some guy saying, no, no, because it's an unpronounceable name. That's why they call him Mayor Pete, right, Mayor Pete. Mayor Pete, I've had you up to here, Mayor Pete. No, Buttigieg is leading. How does But -- no, you say it this way. You say it, they call him Mayor Pete because nobody can pronounce his last name. That's only -- you know, people think it's a -- by the way, you know what I'm not going to say bad things about him. You know what I'd love to win. I thought I knocked off Pocahontas. I did it a year too early, a year too early. I give her credit. She then started to come back. I don't think she's going to make it though. She's gasping, she's gasping for air, but I saw them pronouncing Buttigieg and they said here's what you do, boot, edge, edge, say edge like the edge of a building, edge, edge. Boot, edge, edge, Alfred E. Newman, you got to be older to know what that means. But Congressional Democrats are directly attacking 2.3 million Michigan voters who rose up in 2016, won the state, and now, the Democrats are very upset. They want to get Michigan back. They just don't know how to do it because they didn't do a thing for Michigan.  They didn't do anything for Michigan. You just like -- all they did was take away your companies and let them go to Mexico and other places.  You know, I don't know if you know it, Mexico has 32% of your car business. You know that, right? Not because of me, they're not moving, but Mexico has 32, 32% of our car business moved to Mexico. Can you believe this?  Before I got there, but that's what I used to talk about. I said what I was honored that night. I said how do you let this happen? How do you let all these companies leave? It used to -- it's probably maybe the single biggest reason I ran for President. It might be the single and I had a lot of them. Immigration, I had a lot of them, but that may be the single biggest. With today's illegal, unconstitutional, and partisan impeachment  the do-nothing Democrats and they are do-nothing. All they want to do is focus on this. What they could be doing are declaring their deep hatred and disdain for the American voter. This lawless, partisan impeachment is a political suicide march for the Democrat Party. Have you seen my polls in the last four weeks? It's crazy. You know why? Because people, you know, we have an election right down the road. I announced three months ago that I'm running, right? I'll give you a little clue. I announced because I figured once they announced, they'd never impeach. Nobody would be so stupid, but they've been trying to impeach me from day one. They've been trying to impeach me from before I ran, OK?  Because if you remember when I ran, I went immediately to number one, never came off number -- we had center stage from day one, in the debates. So we had -- I don't know 14, 15 debates. We had a total of 18, actually, people forgot there was one that they never talk about. But that's OK, but we had 18 people and I was center stage, and I said, wait a minute. This is no good. I want odd numbers because if you're center stage if you have a 10, that means two people are in the middle. So, I said make it 11 or make it nine, OK? Or I'm not showing up, and generally, they did it because we were way ahead from the beginning. But I made a lot of great friends out of that group, and many of them are good friends today, although you wouldn't know it based on the -- they say that was the meanest. That was a pretty mean primary. You got to say. Wasn't that fun? Through there. I like that, through there, depraved actions today, crazy Nancy Pelosi's House Democrats  have branded themselves with an eternal mark of shame, and it really is, it's a disgrace. Democrat lawmakers do not believe you have the right to select your own President. They think that the Washington swamp, which we believe it or not, it ain't easy, because they got so much stacked, including these guys. You know what? These guys are a part of the Democrat Party. They are a part of it.  You might as well call them Democrats. No, the media, look, look, I don't -- you know, it's hard for somebody to know if you're not the subject because how do you know the New York Times is totally dishonest or The Washington Post or ABC is so bad. CBS, so bad. NBC, I made a lot of money for NBC with The Apprentice, right, a lot of mo"
"Well, thank you to Vice President Pence. Thank you, Mike. And hello, Pennsylvania, hello. It's great to be back in this state that gave us the Liberty Bell, Pennsylvania Steel, Hershey Chocolate, I like Hershey Chocolate, the Nittany Lions. You know the Nittany Lions, they're doing pretty well too, and the incredible American patriots, just like you, you are patriots. Thank you very much. Thank you. Under Republican leadership, America is stronger than ever before and we are respected again. Last month you saw it. We smashed expectations with another 260,000 jobs, and unemployment is now more than a 50 year low. We have never seen what's going on with different groups. Unemployment is at a position -- we've never had anything like this. You're so lucky I became your president, no, I'm only kidding. I'm only kidding. I have to say I'm kidding, because the fake news back there will take that -- they'll take that statement and they'll blow it up and they'll say, ""He said they were lucky to have him as president. What a horrible thing to say."" because they're fake. Anyway, anyway, here in Pennsylvania, you had this single best year that you've ever had in the history of our country, not bad. The Pennsylvania unemployment rate has reached an all-time record low. And I hate to tell you this, you know, when I was campaigning three and a half years ago I'd come here, you weren't doing so well, folks, right? You weren't doing so. Well, wages were way down. Unemployment was way up, it wasn't a pretty picture. Just a few months ago, I visited the new Shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County at $6 billion, with a B, $6 billion. It is the largest investment in Pennsylvania history, we're ending decades of failed trade policies that devastated communities all across the state. For generations, American manufacturing was the bedrock of your economy, the bedrock. Remember last administration you'd need a magic wand and never come back. You'd need a back -- We found the magic wand, didn't we? Then came NAFTA, the NAFTA disaster. I call it one of the worst trade deals in the history of any country and the loss of one in three Pennsylvania manufacturing jobs. Your politicians always pledged to fix it, they talk about it for years and years and decades, but they never were able to do it. They came and they went to Washington and they did nothing, but unlike those politicians, I keep my promises, and I love Pennsylvania. You know, I went to school in Pennsylvania, you know that, right? I know it well and I'm thrilled to report that we are on the verge of ending the NAFTA catastrophe once and for all. Congress will soon vote on my new trade deal, the U.S-Mexico-Canada Agreement or USMCA. After years of waiting, many, many years, many, many decades they've been looking for this, and then we get it done and we've been waiting for a long time for Nancy Pelosi to announce USMCA and she did it on the same day that they announced that they are going to impeach the 45th President of the United States, and your favorite president, I think. And the reason they announced it on the same day one hour later, they announced impeachment -- a few guys standing behind her. They announced impeachment and then an hour later she announced that she's going to do USMCA. You know why? It's a huge deal and it plays down the impeachment, because they're embarrassed by the impeachment and our poll numbers have gone through the roof because of her stupid impeachment. And think of it this way also, the silver lining of impeachment and this witch hunt, that's the reason they approved USMCA, so that's OK with me because they approved it and they're very happy to have it. But honestly, it's an incredible deal for our country took too long. It waited in Congress for too long a time incredible deal and replacing the worst NAFTA. We've also just reached a deal with Congress to invest a record, $738 billion more into our great military. When I took over, I will tell you, I became president -- think of it, almost three years ago. By the way, was that the most exciting night ever? You know, I'm just watching these people. That was one of the greatest things in the history of television from a ratings standpoint from an excitement standpoint. What the hell would they do without me and you? They'd be gone. You know, about a month before I ran, I picked up a new york times, it was like a leaflet that you handed out at a grocery store, and now it's thick ,they've got all their reporters covering Trump, Trump, Trump. I can't imagine they won't endorse, because without me winning, you know what happens, they all go down the tubes, they're gone, all of them. Washington Post, New York Times. There's -- very dishonest networks, they are very dishonest, very, very, very dishonest people. No, they are very dishonest people and I have to say this, look, I always have to say this, you have some really great journalists and you have some honest publications, but not too many of them, I have to be honest with you. Right. The legislator -- Well, you know that. Does anybody think the media is honest? Does anybody think they're totally corrupt and dishonest?  All right. The legislation will also officially establish something that's so important to me, because it's where it's at and a lot of people used to smile and now outside of the wall, which were building, you know the wall is going up, it gets one of the biggest   of anything. It's the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, the Space Force, we're opening up the Space Force, because you know what, that's where it's at, and everything is built right here in the United States, that's important. And by the way, we build the greatest weapons, the greatest planes, the greatest ships that great -- we build it in the United States, there's nobody that comes close. We have the greatest military equipment anywhere in the world. Rockets and missiles, no place fills it like us. We have the best in the world and we sell it to allies and they all want to buy from the United States. We've never had a thing like this, we are so high, we are so high. And just a few weeks ago, the United States Special Forces brought the world's No.1 terrorists to justice. Thanks to this strain and courage of our warriors and they are great warriors, the bloodthirsty savage known as al-Baghdadi is now dead.  And he was quickly replaced by his second in command and his second in command is now dead. And we've got our eye on our sights on third also, we know exactly where and when, but you know he's becoming a very unpopular job, not a lot of takers. Yeah. that's what we want. Go back to living a good normal life, because America is winning again. America is winning again like never before and, as I always say, and I've already said it twice tonight, this country is so respected and we were not respected four years ago, we were laughed at. But while we're delivering historic victories for the American people, the radical left Democrats and the failed Washington establishment are trying to erase your votes, nullify the election and overthrow our democracy. Not going to happen, don't worry about it. I wouldn't lose too much sleep over it. And I have to say this about the Republicans, the Republicans, and you have a lot of great ones here tonight, your Congressman, you have a lot of great ones. These congressmen are great. The Republicans have never been so united as they are right now, ever. The House, the Senate we've never been this united because it's all a hoax and they understand it. They also understand poll numbers, but I'm sure that had nothing to do with them, but the impeachment hoax is about overturning your great 2016 vote or in the alternative trying to win the 2020 election. That's not going to happen. Yesterday, the Justice Department's inspector general released a report detailing the outrageous scandalous and unprecedented abuses of power -- Get her out. Get her out. Get her out, get her out. See these guys want to be so politically correct. You get her out. You see that? I'll tell you, law enforcement's so great. That particular guy wanted to be so politically correct, oh, oh. We don't want to be politically correct. I don't know who he was. He didn't do the greatest job, so they tried to frame innocent people in the ludicrous it all started with the Russia witch hunt, right?. Trade. Then the inspector general's shocking report proved that the Obama FBI obtained secret warrants to spy on my campaign based on a phony foreign dossier of debunk smears paid for by crooked Hillary Clinton and the DNC. Right? The FBI failed to disclose the nature of the political hit job to the FISA court. They hit it, they deceived it and they lied. The dossier was written by a discredited foreign agent, who quote desperate that Donald Trump not get elected and was passionate about him. Not being the United States president. What's this? These folks, they spied on our campaign, OK, they spied. Never happened before in the history of our country and we're really wise to it. We're wise to it. The inspector general found that the FBI-spying application contains 17 errors and omissions commonly known as lies and deceit. When the FBI -- and you have great people in the FBI, but not in leadership. You have not good people in leadership, you haven't had. When the FBI uncovered evidence showing that we did absolutely nothing wrong, which was right at the beginning. They hit that exonerating, you know that, they hid it. They hid it, so nobody could see it, so they could keep this hoax going on for two years. They knew right at the beginning that it was all a frame up, a setup, but they hid it so that nobody could see it. So they could keep it going on, thinking they were going to hurt us politically, but now we're stronger politically than we were ever before. And the FBI also sent multiple undercover human spies to surveil and record people associated with our campaign. Look how they've hurt people, they've destroyed the lives of people that were great people, that are still great people. Their lives have been destroyed by scum, OK, by scum. An FBI lawyer, forged, took a f -- email, forged, forged an email used as evidence, an act which is now the subject of a criminal referral, OK. What they did is so unbelievable. Oh, I look forward -- I don't know, I don't know I keep away. I look forward to Bill Durham's report, that's the one I look forward to. And this report was great, by the IG, especially since he was appointed by President Barack Hussein Obama. Considering that fact, it was great because we learned a lot of things that nobody would have found out very easily, although I suspect we would have. We also know from a previous inspector general investigation that many of these same high ranking officials were consumed with anti Trump and anti-Trump people hatred and bias, texting about and insurance policy. Let's have an insurance po -- Remember, remember? Peter Strzok and his lover Lisa Page. Remember? Lisa, I love you so much Lisa, please, Lisa, please. Lisa, I've never loved anyone like you. We won't allow this to happen to our country. ""Lisa, please tell me you love me, Lisa."" I love you. Peter, I love you. I love you like I've never loved anyone. And if for any reason, if for any reason she loses even though she's as stone-cold corrupt person. If for any reason, she loses, Peter, we've got to have an insurance policy, we have to do it, because we're going to go out -- and that's what's been happening for the last two and a half years. OK? it was their phony insurance policy. So FBI lawyer, Lisa Page, so in love that she didn't know what the hell was happening. Texted the head of counterintelligence, Peter Strzok. Likewise, so in love he couldn't see straight. This poor guy -- did I hear he needed a restraining order after this whole thing to keep him away from Lisa? That's what I heard. I don't know if it's true, the fake news will never report it, but it could be true. No, that's what I heard. I don't know, I mean, who could believe a thing like that? No, I heard that Peter Strzok needed a restraining order to keep him away from his once lover. Oh, Lisa, I hope you miss him. Lisa, he'll never be the same. But he said he's not ever going to become President and Strzok looked back. No, no! He won't we'll stop it we'll stop it. Can you believe we found these texts? Can you believe this is FBI agents at a high level? No, no! Well, stop it they're going to stop us from winning an election, and then we have to listen. There was no bias, oh, there was no bias. Think of these people. They write, there was no bias and yet he's saying, ""No, no. Darling, we'll stop it. And then they announce there was no bias. No, you know what we're doing. and it's not easy, and somebody said, ""A regular president -- "" I don't want to use the word normal because that's not a nice normal refer, ""A regular president would have been under a table, numb in the mouth saying: Take me home, Mommy, this is too tough for me."" So true. True, they know. And while it was tough on my family, I have to say, very unfair to my family, very tough on my family, I've a great family, tough, for me, it's my life. I do it, I do it. It's one thing, but very tough, on a family thing like this happens, it's a disgrace. But day after day we're exposing something called that filthy disgusting, horrible swamp and we're cleaning it up. And now, after two and a half years now that the rush of witch hunt is dead, a big fat disgusting fraud that congressional Democrats are pushing the impeachment witch hunt having to do with Ukraine, but that's already failing. You saw their so-called articles of impeachment today? People are saying they're not even a crime. What happened? All of these horrible things, remember, bribery and this and that, where are they? They said these two things are not even a crime. This is the lightest, weakest impeachment here, you know, our country's had, actually many impeachment. You called judges and lots of it, many impeachments, but it was on today, everybody said this is impeachment lite. This is the lightest impeachment in the history of our country by far. It's not even like an impeachment. These people are stone-cold crooked. When a guy like Shifty Schiff, here's a corrupt politician, right? He made up my statement because -- See, I did one thing very good. As soon as I heard about this deal, I released my statement immediately, but he had already made horrible statements and, by the way, the whistleblower, the whistleblower defrauded our country, because the whistleblower wrote something that was totally untrue and we broke up the game. Remember the second whistleblower was coming, right? And then the informer, who is the informer? I know the informer is. The informer -- so the informer obviously gave him false information because they wrote in The Whistleblower report, right? They wrote something totally different from what I said. What I said was perfect, but it screwed up the whole works, because most guys would never do that. They didn't even know, probably that we had it transcribed, professionally transcribed, word-for-word transcribed, so beautiful. Am I lucky I had it transcribed? Think of that. Think of that. So when I said release it -- and I don't like doing that because you're releasing it, it's a conversation with a foreign leader, in this case, a very fine gentleman, president of Ukraine, the new president of Ukraine -- and we call them up and we said, Would it be okay? Our secretary of state made the call, ""Would it be OK?"" And they didn't know what we were talking about, but they said, ""Yeah, it's OK."" And by the way, he his foreign minister, everybody did. You know they said there was no pressure. He didn't. Do anything wrong? There was no pressure put on us that didn't stop anybody, but we released the conversation and that gummed it up. Now, all of a sudden, we never heard from the second whistleblower we never heard about who the informer was the whistleblower who is going to come out. Strong he's, disappeared. Where's the whistleblower he's disappeared, he's gone. Maybe our great congressman can find him. OK but the whistleblower is gone. He flew the coop because he reported incorrectly and the IG who didn't want to look at the conversation. He was so anxious to turn the whistleblower report over to Congress so that Congress could have fun with it ought to be ashamed of himself. But today the House Democrats announced these two flimsy, pathetic, ridiculous articles of impeachment. That house Democrats are walking back from everything they claimed with today's announcement they're now admitting there was no collusion, there was no obstruction of justice and there were no crimes whatsoever. There are no crimes, it says it. There are no crimes, they're impeaching me and there are no crimes. This has to be a first in history, they're impeaching me, you know why, because they want to win an election and that's the only way they can do so. The Democrats have nothing and they've turned the somber process of impeachment, and it was you know to me. Impeachment is a very ugly word. It's a word I associate with some very bad times in our country. The good news is we're having the best times in history in our country, OK? But the word impeachment to me is a very, very ugly word. It's a dark ugly word, but -- but I have to tell you as bad it is, it meant something. When you had serious high crimes and misdemeanors when you had serious high crimes and misdemeanors, when you have serious crimes, it's impeachment. hat would happen every 50 years, every 40 years every hundred years. This was a big deal. They make it so like, let's do it every every six months, they've cheapened the process, they've cheapened the process. These people are so bad. The radical left Democrats. And I actually think that Pelosi, who, by the way, by the way, by the way, she has totally lost control. She has totally -- it's being run now by this crazy AOC, plus three AOC plus three. Now it's being run by other people, the far left has just grab that party, it is so sad to see. And she knew what would happen. I didn't, because I didn't figure the polls would go through the roof. They went out today in Michigan, in Wisconsin in a place called Pennsylvania. No, no. The polls are through the roof. They're called swing states very important states. We won Pennsylvania the last time we're going to win it again, but even bigger. Our polls have gone over the last month, they've gone through the roof. You look at it, take a look at it, it came out today, the firehouse polled, firehouse poll. It's an important poll. It was always good and never looked at it today. I like it a lot we're up through -- Nobody could even believe it. So what Pelosi did it as I said, they do the impeachment then right away, let's do USMCA right on top of it, you'd think she'd wait like a day. She wanted to smother the impeachment crap and that's probably what she did at least to an extent. But any Democrat that votes for this sham will be voting to sacrifice their house majority, their dignity and their career, OK? And some of these partisan lunatics have already said that if they fail this time, think of this, how about low-IQ Maxine Waters? How about Green? How about Green? With Green -- How about green, where he said, ""We have to impeach him, because if we don't impeach him we're not going to win the election."" This is what this is. What we're dealing with. You know we're dealing with some very bad people, we're dealing with people that don't respect you, and by the way, you know they talk about the elite, you're the elite, they're not the elite, you're the elite. You got better education, you got better -- You got better everything, you're the elite. It always bothers me, they said, ""The elite."" This is the elite. Look at these people, how beautiful. This is the elite. You know the elite? You look at those jobs reports, where the best in history, unemployment for African-Americans, best in history, unemployment, Hispanic-Americans, best in history, unemployment, Asian-Americans, you're the elite, you're the elite. But they said they'll do it again, because this has been a total bust. They'll do it again, and by the way, the Senate's been so professional, so good, so strong, so solid. Just like these gentlemen in the house so solid. So we have to vote these crazy people, the hell out of office, and in 2020 I'm going to work like hell that we take over the house. We have to take over the house. We have to. Right? Got to take over the House, Mike. So here are the facts that Shifty Schiff -- Is that guy the worst? He comes up to a microphone. Now he comes up to a microphone like two and a half years ago. ""Oh, I have absolute proof that the president of the United States conspired with Russia."" Russia? What the hell do I have to do with Russia? By the way, Russia wishes that Hillary Clinton won. They wish. We are now No. 1 in the world in energy, Russia's No. 3. Were beating out Russia and Saudi Arabia. You'd have windmills all over the place. If you had crooked Hillary, they'd be knocking out those birds left and right. Those windmills, wah wah, wah. ""Darling, I want to watch television tonight and there's no damn wind. What do I do?"" I want to watch the election results, darling, there's no wind, the damn wind just isn't blowing like it used to because of global warming, I think. I think it's global warming. Global warming, no more wind, no more life. The oceans are going to rise. One eighth of an inch within the next 250 years we're going to be wiped out. Look, I want clean air. I want clean water, crystal clean. I want -- and that's what we have at a record level. Our air and our water are cleaner now than it's ever been, OK, with all that we're doing. And we haven't closed up all of our industry, we haven't closed up our businesses and lost all those jobs and right now we're by far the largest economy in the world. And if you remember, you could look, if you go back five, six, seven years in 2019, they say China was going to catch us as the world's largest economy. Guess what? They're way behind, they're way behind, because over the last three years -- you see the stock market set 131 records from the day. Think of that, and that means jobs. That means 401(k)s I have so many people that come up to me, ""Thank you, sir. My wife was so in love with me, because I went up 79% in the 401(k). She thinks I'm a genius. She always thought I was a total stiff, a dumb, stupid dope. Now she thinks I'm a financial genius, sir. And all I did was buy some stock. I have stock in a 401(k), and you made me into a genius or she loves me so much more than she ever did."" Shows you the power of money, right? Ain't that terrible? But I have so many people, 401(k)s are through the roof. Your jobs are through the roof. We have the lowest unemployment rate and now, more importantly, than anything, wages are up for the first time in many, many years, decades, decades. You remember, four years ago I was here, and I told people, I said, ""You know 20 years ago, people made more money than they made four years ago, not now, not anymore, because people now cannot only make a lot more money. If they don't like their job, they go out and they get a different job and they get more money and ultimately they did find one that they love. You have so many opportunities right now, wages are up, jobs are up, and today we set a new record. Almost 160 million people are working, we've never come close to that number. That's a hell of a number. But just quickly here are the facts on Shifty Schiff, dishonest guy makes up my statements. He said, ""The president of Ukraine repeatedly declared that there was no pressure, but he didn't want to say that we said, say it, say it. You crooked bastard, say it."" but he doesn't want to say it. We said, ""Say it."" Nah, I'd like to force him to say it. He'll walk up to the mic, ""Ladies and gentlemen -- "" Guy's a total corrupt guy. Listen, just to finish off, a man who I really -- I don't know him, but I respect him because the Ukrainian foreign minister -- and he said it so strongly, ""I have never seen a direct link between investigations and security assistance."" He just said that. The Democrats, who are corrupt, refuse to say that. And that's ultimately, the only one that matters the leaders of Ukraine because they're the ones that know of this pressure, not some crooked ambassador, that's a deep state or that's a Bushie or that's a Clintonite or that's a Barack Obama ambassador, OK. The ones that matter are the leadership of the country that we're talking about. They refuse to say it because they're dishonest people there's only one way to stop the rabid, partisan Democrats, Pennsylvania voters must show up in 2020. So we can take back the House, hold the Senate and keep the White House. It's the only way, only way. Ok, so I'm going to ask these people to come up on this stage because we have warriors with us tonight. We love warriors like the guys that killed al-Baghdadi. You know, how much press -- you know how much press I got? I don't care about press, but Conan the dog got more than I did, and that's OK. Conan was almost electrocuted, he deserves it. They gave me about a day and that's OK, because the people understand, we made a great decision. I remember this, al-Baghdadi was the founder of ISIS. Al-Baghdadi was a vicious ruthless person. Al-Baghdadi created a caliphate bigger than the state of Ohio, think of that, that's a big caliphate and we now have taken 100% of the caliphate and we have thousands and thousands of ISIS prisoners and with Obama you did nothing, you did nothing but get your ass kicked. True. All right. We're joined tonight by many of the terrific warriors that have helped me so much in so many ways, they fight for us. They really are incredible and they come right from the state of Pennsylvania. Had you ever notice where Biden keeps saying he's in the wrong state like, if he's in Ohio, ""it's great to be in Iowa tonight. if he's in Pennsylvania, ""It's wonderful to be in the state of Delaware."" What is wrong with this guy? What's wrong with him? There's something wrong, OK, there's something wrong. No. He he keeps -- how many times can you do that so far? It could happen because you know I was doing six and seven a day that last month, that last beautiful month that I loved, I was doing six. I left these guys alone. I didn't want to do interviews, they are a waste of time. We just had these big, beautiful rallies. I was doing -- And you know? If you start getting a little, you know, I went to Michigan then I went to Wisconsin. Then I went -- I'm saying, you know, like what the hell is going on, these crowds are incredible and we had the biggest crowds. By the way, to this day, there has never been -- and they'll always correct me, in the history of politics in the history of our country. There has never been anybody that drew crowds like we draw and I don't have a guitar. I have no guitar, but this has never happened. I mean, if you took ronald Reagan and we all like Ronald Reagan. I liked him. I thought he was a great guy, but if he came to Pennsylvania for a rally, you know, if he had a thousand people in a ballroom or something. You know I mean we're getting crowds, 25, 30,000 people and then there'll be 20,000 thousand people outside. You know we set up screens outside and if anybody would like to stand in the rain watching and do you people out there, I'm sorry. It's pretty rough, but no there's never been anything like it. One instruction: Get me the biggest arena you can get. We -- we don't have empty seats. I mean, look at this. How many -- How many seats is this, 11,000? How much? 10,500 it's packed. It's beyond that. And don't forget, look at the floor and then you go out --No and then you go out and you look outside and you have thousands and thousands because there's a spirit for what we're doing we're fixing our country, we're healing our country, we're making America great again. So I want to ask a couple of our great warriors to come forward. Representative Glenn Thompson. Come up here, buddy. Come up here. A man has been a friend of mine for a long time, Mike Kelly, Don't get into a fight with Mike. Come up now. A wonderful man who represents this area, Scott Perry. Representative Lloyd Smucker. Lloyd. A guy who is always there for us, John Joyce and two people that you all know very well in this state. They bring home the bacon, Dan Meuser and Fred Keller. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. I want to also bring back our Pennsylvania party chairman and I know his grandfather, I shouldn't say that to you, he was a tremendous man, Dan Tabas, but I'm going to introduce somebody that Dan always said had tremendous talent. Little did I know that he'd be working with us and he's really working well he's smart, he's tough, Lawrence Tabas. Come on up, Lawrence. Also with us tonight. Pennsylvania Trump victory chairwoman, Bernie. You know this, right? You know this person -- Comfort. You know, you know who that is? You know that is, everybody knows who that is. National Committeeman Bob Asher, RNC Co-Chairman Tommy Hicks, who's been incredible, and my friend David Urban, David. So I just want to thank this an amazing group of people and with their help and the help of everyone here, we are going to set records like we've never set before. You know, I used to say, and I sort of still have to say 2016, I don't know of anything like that can ever happen, but I think we're much better. You know all of the things I said, whether to cut taxes, we're going to cut regulations, we're going to take care of our vets. Look what we did for our vets with choice, right? Look what we did, look what we did. We now have the ability to fire all of the bad people that are in the V.A., right? Fired over a thousand people that were disrespecting our vets. They wouldn't have done it in primetime, I can tell you that. But what we've done for our vets. What we've done in rebuilding our military. What we've done in so many ways and we, unlike the Democrats, will protect your Second Amendment. OK? So we've done a job and we're proud of it, and we have tremendous people and let's give them a hand, and thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, everybody, thank you. Thank you folks. Vote for these people, even if you don't like 'em vote for 'em. Oh, that's a beautiful new hat. Look at the hat that guy's got up. How's that working out? Is that hat good? I love that hat. Look at this guy. That says, Keep America Great. Should we do the poll? Should we do a poll? They're ready? So we have the greatest phrase in the history of politics: Make America Great Again. And we wait and we have our new phrase because we've made America great, I told you, the stock market, we've rebuilt our military we've cut your Taxes like at a level that nobody could even think possible. You look at your median -- Take a look at your median income. Take a look at what's happened, the numbers, median household income. Take a look at your numbers. With President Bush it went up $400 in eight years. With President Obama, it went up $975 dollars in eight years. With President Trump, It went up 5,000, but whoa, whoa, whoa, in less than three years. That's a big thing. Wait. And then when you add energy savings and you add tax savings, you have almost a $10,000 gain in and that's one of the very big reasons why our -- I think that in regulations, but that's one of the very big reasons why our economy is doing so because they talk about our consumer. it's loaded with money. Thank you very much, Mr president, I appreciate it. But with the help of everyone here we have now the hottest economy. You know what I mean: dictators and presidents and kings and queens and prime ministers. They all come into that beautiful oval office, so beautiful, right? So respected and the first thing they almost always say, ""Sir, congratulations on your economy. We're trying to do the same thing."" I said, ""You won't be able to do it."" They won't be able to. Let him give it a shot, but they all say, ""Congratulations on the great job you've done with the economy."" but we've all done the great job. Not me, we've all done. I've been your spokesman and I've done a good job as spokesman, but they all say that, but we've done a good job in many ways. You know all of the promises that I made. I'm the only politician in history that I've actually kept more promises than I made. Th"
"Wow. Wow. Man, this is a big place.  Thank you very much and thank you to Vice President Mike Pence, who's doing a fantastic job, and thank you to the great state of Florida. Thank you. Thank you. So, less than one year from now, I will join voters across the Sunshine State, my home. As we head to the polls and together, we will win back the House, we will hold the Senate, and we will keep that beautiful, beautiful White House. We will keep it. We will keep it. You know he just had another stock rocket. You saw that, right? The stock market just hit another all-time in history high, meaning, 401(k)s and jobs. Everybody's getting rich, and I'm working my ass off, that I think, I do. Before you leave the arena, make sure that you register to vote. We can't take any chances. We're doing great in Florida. As you know, you have a great Governor, we're very happy with Ron. He's doing a fantastic job, but make sure you register to vote. As we gather together for Thanksgiving, you know, some people want to change the name Thanksgiving. They don't want to use the term Thanksgiving, and that was true also with Christmas, but now, everybody's using Christmas again, remember, I said that? But now, we're going to have to do a little work on Thanksgiving, people have different ideas why it shouldn't be called Thanksgiving. But everybody in this room I know, loves the name Thanksgiving and we're not changing it. But Americans have so much to be thankful for, the economy is booming, wages are rising, crime is falling, poverty is plummeting, confidence is soaring, and America is stronger than ever before. It's true. We've created 6.7 million new jobs, including 600,000 jobs right here in the great State of Florida. We're protecting American workers, taking care of our amazing veterans, by the way, you know, the veterans for years and years and years, I was like you, I was a civilian. I love my life, my life was so much simpler. It was so nice and soft and easy. You build a building and you have fun, but I always see, you turn on the news, you read in the paper about our veterans being mistreated. They were doing such a poor job. You don't hear that anymore do you?  You don't hear it anymore. Our veterans, for the first time, are taken care of to a level that has never happened in our country before, and maybe, most importantly, right now is the world the way it is. We are rebuilding the awesome power of the United States, military, $2.5 trillion and everything is made right here in the USA. That's good. We make the greatest equipment in the world. And a few weeks ago, U.S Special Forces brought the world's No. 1 terrorist to justice. The bloodthirsty savage known as Al Baghdadi is dead, finally. And just this week, I stuck up for three great warriors against the deep state, and you know what I'm talking about. I had so many people say, sir, I don't think you should do that. People have to be able to fight. These are great warriors. They can't think, gee, whiz, if I make a mistake, do I go for it? You do that. I mean, you know, if they were doing -- they wanted to put him in jail for 25 years. One young man was in jail for seven years, he had 16 more years to go, and I want to tell you when you look at what they did to that man, you would have been very proud at what we ended up doing. He came out. He hugged his parents, it was a beautiful, a beautiful thing. We gave him a party because we're going to take care of our warriors, and I will always stick up for our great fighters. People can sit there and air-conditioned offices and complain, but you know what, it doesn't matter to me whatsoever, they're out of that field and they're doing a job for us like nobody else anywhere in the world can do. And the fact is, America is winning again and America is respected again.  But while we're creating jobs and killing terrorists and taking care of our borders, really setting records now, you see what's going on, and the wall is happening. It's getting built rapidly and that's a real wall. The radical-left Democrats are trying to rip our nation apart.  First, it was the Russia hoax, total hoax. It was a failed overthrow attempt and the biggest fraud in the history of our country, and then, you look at the Mueller deal. Do you remember that mess? They had nothing, two years, they spent $45 million, and the real cost is many times that number. And now, the same maniacs are pushing the deranged impeachment. And think of this, impeachment, impeachment  a witch hunt the same as before, and they're pushing that impeachment, witch hunt, and a lot of bad things happening to them because do you see what's happening in the polls? Everybody said that's really bullshit, true. Everybody. Now, the fake news back there, they're going to say, the President came, they will never talk about the crowd. You know, one of the Democrats yesterday had a rally, two people showed up, two people. They give us no credit. If somebody has a rally like a thousand people, they'll say so-and-so had a rally, it was packed, they had a thousand people. If we have a rally with 50,000 people, they don't talk about it, and I don't know much about this stadium. But I can tell you, it's big and you go outside, and there are a lot of people outside that can't get in, right? But the lies of the Democrats are being exposed, their schemes are unraveling, their crimes, and that's what it is, crimes. Did you ever hear this guy corrupt politician Schiff? He made up my statement to the Ukrainian President. He made it up. These are crooked people, but their crimes are being revealed and their sinister plans are failing at a level that nobody thought, even me, possible. The radical Democrats are trying to overturn the last election because they know that they cannot win the next election. It's very simple. You know when I started this.  You know when I started this. I said we're going to do this, we're going to do that, we're going to do -- it didn't mean anything. You know it's just like another guy trying to get elected. You know they're all trying so hard, but it's tough. It's not easy. It's not. You know when a guy goes out and they want to get people and nobody shows, it's true. It's not easy, but when I started this, no, no they haven't. That's normal. This is not normal. Do you think this is normal? Can I be honest in front of those fakers back there, some of the most corrupt people in the world?  I will tell you in front of these guys, and they're fake, and they're corrupt, but I will tell you this in front of the media. Let me just say, this has never happened before. We go out, we never have an empty seat, and all I say is, let's go to Florida. Just get me the biggest arena. It doesn't matter where. Let's go to Wisconsin. Let's go to Michigan. Let's go to Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, let's go anywhere, Michigan, Michigan. And all I say is, it doesn't matter, just get me the biggest arena, and we get these massive arenas like this one, and they're packed. And we put big screens outside so people can see, and it happens because there's something happening in our country, like has never ever been seen before. In the twisted world view of the Washington, very sick Democrats, it was totally fine when crooked Hillary Clinton ran her outrageous pay-for-play schemes out of the State Department.  And then, she deleted 33,000 e-mails after receiving a subpoena from Congress that was standard play. But when I have a perfect phone call, I use that -- it's a perfect call. There was a woman today being interviewed, they were talking to women who voted for Trump and they were trying to find -- no, no, no, they were trying to find. It's one of those crazy networks. You know the ones I'm talking about and they couldn't find the right guy. So, they got these 10 women and they were all for Trump, but they wanted to say, I voted for Trump or I won't do it again. They all said, they said, so, who's voting for Trump? Ten hands, right? No, no, it's incredible what's happening, it's incredible. They actually said -- and I shouldn't say this because they'll bring it up, but we have the greatest base in the history of politics. That's my opinion, OK. You're the smartest. They don't like to say that about you. Hey, I went to great colleges. You went to great schools or colleges, you people are successful as hell. They like to try and demean, always best, well, this and that. Let me tell you, we're winning, you're smarter, you're better-looking, you're sharper, and they call themselves elite. But if they're elite, then, we're the super-elite. It's true. It's true. They talk about these people that are elite, that you know, that are running. I mean, have you been watching these debates? What's elite about that? What's the elite, there's nothing elite, but we're doing great. We're going to have a tremendous victory, but when I have a perfect call, think of it, 33 what they get away with, and don't forget, I came to Washington having been there for a very, very few times in my life. So I say, look at this, and I'm riding down Pennsylvania Avenue, and I pass a hotel that I built, beautiful, and I said to the First Lady, who is doing a fantastic job. True, true. So, I think I might have been in Washington 17 times in my life, and I'm riding down, and I look at the First Lady and I say, Melania, do you believe it? I'm President, look, can you believe it? And I never saw so many motorcycles and I never saw so many police cars and we're going so fast in the opposite direction. It's not supposed to go that way, and I say this is cool. We can get used to this. This is OK. But I was thinking to myself when I said that. I said look, so, I get elected and I beat the Bush dynasty, OK. I get elected and I beat, and again, with no experience, I didn't have experience. I have tremendous world experience, but I didn't have political experience. So, I get elected and we beat the Clinton dynasty, right? And then, we beat Barack-Hussein Obama, and whatever the hell dynasty that is. So, we have 24 years of people putting people into office. So, we have tens of thousands of people and some are very nice, but I get stuck with a lot of people that I don't want, tens of thousands. And I'll tell you we're getting it right. We have a great Cabinet, we're doing things that no President has ever done before, and you've got to be very, very happy. You've got to be very, very happy because we have done more already. And hopefully, we have -- I'll say this to drive them crazy. Hopefully, we have at least another five years to go, at least. Because you know they think, you know, he's not leaving, he's not. Now, we have five years and we're going to make it a great five years. But you know what? We have done really, we have done much more than I promised. If you look at the tax cuts, if you look at the military, if you look at the VA, if you look at, Right to Try, Right to Try, how good is that? Right to Try, things that for years and years and years they've been trying to get passed. But when I have a perfect phone call with all of the horrible things that they've done with the President of Ukraine, they tried to claim that it's an impeachable offense, and one of the women said this morning, excuse me: I'm voting for Trump. I happen to read the transcript of his phone call and he did absolutely nothing wrong, and I'm voting -- can you imagine? They take this perfect call and they want to impeach your President. And you know what, here's the good news. We have more support in the Republican Party, Kevin McCarthy, Meadows, I'm going to introduce a couple of them. Jim Jordan, great champion wrestler. We've got a couple of them here. I'm going to save that. Steve Scalise who's been incredible, so many. Elise, how's Elise doing, right, new Star? No, no, it's incredible. Devin Nunes, how good is he, Devin? And so many more, I don't want to get into it, but I tell you what, a lot of stars are being made, and I was just told backstage, our poll numbers are through the roof because people don't like watching this scam. They don't like watching it. They don't like watching it. They've got a sick puppy, shifty Schiff.  And they don't like seeing what's happening and a lot of Democrats are saying, one of them was in today in Detroit. I believe and she's like a D, Democrat 30, that means, in other words, that's not one that we're going to work too hard to get, but you never know what happens, right? And she came out and said, essentially, hey, I'm not here to impeach the President. But what they're really saying is they don't like the position they're in and they're going to like it less and less, and we're going to take it right up to November 3rd, 2020. We're going to take back the House. We're going to take it back. So, the President of Ukraine declared that there was no pressure put on me. Now, he's the only one that matters. There was no pressure. He said it all different ways, there was no pressure. They don't even know what they're talking about. It's a scam. It's a hoax. The Ukrainian foreign minister stated, and I quote, Ambassador Sondland did not tell us, and certainly, did not tell me about a connection between the assistance and the investigation, he's never told them. I have never had a direct link between investigations and security assistance. OK, what that means, do you know what it means? It means we did zero, we did nothing wrong nothing. We did nothing wrong. A great Senator from Wisconsin, Ron Johnson, a supporter of us from day one, he's a great guy of Ukraine. He said who met privately with -- and he met with President Zelensky, and he said at no time during that meeting was there any mention by the President. You know what I'm talking about, right? At no time was there any mention or anything that we're feeling, that they were feeling any pressure in return for military aid? It's the craziest thing. They took this -- look, here's what happened. They were devastated by what happened with this Mueller witch hunt deal, and then, Mueller testified. How did he do what he testified to? How did he do? It wasn't too good but they were devastated. They say this is a disaster. Now, they say, give us anything, we'll impeach him. Let him go to the refrigerator and pick an orange. We'll go to -- from Florida, yeah, pick an orange from Florida. We're going to impeach him. We'll impeach him, but during the time period and issue, the U.S. government officials held many meetings with Ukraine and never once never did Ukraine or the officials say anything that was wrong. Then, all of a sudden, I'm hearing about a phone call, and then fortunately, they had transcribers. Hey, how about if I didn't -- with these lowlifes to talk, how about, if we didn't have a transcript. So, all I'm saying, I don't want to go into it too long, but all I'm saying is that, it's a terrible hoax. Last week, Sondland testified that I told him quote: what do you want from Ukraine? I said I want nothing. There's a quote. I want no quid pro quo. I want nothing, tell President Zelensky to do the right thing, to do what he ran on, that's what he said, OK? And everybody knows, everybody knows. A lot of people heard shifty make up a story where he actually made up what I said, but these are the facts. The case closed, game over, turn off the television. As soon as he said that, it was like, turn off the television. So, we're going to keep going. I've had Republicans come up to me, sir. Can we keep this sucker going a little bit longer? We've never seen anything like it with the polls. I said, let's get it over with, but you know what, we're stuck with dealing with very very sick and corrupt people. That's what it is. The failed Washington establishment is trying to stop me because I'm fighting for you and because we're winning. It's very simple. They're attacking me because I'm exposing a rigged system that enriched itself at your expense, and I'm restoring government of, by, and for the people. And if you want to see what corruption looks like, then take a look, no further than slow, sleepy Joe. I don't know what's going on with Joe. When sleepy Joe was in charge of Ukraine policy, his son, I call him where is he? Where's Hunter? Where is he? What happened to Hunter? Where's Hunter? His son received millions and millions of dollars from a Ukrainian energy company without a great -- you know the reputation of that company, despite knowing absolutely nothing about energy. What business are you in, sir? The mailbox business? Oh, bail bond, well, that's -- do you know Hunter Biden? Do you know sleepy Joe? Bail bond, whoa. So, did you ever work on energy before? You know more about energy, he said, no, then, Hunter, you know much more. Despite being thrown out of the Navy for lots of different reasons, we won't even go into it. He made no money, zero, nothing, and then, all of a sudden, his father becomes Vice President, and he's making millions and millions, and then, he goes to China, where, by the way, we're getting very close to a very good deal, and if we don't make it that's fine, but we're getting very close. Obviously, Hunter is dealing with different people that I'm dealing with in China because after 10 minutes, he walked away for his fund with $1.5 billion. I will tell you, I said to everybody, these are different people that I'm dealing with in China. They got much softer. That was what his father was Vice President, and now, they're finding other countries. Likewise, I will tell you something, the fake news doesn't want to bring it up. They protect everybody.  The Democrats, the Democrats on stage don't bring it up. Do you notice? They never bring it up, but if you should make it, it'll be brought up for about 75% of the time that we're debating because nobody ever got away with a scam like that, all right, nobody. But day after day, we're exposing the depravity, dishonesty, and sickness of the corrupt Washington Establishment, and let me tell you, they're rough, they're dirty players. They come at you from every side, they're coming at me from New York, they're coming at me from New Jersey, they're coming at me from every Democratic State like nobody's ever seen. Rush Limbaugh said, and Sean Hannity that he doesn't know a man or woman in the world that could take the crap that President Trump is taking. And I understand it. I understand it. And at the same time, be a great President because nobody in the first three years of a Presidency has done what we've done. Nobody -- nobody, that's very important. But with your help, we're going to complete the mission and we are draining the swamp indeed. On Election Day 2020, the crazy Democrats are going down in a landslide and that landslide is going to start right here in the great State of Florida.  Thank you. So, here's something that you just read about, right? We like these updated stories, don't we? Don't we like these -- something that happened a few days ago. We talk, who else does this? Most people they took and they read, and you know, everybody falls asleep, nobody comes. I say, darling, how was he? About somebody else, hopefully, it was so boring. It was so boring, and you know, I always say being Presidential is so easy, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. But it's so easy. Doing what I do is tough. I said I like it. If you don't like it, if you don't love what you're doing, forget it. It's not going to work. I do, I do like it, and what we're doing together, has never been done before, never been done. But I like telling these life stories that happened a little while ago. They don't have to put them in speeches that you read stuff and people fall asleep. But on Saturday, you saw what happened. The White House physician called me and said, sir, you're home today. If I want it, meaning me, I could do some of the physical. You know in January we go for the physical. I never took physicals before, now, every year of us to take a physical, but it's important. It's good, right? It's good. Because January is a very busy month for you, sir. I said you're right. So, what do you want to do? I said OK, let's go. So, we went to Walter Reed Medical Center, fantastic place, incredible Doctors, and I was there for just a short while. I visited a family of a soldier being operated on, an incredible family, his son was in serious condition, and I stayed with him for a little while. I toured the hospital. I took a little part of my physical, so, I don't have to take it in January, very simple, and I got back into the motorcade, the car. We have many, many cars and trucks and ambulances, unfortunately, and lots of different things, right. We also have like a bus or whatever the hell carries these crazy people. And the press follows me wherever I go, unfortunately. You know in the old days, I could sneak out and go someplace. Today, these people are crazy, so, so, the press is -- everybody's there. We start, it's like a beautiful thing. If you like lots of cars and lots of action, but the press is following me. So, I hadn't even gotten back to the White House and that stupid, corrupt, horrible CNN,  whose ratings are terrible, by the way, and others, and others, whose ratings, by the way, CNN ratings are terrible. Oops, look, their light just went off. The light just went off. I shouldn't do it, I shouldn't do it because we lose a small audience when that happens. No, but they'll report it. So, here I am.  So, I'm there for a very routine, little, simple physical, and by the way, if there's something wrong, I got to tell you. I want to tell you about it because it's very big stuff, but I was there just to save a little time in January. I feel great. Hey, let me tell you, If I didn't feel great, I wouldn't be ranting and raving to 21,000 - 22,000 people with lots of people outside. I can tell you. So, I get back in, and now, it's a short drive. We arrive at the White House and I heard that they said, it came out in the media, including some of the very, very dishonest people that are here today. Look at that. It's like the Academy Awards used to be, used to be. You know the Academy Awards was big until they started hitting us. Now, they've gone down the tubes, but it's like the Academy Awards used to be. Look at all those lights back there. But I'm getting out of the car and somebody said, sir, you OK? I said, yeah. What's that all about. I go a few feet further and another security. Sir, sir, are you OK, sir? I said, yeah, I'm fine. What's -- what's going on? Nobody's ever asked me that. You know normally, I work. These are the greatest people, the military, the Secret Service they're the greatest, but they don't ever say, sir, are you OK? And I could see he was like troubled. He likes me you know and I walk another few feet, sir. I hope you're, OK, sir. I say what the hell is going on? And then, they said I had a massive heart attack, nothing to joke about. But they said I had a massive heart attack. I had a heart attack and it wasn't true. They knew it wasn't true. They were with me. If you've had a heart attack, you don't leave the hospital shortly after you get that. You stay in the hospital for a little while, like, about six weeks maybe. So, we had the people call, doesn't mean anything, because they're totally corrupt people, and they said, it's untrue. So, they brought it down from a massive, unbelievable heart attack. You know, it's very dangerous for them to do because the world, believe it or not, the rest of the world and the leaders, like and respect your President. We don't want to hear this and I like them. It's very sad. So then, instead, they brought it down a notch. They said you went into the hospital and it's true. I didn't wear a tie. Why would I wear a tie? If the first thing they do is they take off your shirt, sir, and show us that gorgeous chest? Shall -- we want to see. We've never seen a chest quite like it. No, but seriously, why would I put -- I mean, I put the tie on, and then, we're there in 20 minutes, I take it off for the physical. But they said, he wasn't wearing a tie, which is pretty unusual for me, honestly. I should have worn a tie. Maybe, it's not their fault. You never apologize but they said he wasn't wearing a tie. This is a sign of a massive heart attack. But we called up and our people did a good job screaming he's fine. There was nothing happened, they didn't believe it. They brought it down to tremendous chest pains. He had chest pains. One of them said, there were tremendous, oh, tremendous. The only one that didn't know it was me, I'm the only one. And then, they said like a little bit later, he's staying over in the hospital, but they knew I came back. They were with me. They were with me. They saw me get into the car. They saw us leave and they said I stayed at the great Walter Reed Hospital. So, we said, no, the chest pains aren't true, but they kept on reporting it. We couldn't get them to stop because they're corrupt, crooked, and we don't have freedom of the press. We have a very dishonest press. We have a very dishonest press. So then, on Monday, I flew to Texas, the great State of Texas, and I opened up an Apple computer plant. They make the new beautiful Mac, whatever. And I met with Tim Cook and did lots of work, and it's a long flight and I got back many hours later. It was late night, and I said you know what, I just set a record because yesterday or the day before, they said I had a massive heart attack, and now, a day later, I'm traveling to Texas to open up this big plant. I don't know not too many people have ever done that one before. So, I just want to tell you that so much, as an example, we had a great two weeks watching these crooked politicians, not giving us due process, not giving us lawyers, not giving us the right to speak, and destroying their witnesses, it fell apart. Those were their witnesses. We weren't allowed any rights. We had for the first time in the history of our country, we had virtually, no rights or due process, and despite that, we won. But if you read the crooked New York Times, if you read The Washington Post, which is just a horrible paper, you know, we don't have it anywhere in D.C., anymore. We don't deliver it, we don't give it, we used to buy it, we don't do it. And in fact, I ended it in the nation because I want them to get correct news, not fake news, but they're bad people. So, what happens? What happens? Is we go out, we win for the people, we keep winning. We won these last two weeks so solidly, but if you pick up the New York Times, if you pick up this crazy Washington Post, you would have no idea we won. But you know what, the people knew it, and that's why and that's why they don't want to have this. They don't want to see it go on. It probably will because the people are nuts and nuts, and I really think probably, it's a good thing for us as a party because I think, it's going to just walk us right through that election, which is going to take place already in less than a year. So, we're thrilled to be joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders and I want to just have run up on the stage, but they're stars and their warriors, just like those three guys we helped out. These are warriors in a different way, but they're up there and they're fighting for your President and they're fighting for your country and they love the State of Florida, Congressman, Matt Gaetz, come on up, Matt. A man I just watched last night on television, he was fantastic. Congressman, Michael Waltz. Come on up, Michael. Get up here. Billy Posey, a great guy and a great fighter. Billy, come up. Come up, Billy. Gus Bilirakis, Gus, come on up, Gus. And a man who is an incredibly brave guy, a friend of mine. Somebody that's done a fantastic job, loves his State, Brian Mast, Brian. I want to introduce Attorney General and a friend of all of ours, who ran a great campaign, won easily, despite a lot of crooked stuff going on with those voting machines, a lot of bad stuff going on with those voting machines, Attorney General, Ashley Moody. Come on up, Ashley. And by the way, a friend of mine, a great woman, a great person, former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, come up, Pam. Come up, Pam. Florida's CFO Jimmy Patronis. Jimmy, come up, and Lieutenant Governor and somebody that really has become a star in this State, Jeanette Nunez. Come up, Jeanette. Incredible people. And somebody that's one of the most popular Governors anywhere in the country, and -- true, true. He better not be more popular in Florida than me, I'm never going to go. But here's a quick story, here's a quick. True. But here's a quick story. I shouldn't say it because I wouldn't want to say this but what the hell, right? So, you know Ron's been a friend of mine for a long time. He was a Congressman. He did an incredible job, always protecting me from the Russia witch hunt and beyond, with these guys with Matt and everybody. He'd be up an incredible race, and then, he ran against the Democrat, who is supposed to be unbeatable. He got beaten badly, and now, this is one of the most popular Governors. But I always thought Ron was a little bit heavy, and then, one day I'm with him and I pat him on the shoulder, and I go whoa, that's strong. That's a lot of muscle there. My hand didn't sink in, like it does with a lot of people, and then, I see him without a shirt one day and this guy is strong and he's not fat. That's all power. That's all muscle. I want to tell you that, and I said Ron, you're one of the few I say it to don't walk around with a jacket all the time take it off. People are going to see the real Ron, but he's a great guy. He's a tough guy. He's a brilliant guy and he's our Governor and I'm very proud. When we got involved with Ron, a lot of people were saying, do you think he can make it. I said he's going to make it because he's a champ, he's a winner, and I want you to say a few words, Ron. Thank you. Thank you. Great to be with you all, and let me just say, Mr. President, given your change of registration, welcome home to Florida. And why not come to Florida, we have one of the lowest tax burdens of any state in the country. You see some of these states that are going bankrupt. We have over a $5 billion in reserves with our budget, and I see some of these cities and states with lawlessness. When I came into office, I was proud to sign a bill banning sanctuary cities in the state of Florida. With your support, we are in the process of eliminating Common Core, and as soon as I came into office, I was able to replace on our state supreme court three Liberal justices with three conservative constitutional, and I've got to thank the President for his support of Florida. I mean, I'm kind of excited that he's here about -- I tell you. I'm really excited to have Melania as a Florida resident. I think in Florida, we're lucky to have my beautiful wife-to-be, I think, the best First Lady of all the 50 states, I'm just saying, but now, not only do we have Casey, who does a great job, but we also have Melanie as a Florida resident. So, we're really lucky in that regard in Florida, but let me tell you about the President. When we had a hurricane hit in Northwest Florida, a lot of people had forgotten about that. Those folks were really, really in dire straits. I went up to the Oval Office and even though a lot of people told them don't do anything, just let it go. He was right there standing behind the people of Northwest Florida. He has helped rejuvenate that area. He saved Tyndall Air Force base. It's going to come back bigger than ever, very important for our military. When we were trying to get Floridians access to cheaper prescription drugs, we had an avenue to let people buy them in Canada because it's about a third of the price a lot of times, and everyone said, no, you can't do it. You can't do it. I went out and met with the President. He said no, no, no, we're doing it, and so, they're in the process of putting that through right now. President Trump has stood with our communities in South Florida, Cuban-Americans, Venezuelan-Americans, stand for freedom in this hemisphere and stand against a dictatorship in places like Caracas and Havana, and the President has stood, where one of the most military and veteran-friendly states in the country. He has stood by our veterans and he has s"
"Wow. Thank you very much. Hello, Louisiana. Hello, Louisiana. You know, I happened to watch a football game last weekend. That wasn't a bad game. It wasn't a bad game. That wasn't too bad, was it? But I'm thrilled to be back in the beautiful bayou state with thousands of hardworking American citizens who believe in God, family and country. But I'm down for a reason. This Saturday, the eyes of history are looking upon the great people of Louisiana. Saturday, remember Saturday, you've got to vote on Saturday. It's a close one and you're going to have a great Republican Governor. You know that. You're going to have a great Republican Governor. He's going to bring down the car insurance and bring down your taxes. If you want to defend your values, your jobs and your freedom, then you need to replace radical, liberal John Bel Edwards with a true Louisiana patriot, Eddie Rispone. Eddie Rispone, great guy, loves you still. In two days, I really need you, but you really need you to send a message to the corrupt Democrats in Washington. They are corrupt. They are crazy, crazy. They are crazy, but you're not going to let them destroy our country and rob your children of their future. You have to let them know it. So after you come back because duck hunting is early see... They almost got me on that one. They almost got me. Those people in New York almost got me on that one, but after you come back, you can leave real early, then you're going to come back. You have to go and vote and then go to the game and have a lot of fun. But you got to vote on Saturday, got to vote on Saturday, really important. Under Republican leadership, our nation's economy is booming, wages are rising, confidence is soaring, liberty is thriving, and America is stronger than ever before. We are supporting our police and rebuilding our military, including $1 billion to totally revamp the legendary B-52 bombers like those at Barksdale Air Force Base. Barksdale, we like Barksdale, right? We've totally rebuilt our military. We're rebuilding everything. Our country is respected again, respected again. With the awesome strength of the American warrior, we are defeating radical Islamic terrorism and the bloodthirsty savage known as al-Baghdadi is dead. And so important, our rebuilt military, we can say with total confidence, not that we ever want to do this, but our enemies don't stand a chance against the power of the United States military, don't stand a chance. America is winning again like never before, and America is respected again, respected at the highest levels. Every country that comes to see me, they respect our country again, but while we are creating jobs and killing terrorists, the radical left, Democrats, is ripping our country apart. They're trying to overthrow American democracy and erase the votes of tens of millions of Americans. First, there was the Russia hoax. Then it was the Mueller witch hunt. You remember that one. So far, much more than 100 percent because it goes before the election ever took place. We've been going through this from before the election took place, a bunch of bad people, and then one of the single greatest lies ever told by anybody in this government that I think one of the great scandals right from the beginning. All of the things that they've been doing and now the absolutely crazed lunatics, the Democrats, radical left and their media partners standing right back there are pushing the deranged impeachment witch hunt for doing nothing wrong, doing nothing wrong. You know, we did nothing wrong and they're doing nothing. They haven't done a thing since Nancy Pelosi, as speaker, they haven't done a thing, but once again, their lies will be exposed just like the last times. Their schemes are already unraveling. You saw yesterday. How about when they asked these two Never Trumpers, ""What exactly do you think you impeach him for?"" And they stood there, went like, ""What?"" But they're unraveling and their sinister plans will fail. They've already failed as far as I'm concerned. In fact, so as I'm getting out of that beautiful airplane, Air Force One, it is a beautiful plane, this just came out, big story. New remarks from top Ukrainian official damages Democrats impeachment narrative. Just came out. I only read it because they don't like to report stories like this, you know about that. Because we're fighting the Democrats, but much more difficult to fight is the fake news, I'm telling you, and they're a partnership. I call them a partnership made in hell. Here it is: Ukrainian foreign minister said on Thursday, listen to this though, and they won't even want to report it, this stuff because it ends it. It ends it. It's all about that. Ukrainian foreign minister said on Thursday that the United States ambassador did not link financial military assistance to a request for Ukraine to open up an investigation into former vice president and current Democratic... Can you believe? Like we need help to beat sleepy Joe Biden? I don't think so. You know, last election, by the way, I hate to say this, but now I have a lot of experience because experience is important, but talent is more important than experience, right? But I had no experience. Last election, we took down the Bush dynasty, it's okay, with no experience, Bush dynasty. Then we took down the Clinton dynasty. Then we took down the very crooked Obama group. So we took down Bush, Clinton, Obama with no experience, but I had you and we won. So think about that and then think about me, ""Gee, let's get some help from Ukraine in order to beat sleepy Joe Biden."" I don't think so. So just to finish this up, so there was nothing, no leak, no nothing, two presidential candidates, sleepy Joe Biden. I added the word sleepy because this is a serious deal here, and his son, Hunter Biden. Hunter, where's Hunter? What happened to Hunter? I think he made more money than anybody in history for somebody with absolutely no talent or experience. He's number one in the world. OK, the ambassador did not tell us, and certainly did not tell me about a connection between the assistance and the investigation. Never said. In other words, nothing happened. I have never seen a direct relationship between the investigations and security assistance, so they have said now nothing happened, and yet you don't even read this. Now it only came out a little while ago in all fairness. I'll give him a chance. Can you report this tonight and tomorrow please? So if Pelosi were honest, which she's not, and if shifty Schiff, little shifty Schiff, he's got the little 10 inch neck. What size shirts do you need out of him? I wear a size nine, nine. He will not make the LSU football team, that I can tell you, and the neck is gone. Now he's a bad guy. He's a dishonest guy. He's the guy that went up and fabricated a whole story and read what I supposedly said to the new and very good, I think, new Ukrainian president. And Adam Shifty Schiff went up and he made up... Think of it. He made up my statement and it was horrible what he said, and he finished it by saying, ""You don't call me. I'll call you."" I said, ""Where did this come from?"" He's sick. He's sick, but then one thing happened. Here's what happened! You know what happened. I said I better release the real call, so they had transcribers. The call is perfect, and we released it, and that was the beginning of the end for them. They are disgraced. Now, but just as honestly, and honestly, they hurt our country incredibly badly because I don't like releasing calls with other presidents and prime ministers. You don't like to do that. You don't want to do that, but you had to because he totally fabricated... He made up. He made up my conversation. He's a thief. He's a crook and you know what? He's a corrupt politician and frankly, he should be prosecuted. The only problem is he has immunity because he's a congressman and he made the statement in the halls of Congress. He made the statement. He made the statement while in that great, beautiful building, so therefore he has immunity, so he can be crooked as hell. In the meantime, they gave the Republicans who, by the way, have really stuck together. It's a beautiful thing to see. So we don't have rights to lawyers. We don't have rights to anything. We don't have rights to... It's the most incredible thing, but you know what? By them being so ridiculous, people see. We've been taking away... Our due process has been taken away, but here's what we have. We have truth. We have the fact that everything is absolutely perfect, perfect and based on the poll numbers and other numbers, but based on the poll numbers, the people of this country aren't buying it. You see it because we're going up and they're going down. Let's keep it going for a while. Let's keep it going for a while. I mean I have one problem. I have one problem and it has been... It's been very hard on my family. Whoever heard... Impeachment, to me, is a dirty word. It's been very unfair, very hard on my family. Me, my whole life is crazy. What a life I lead. You think this is fun, don't you? But it's been very hard on my family, very, very hard, but I'll tell you what I found. The Republicans, they stick together. I mean they have really stuck. But you know what they're doing now? The Republicans are coming, ""Sir, our poll numbers are going through the roof. Do you think we could keep this going?"" I said, ""Do me a favor. Let's get it ended."" They said, ""But let's keep it going, President. It's so great because we've never had a time like this."" I got a call from the evangelical leaders the other day, a whole lot of them. They said the church has never been more energized as it is right now because of what they're trying to do to our President, ever. So we have a great group of Republicans, but I said, ""You know, fellows, I don't know,"" but they actually said, ""Let's keep this sucker going for a while, Mr. President. I said, ""I don't know."" There's something nice about ending it, but it's dirty stuff. But let me just say with this from the Ukrainian... Right here, from the Ukrainian president and the Ukrainian foreign minister, this is the whole ballgame. So in theory, they should end it tonight, but they won't. They'll find something. They'll find something. These are very dishonest people. Democrats are trying to overthrow the last election because they know they're not going to win the next election. That's all it is. And never forget... The Democrats in Washington are trying to stop me because I'm fighting for you, fighting for you. They're attacking and they don't, that's what he just said. They don't care about us. Who said that? Raise your hand. That's right, they don't. They don't care and they don't care about African-Americans. They talk. They work for the African-American very hard two months before election, and then people don't hear from him anymore. I remember when I said, ""What the hell do you have to lose?"" Remember that? They said that they saw that, and you know what happened. We have the best employment numbers and the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country, records and they're attacking me and they're attacking the Republican Party. Really, it's an attack on the whole party because I'm taking on the broken establishment and restoring government's loyalty to the people. If you want to see what corruption looks like, just watch the video of sleepy Joe and watch him as he brags about withholding a billion dollars in aid money to Ukraine. Until Ukraine fires the prosecutors, gets rid of the prosecutor that's been going after his son and his son's company in Ukraine. His son got millions of dollars from a company. See how much he made before the father was vice president. So no experience, no nothing, millions of dollars, paid approximately $168,000 a month plus millions of dollars with no expense. Would anybody here take that job? I think so. I think so. I think I might take that job, OK. That's a good job and then Hunter flew to China. You know, we're making a great deal with China or we're taking in billions in tariffs. I can live either way. They want to make the deal much more than I did, but he flew to China with his father on Air Force Two, which is a slightly smaller version of Air Force One. And while the vice president was going soft on China, his son picks up $1.5 billion for his stupid fund that he never did before, meaning he could make tens of millions of dollars a year, and I was with the top Wall Street people the other day. They love us because we're setting records every week virtually on the sidewalk which, by the way, means companies coming in and jobs, jobs, jobs. That's what it's about, but I was with the top guys and I was talking to them, and these guys that do this for a living. I said, ""Can you go into China and pick up 1.5 billion in ten minutes?"" They said, ""Impossible."" I said, ""Well, supposing, like you guys, can you do it?"" ""Can't do it, can't do it,"" but a guy with no experience can do it and the fake news doesn't even want to write about it, but it will become a major campaign issue. It will become... It will become a major campaign issue. Americans deserve... Assuming he wins, which I hope he does. I mean the only problem is we will have the lowest ratings in the history of debates because he's a very sleepy person. He's exhausted. Joe is exhausted, tired. Americans deserve to know the truth, but the fake news media, they're covering it up like they've never covered it up before ever in the history of our country. In fact, I saw a report today. We kill al-Baghdadi, the worst terrorist, head of ISIS, founder of ISIS, building a new ISIS. We were the ones that took 100 percent of the caliphate. When I took it over, ISIS was all over the place. We defeated 100 percent of the caliphate, right? When we took down al-Baghdadi two weeks ago, they said, President Trump, out of the stories written, had 64 percent bad publicity. How do you get bad publicity? Not only that. We killed him. We didn't lose one of our 68 incredibly talented soldiers and the fake news gave me bad publicity. We can't win. The other thing, one of the papers, the Washington Post, which is a terrible newspaper, started talking about al-Baghdadi as a great religious leader. Oh, give me a... If the other side would have killed him, he would have been the worst human being ever created, but he was a bad guy and we got him and that's the way we want it. That's why we are more determined than ever to drain the swamp and that's what we're doing, draining the swamp. Washington Democrats have declared war on your values and the values of a great, great place. It's called Louisiana. Have you ever heard of it? So in two days you can show the far left Democrats that you won't stand for their socialism and their corruption. You know, your 401Ks are through the roof, right. You know that, since the election. If you want to see them go down, start voting Democrat. You'll see them cut in half. You'll see them cut a lot further than that. On Saturday, you need to fire your far left Governor. Again, he talks, but he won't be there when it needs a vote because when Pelosi and all of these characters from Washington call them up, Schumer, how about Chuck, crying Chuck? I call him crying Chuck because I saw him cry one time while making a speech. I said, ""Isn't that sad?"" I've never seen him cry before. I call him crying Chuck, crying Chuck, little ear stuff, you know, little. And you have a chance to elect a true Louisiana champion, Eddie Rispone, a real success, by the way. Got to get out. You got to get out. You know, in Mississippi two weeks ago, we had a tremendous success. We elected a Governor. He won by much more than anticipated, really good guy and everybody down the ticket elected by more than people thought. In Kentucky, we elected everybody. The Governor got brought up in a few short days, 19 points. I went. We made a speech. The whole ticket was there. Everybody won big. Governor's a really good guy, but 19 points is a big thing and he lost by just a few thousand votes. And the headlines the next day: Trump took a loss. I lift him up a lot. So Trump took a loss, so you got to give me a big win, please. OK? OK? Now he made a lot of hard decisions and he didn't win, but we brought him up a lot and the rest of Kentucky, I'll tell you what, they had record, record numbers, but Eddie Rispone, you have to understand, is pro family, pro life, pro Second Amendment and 100 percent pro American. So I've known Eddie for a long time but, you know, you have to know a little background. He was a very, very successful guy, made a lot of money. He went against a phenomenally talented and a wonderful human being. We all know Ralph and love Ralph, and I'm going to bring Ralph up here in a second. Eddie and Ralph, they want criminal aliens off our streets and dangerous offenders behind bars, and they want them behind bars. Eddie's going to cut your taxes. You pay very high taxes, in case you haven't noticed. Reduce your regulations and protect Louisiana energy which is under siege. If any of these other people get in, you know what's going to happen? There won't be any energy. We'll be... I don't know what the hell we're going to be doing, right? They don't want any petroleum product. They don't want coal. They probably don't even want wind with the windmills, you know. Try liking a windmill when it's 50 feet away from your house and blowing and noisy and the birds are dropping all over the place, not the greatest. We want Rispone. By supporting Eddie, you will deliver a powerful rebuke to the socialists trying to sabotage our democracy and to erase your cherished way of life in Louisiana. And you really can. You can send a tremendous message back to Washington because Eddie's running against the failed far left man, John Bel Edwards. I mean he's failed. He has let you down so badly, economic development. He's a tool of Nancy. He's a tool of Chuck. He's probably even a tool of that guy, Adam Shifty Schiff. I don't think Schiff plays very well down here. He's controlled by the same extremists who are pushing the impeachment witch hunt and John Bel Edwards, if he gets ever involved in that, he's going to push it like hell. And honestly, I didn't have to be done. All I do is make enemies because if he wins, I got another enemy mean. What the hell difference does it make? I have so many, but then I have an enemy in Louisiana. I don't want that, and you need a Republican here. Everyone's Republican. You need a Republican, not a Democrat. It's one of the reasons he gets nothing done. He's a chosen candidate. Think of this, John Bel. He wants open borders. He wants radical pro-abortion policies and he loves the fake news media. I hear they treat him great. They love him. You know why they love him? Because he does what they want and what they want is exactly the opposite of what you want. We know that. A vote for John Bel Edwards is a vote for radical leftists who despise your values, hate your beliefs and want to crush the workers of the state. You're doing lousy compared to others. Look, the whole country is doing great. We're having a great, great surge like we've never had in the history. Our country is the strongest it's ever been, but you're ranked number 50 on economic development. So you're doing fine, but you're not doing like you should be doing, and that's after I gave you a $10 billion. I was down two months ago on the LNG plant, on the Gulf, right? A $10 billion plant, and now they want to expand it. It's doing so well. Edwards broke his solemn vow to the people of Louisiana when he rammed through the largest tax site. He went... He pushed through the largest tax hike in the history of your state. He lied to you. He double crossed you and you can never trust him. He will not vote for us. It's called Make America Great Again. It's called Keep America Great and just to finish up, and I want to hit him strong because what the hell he hates me now. I mean I don't know. I don't think he ever liked me, although he used to really be nice to me in person. He used to go out and say, ""I really like the president."" Then he'd go inside and say, ""I don't like him at all,"" but just to finish up, he's in the pocket of the trial lawyers who have sent your car insurance rate to the highest level anywhere in the United States. It's crazy. He allowed illegal aliens to steal millions of healthcare dollars from hardworking Louisiana families and John Bel Edwards supports illegal aliens, not American citizens. It's pretty simple. And here's another one that I hate to say because we don't want to hurt your state, but on John Bel Edwards watch, Louisiana has the highest murder rate in all of America. Do you know that? So on Saturday, your choice is clear. You've got to send a message back, a vote for John Bel Edwards, your current Governor, where your taxes are too high, your car insurance is a disaster. Your unemployment, compared to other states, isn't great at all. You're fiftieth in economic development and number one in murders. It's a vote for the Washington swamp. It's a vote for the Washington establishment. So on Saturday, get out. That's the last thing to do now, get out and vote for Eddie Rispone who's for jobs, safety and freedom. So with that... Man, that was a long harangue, but I want to make... Seriously, I want to put it in your head. It's very important, and you know what? Even if John Bel wanted to do good, he can't. He's got to go through all the Republicans. They can't stand this guy, so you got to vote for Eddie. Eddie, could I ask Eddie to come on up and say a few words? Eddie, Eddie Rispone, get out and vote. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for being here. Louisiana, we are Trump country. We love President Trump and he loves Louisiana. You might not know this, but this is the fourth time he's been to Louisiana to help us win back our state. He went to Alabama last weekend to help the LSU Tigers beat Bama. Now we have to... Now we have to fire our liberal tax and spend socialist leaning Governor, John Bel Edwards. John Bel Edwards has been... He has passed the highest tax in the history of Louisiana. He's attacked the oil and gas industry where we've lost thousands of jobs. He has released over a thousand dangerous criminals. He supports New Orleans as a sanctuary city and he and his greedy trial lawyer friends, they are causing us to have the second highest car insurance in America. We have to get rid of John Bel Edwards and we need your help. But this is bigger than Louisiana. We have got to send a message to these liberal, socialist Democrats in Washington that we support our president, and we are not going to put up with all the lies that they're calling us out on. Let's send a message to them, and like the president just said how do we send that message? Is that we elect me as your Governor and say that we are going to fire John Bel and we're going to be back where we belong. We are red state. We're going to work with the Conservatives. We're going to work with this president to make Louisiana number one in the south when it comes to jobs and opportunities. For our children and grandchildren, so they can stay here and call Louisiana home. That's what we're here for, folks. We want them to stay here. And what can you do? You can vote for me. Send a message to Washington, turn our state around, but we're going to need your help. We need to get out to vote. We need to tell our friends and families and everyone we know to get out and vote Saturday, so we can turn Louisiana around and then support our president in 2020. God bless you. Thank you. Great businessman, that's what you need. Thank you, Eddie, great job. Thank you. So we're also thrilled to be joined tonight by many of your terrific Louisiana leaders, and I want to ask a few of these people to come up. I might as well ask them all to come out. They're warriors, all of them. A man who knows more about the medical world than just about anybody, I know, it helps that he's also a doctor in addition to being a senator, and he's a great man and a great person, Senator Bill Cassidy. Come on up, Bill, and a man who's become a great friend of mine. He's so tough and he's so smart. You know who I'm talking about, and he's got the greatest name, a very special guy, went to Oxford. He went to Oxford. You know what that means? That means good. That means you're very good, but he's an incredible guy and he loves his state. John Kennedy, Senator John Kennedy. And I think what we'll do is we'll have some of our incredible warriors come up also, alright, because we have a man that you never heard of before. He's the toughest guy. He got hit hard. He got hit hard, and you know when they had him out at second base less than a year after, he couldn't move too well. He didn't have a big range. I tell the story: he was in the big stadium and they were playing the Democrats of all people and the first pitch, a hard shot was hit to the second baseman and that ball was hit hard. And I said, "" Oh, this is a disaster,"" and Steve got down, Steve Scalise, and he caught that ball and he threw that ball to first base that he came off to a hero's welcome. Steve Scalise, come up, Steve. Great guy. I went to the hospital with the first lady the night that he was hit and he wasn't looking too good. The doctor said, ""Not looking good, sir."" And he wasn't and I told him one thing I learned that night, your wife loves you because she was crying. You know, I've known many wives that weren't crying in those cases, but I said Steve, ""Your wife is in love with you, man,"" but you got better fast and we love you. He's a brave guy and another brave man and a highly respected man and a man who gave Eddie a hell of a fight that was close and they've developed a real relationship and a respect for each other. They were on the campaign trail and it was a nasty campaign, but not really nasty enough because Ralph respects Eddie a lot and Eddie respects Ralph a lot. And I want to ask Ralph Abraham, please come up, Ralph, Congressman. And I want Garrett Graves, come on up here, Garrett; Clay Higgins, your great Congressman Mike Johnson. These are all incredible people. Mike Johnson, great man, great people; your former Congressman John Fleming; your state's Attorney General, Jeff Landry; state Treasurer, John Schroeder, come on up. Come on, John, you got to say something. And we can't forget our Secretary of State who's also on the ballot, Kyle Ardoin. Hello, Louisiana. Hello Shreveport Bossier. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, President Trump, for visiting our state yet again. I stand before you tonight. I stand before you tonight as a proud deplorable and unlike some of the folks in Washington DC, I'm talking about the cultured, cosmopolitan goat's milk latte drinking, avocado toast eating insiders elite. As the deplorable, I believe that everybody counts and I care about you, and so does the president of the United States of America. Go vote Saturday. Unless, listen to me, unless you're happy with crappy, vote for Eddie Rispone for Governor. Unless you're happy with crappy, vote for Kyle Ardoin for Secretary of State. Unless you're happy with crappy, vote for Robert Mills for the state senate. God bless America. God bless our president and God bless the state of Louisiana. Now, you know, I'm a little confused tonight and I want to make sure the record is straight. Now, I'm going to give you a choice. You know, the president's been speaking as if he might have run against Joe Biden. So let me ask you who do you think is more pro military, Joe Biden or Donald? And who do you think is going to protect your second amendment rights, Joe Biden or Donald? And who do you think... Who do you think is going to protect your borders? Now there is one question. There is one question you're abiding to. That would be who's going to vote for our incumbent Governor? But if he was a resident of our state, who would vote for Eddie Rispone, Joe Biden or Donald? Now, we need not just you to vote for Eddie Rispone, but we also need you to get your neighbor and your neighbor's neighbor. This is going to be a close election. This could be decided by 1,000 votes in the entire state. You're going to make a difference if you vote, and if you get your friend to vote, and if you get your friend's friend to vote, and if you get your girlfriend to vote and your boyfriend to vote. And if you do that and if Eddie Rispone gets elected, do you know who they're going to credit? They're going to credit Donald, and they're also going to credit you. Thank you. Thank you, Bill. Thank you, John. I want to bring up a man who has shown a lot. He's incredible, so respected in Congress, so respected by me and he's become a real friend and they're all warriors. This guy though has been something very special. He ran a tough, tough campaign. I would say he had a little less money to spend than Eddie, but that's OK and it was tight and now he's a thousand percent for Eddie and Ralph, could you come up? Ralph Abraham come up and say a few words. Thank you so much. We all thank President Trump for making America great again. What I thank President Trump for was allowing me to ride with him on Air Force One to get away from that insanity of Pelosi and Schiff. And, Mr. President, thank you so much for doing the United States Mexican Canada agreement. Thank you for taking care of our military. Thank you for taking care of our law enforcement and Pelosi will not allow us to vote on that in the United States Congress. This great president has got our backs, but Pelosi won't let us vote on that. Now, Mr. President, in Louisiana, we know what horse manure looks like. And we know that this impeachment inquiry is a trunk full of it, and we know that Pelosi and Adam Schiff are up to their necks in it. And I've got a new theme song for Adam Schiff. It's Marvin Gaye's, we heard it through the grapevine because there is no direct conversation except between you and President Zelensky, and you said it, Mr. Trump. They can't beat you at the polls, so they're trying to overturn our vote in the last election. We're not going to let that happen. We also said thank you, Mr. President, for pointing out that we are last in economy. We are last in jobs. We are last in murder. In everything that we should be first in Louisiana, we're dead last. We are much better than that, and while the Democrats are trying to convince us that three makes a couple, I don't have any idea what a thriple is, but that's what they're telling us that three makes two. This great man is working for us every day of the week so we appreciate you, Mr. President, and in Louisiana, we know that we have the most fertile farmland. We have oil and gas industry that will rival most countries and we have our wonderful peoples whose ingenuity is second to none. We are not going to be fooled again, Mr. President. Go out and vote Saturday. Vote for Eddie and let's get this thing done. Thank you. They're great people. Thank you all very much. Now tell me something, it's a Thursday night because we didn't want to interrupt your high school football, right. We didn't want to interrupt other things that you were doing. I always like Friday night for these things, but I'll tell you what, this is some Thursday night. Would you rather be any place else than a Trump ballot, right? A Trump rally on Thursday night now, but with the help of everyone here tonight, America is booming like never before. We created 6.7 million new jobs, unemployment recently reached the lowest rate in over 50 years, think of that, half a century. African-American unemployment just reached its lowest rate ever recorded, history. Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment have also recently hit the lowest rates in the history of our country. African-American poverty has reached the lowest rate in the history of our country. Nearly 2.5 million people have risen out of poverty. The number of Americans quitting the job that they hate to take a new job is higher than ever before. You can go out and get another job. You are not stuck in a job you don't want, and you get more money when you go out sometimes. That hasn't happened in many, many decades. After years of painful stagnation and decline, wages and incomes are rising at one of the fastest rates in history. Real wages for low income workers have gone up nearly 9 percent. Average median income under President Bush, as an example, rose only $400 over an eight year period, $400 over eight years. Under President Obama, it rose only $975 over"
"Wow, do you have spirit? Hello, Louisiana. Thank you very much. Incredible. What a crowd. And you've got thousands of people outside right now, so, if anybody wants to give up their seat. Thank you very much. So, I'm really thrilled to be back. This has been an incredible state for Trump and it's really incredible. Do you remember what happened? That wasn't even a close election was it? That wasn't too close. But it's great to be with thousands of proud, hardworking, freedom-loving American patriots. That's what you are. And soon, the people of Louisiana will head to the polls. You know I'm really here for a little different reason. It's called early voting. Do you believe it? That's how much I like Eddie, I'm here for early voting. You know you can go out and vote, I said, well, not a lot of people do that. They say in Louisiana, 40% of the vote is early voting. I said like I said I think I'll come. I'll come. But you're going out to replace a radical Liberal Democrat as your Governor  John Bel Edwards has not done the job. You're going to have a great new Republican, tremendously successful man, as your Governor, Eddie Rispone. Eddie Rispone. So, early voting is already underway and I think I'm coming back here on Thursday. Do you believe it? I'm doing a double. I'm doing a double. One of your really good anchors just interviewed me, the locals. Because locals treat me good, the fake news doesn't treat me too good.  But the locals, the locals do. And he said you know, you've been to Louisiana already like four times. I said that's because I happen to like it. If I don't like it, I can't do it. I can't do it. But early voting ends on Saturday, and then, you go out next Saturday and you vote, and I just want you to get out. Do it early. That way, you can do -- watch your football games. And by the way, by the way, this Saturday, this Saturday, I'm going to be at a certain game. This Saturday, I'm going to be at a certain game. Let's see it's LSU versus a pretty good team from Alabama  And I hear and I'm a football fan. I hear you have a great quarterback, we're going to see, but I'm actually going to the game. I said that's the game I want to go to. So that'll be -- that'll be tremendous. Two great teams, two great teams that I look forward -- so, I came to get you for early voting for Eddie Rispone. He's going to be a great Governor. Under Republican leadership, the economy is booming, wages are rising, confidence is soaring, and America is stronger than ever before, and you know it. We're setting new records every day and with the help of Louisiana energy workers, the United States is now -- you know, you have some of the greatest energy and energy workers anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on planet Earth. And we are supporting law enforcement and we are supporting our police. We're rebuilding our military and you know where all these beautiful new equipment is made? The rockets, the Jets, the ships, everything, it's made in America, don't we love that? And we're defeating radical Islamic terrorists. We're defeating them. And you saw last week, the monstrous animal known as al Baghdadi is dead. You know, if somebody else did that, they'd be talking about it for months. Me, I got about a day out of it from these people but that's OK, that's OK.  Look at how many they are. They have a lot of people. They have a lot of people. You know, it is true. I'll say who the greatest hero was, forget about Trump. I'm not, he was -- we did a lot of good work together, the dog was the great hero. Conan, Conan, he's coming to the White House very soon. I said bring him now. They said, sir, he's on a mission. I said you've got to be kidding. Come on, give him a couple of days rest, please. But no, Conan is coming to the Oval Office very shortly. So, that's good. But our message to these blood-thirsty savages is clear, you don't stand a chance against the righteous might of the United States military. Because America is winning again and America is respected again. But while we are delivering safety and prosperity for Americans, the radical-left Democrats are trying to rip our nation apart.  They want to eradicate the rule of law, punish religious believers, silence you online, indoctrinate your children, and they're after your Second Amendment. Don't ever forget it.  They're after your Second Amendment. And with the Republicans, I can tell you one thing, nobody's going to hurt your Second Amendment. Nobody. In their campaign to transform America, Democrats are becoming increasingly totalitarian, suppressing dissent, defaming the innocent, eliminating due process, staging show trials, and trying to overthrow American democracy to impose their socialist agenda.  Make no mistake, if the Democrats get back in, you will have a depression. The likes of which you've never seen before and you are doing well. How are are 401(k)s is doing by the way? You wouldn't feel at all angry if they went down in half, and then in another year, half of that. That's what's going to happen. First, it was the Russia hoax, then it was Mueller, remember Mueller, with that hoax. The biggest lie ever foisted upon the American people, OK? But everybody stuck with us. If anything, we became more popular, maybe more popular. I mean last week, Hillary Clinton, crooked Hillary, as we affectionately call her.   So is there any place you would rather be than at a Trump rally on a beautiful, wonderful evening in Louisiana? I don't even know. Would you rather be at LSU versus Alabama or a Trump rally? Let's take the Trump rally. But Democrats must be accountable for their hoaxes and for their crimes. Now, corrupt politicians, Nancy Pelosi and shifty Adam Schiff, and the crooked media have launched the deranged, delusional, destructive, and hyper-partisan impeachment witch hunt.  Now, we go again except, a lot of things have happened because, you know, I don't know if you saw, I just got off -- I'm coming off the plane and they hand me, look at this guy right there, OK. They just hand me the story, coup has started, whistleblower's attorney said in 2017. Do you know when that was? That was a long time ago. It's all a hoax. They say January 2017, a coup has started and the impeachment will follow ultimately. It's all -- it's all a hoax. It's a scam. And you know who helps them? These people right back here, the media.  And then it said the lights are going to go out, the CNN light is going to go out. It said from the lawyer, a sleazeball. It said I predict CNN will play a key role in @realDonaldTrump, not finishing out his first term. Can you believe this? This is a hoax and this was done a long time ago. Then he goes, as one falls two more will take their place, referring to outgoing Trump administration employees. Who by the way, have been put through hell by this sleazebag there and by crooked politicians.  It just came out. That's the whistleblower. You know the whistleblower? The one that came out with this -- oh, that -- Trump said this and Trump said that. And then, when they heard my real phone call, the whistleblower disappeared. Shifty Schiff, he's a corrupt politician. Schiff didn't want to have the whistleblower anymore because nobody thought I was going to release the phone call. But as soon as I released the phone call -- and you don't like doing that with a foreign leader because you got to deal with foreign leaders. You don't want them to think -- today I spoke to President Erdogan of Turkey.  I don't know, is he worried that we're going to release it all over the world because somebody said something that could have been a little bit wrong. You can't do that. You can't do that. Now in this case, I had a perfect phone call, a totally perfect phone call, and -- and you know, anybody that can read -- you saw that on Mark Levin, but the whistleblower before they knew I was going to release, he came out with a whistleblower. You know, like he's some wonderful person, take a look at the whistleblower. But the whistleblower came out with his horrible statement about this call, so I really had no choice. I said immediately -- talk about transparency. I said release it, release it immediately. And then, the whistleblower saw it and shifty Schiff saw it, he's a total crook. Schiff saw it, Pelosi saw it, and they said, we've got a problem. We don't want to have anything to do with the whistleblower anymore and the whistleblower disappeared. You know who else disappeared? The second whistleblower. And you know who else disappeared? The informer to the whistleblower if there was such a person, which I doubt, which I doubt. So here it is. It just came out, just came out, it's a disgrace. I'll tell you what, it's so bad. These people are bad people and it's so bad what they do to our country. They rip the guts out of a country and it's a shame, and they shouldn't be allowed to do it, and people should stop. Maybe go to the Supreme Court, maybe, but they've got to stop it because we have a country to run. And these people in order to do things, are willing to do illegal acts. It's an illegal act as far as I'm concerned. Last week, the Democrats voted to nullify the ballots of tens of millions of Americans, disgracing themselves and dishonoring their oaths. Now, the good news, the Republicans, were unanimous. The Republicans finally stood together. They stood together because, you know, the Democrats are lousy politicians, lousy. They have open borders. How do you like having an open border with Mexico? Do you like that?  The Democrats, want open borders, they want sanctuary cities -- you're not too big into sanctuary cities. With John Bel Edwards, you will soon have a sanctuary city in your midst, but the Democrats -- think of it. They want open borders, which means crime. Now, look at what's going on in Mexico, and I'll tell you what, I have to thank the Mexican government in one way, 27,000 soldiers, but they have other problems. These cartels are a tremendous problem, we're building and we are building a wall. That wall is going up and it's going up. Our military is now building the wall and it's going up fast. The Army Corps of Engineers and it's going up and it's doing great, it's doing great. It should have been built years ago. That wall should have been built many years ago, never did. They never could figure it out, but I figured it out. It wasn't easy. I had 100% of the other party fighting me. Do you think that's easy? And you know, we had a majority of a few people, very little, very little. We needed Democrat votes, but we had 100% of the people, and I made one mistake. I should have said I don't want the wall and the Democrats would have absolutely insisted that I built it. I should have said. You know, five or six years ago, they all wanted the wall. It was only when I came along and I said we've got to build the wall now. You know, you've wanted it but you'd never had the vision or the talent to get it built. So, we've got to build it. I figured that they'd all join but said they said, no, we don't want the wall anymore. They said no, no, we can have drone tech now. Oh, that's great, people are pouring across, you've got drones flying all over the place. That's great. That's great. No, we should have said we want to -- never build a wall and they would have insisted that it get built immediately. These are -- I call them now the do-nothing Democrats. We have loopholes that they could solve in 15 minutes. We could sit down, loopholes, catch and release, chain migration. You know, that's when you come in and then everybody you've ever met in the history of the world comes in with you, your mother, your grandfather, your cousin, your brother, your aunt, your uncle, any person that ever met you, come on into our country. We had a man on the west side highway. I don't even call him a man, I call him an animal. He ran over a lot of people. It turned right going up very, very fast speed where we had this beautiful park in New York City and he killed -- I think eight people. They never talk about the people that lost their legs, that lost their arms, that are permanently disfigured, they never talk about that. They say eight people were killed. They don't talk about people. These are people that want to keep themselves in shape and they're running and they're running and they're all over, and then, this maniac turns to the right going at an unbelievable speed and he kills people and he horribly injures people and we can't let this happen. We can't let it happen. These unhinged extremists, the Democrats have been plotting to illegally overturn the election that we won. I didn't win it. We all want it together. They came from all over the place. They came from all over. I mean, you're state isn't that Republican, and yet, we're so far up, but I'll come to see you anyway. Even -- yeah, you could say, you know, focus on a couple of the closer ones, but we're going to come here anyway and because we do love it. But think of this, 19 minutes after I took the oath of office, the horrible, disgusting Washington Post, which is a terrible paper, it declared the campaign -- this is 19 minutes. I just taken the office and an article comes out, the campaign to impeach President Trump has begun. Oh, that's nice. Thank you very much. Do you see the reporter over there? Great.  And then during the term, sleepy Joe Biden, who's dumb as a rock said, you fired the guy, you got a billion dollars. You don't fire the guy, you get nothing and it's on tape, and the press refuses to print it. You talk quid pro quo. You fire that guy, you got to -- you don't fire, you get nothing. Think of that one, OK? That's called quid pro quo, not here. That was said by Joe Biden to get rid of the prosecutor in Ukraine, who is looking at his son, who just got thrown out of the Navy, who has paid millions and millions of dollars, even though he had absolutely no energy experience. In Louisiana, in Louisiana, you wouldn't have hired him and your energy companies. They would have paid to keep him the hell out, OK? He had no experience. Right? How old is your son? How old is that young man there? How old are you? How old -- yeah. Eight. Let me tell you, he's eight. He knows energy better than Joe Biden's son. Then Biden flies to China. He obviously met with different people than I deal with because we're doing well with China, but I tell you.  But he flies with his father, who is then Vice President, and in 10 minutes, he picks up $1.5 billion for his fund. These are different Chinese people that I've been working with, excuse me. I called up one of the top guys on Wall Street, I said can you do that? Nope. I've been trying for years. I can't do it. He's like one of the smartest guys in Wall Street. Now, the Democrats are covering up slow, sleepy Joe. And they're trying to steal your vote and silence your voice, and I don't even know because I'm looking at Pocahontas. She's like -- Can you imagine? No, no Pocahontas is starting to emerge from the ashes. I thought she was gone, we hit her very hard six months ago. I give her credit, she's emerging from the ashes, not a nice person. 1,024th Indian blood -- I have more than she does and I have none. I have none, but I have more than she does. I'd love to have some, I just happen to have none, but I believe I have more than she does. Generations of American patriots sacrificed everything they had to secure this republic and your sacred right to vote. We will not let the Democrats take that incredible privilege away. The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes, smears, slanders, and scams. The Democrats, shameful conduct, has created an angry majority, and that's what we are, we're a majority and we're angry. That we'll vote the do-nothing Democrats out of office in 2020, especially, we're going to take back the House. And we're going to focus hard like those 36 Democrats in Trump areas, areas that I won by a lot. I didn't run in 2018. You know, they keep forgetting. I didn't run. I said go out to vote, go out to vote, but a lot of people said I'm not going to vote until Trump runs. OK, that's nice. I love those. I love the people. I love -- but they see what we're doing. But I didn't run in 2018, but people forget, we picked up two seats in the Senate. They never want to talk about that. We picked up two seats. They never talk about it. I tried to get them to talk about it, and because of that, what we've done with judges and different appointments, but with your help, we are going to drain the swamp, and that's what we're doing. Right now, Louisiana can send the radical left a message that they can never ignore. And don't forget in 2016, people came from the mountains and the valleys and the rivers and the oceans, they came from all over. The Democrats said what the hell is happening? Where are these people coming from? These were people that were great Americans, worked hard, made a lot of money, much smarter. You know they call them the elite, we're the elite, we're the elite. I know this. I know this. Speaking for myself, I went to better schools than they did. I went to -- I have nicer houses than they do, I have nicer apartments. I have nicer everything and they're elite. But we're not elite. You people work your asses off. You're making a lot of money, you're smarter than they are. You're smarter than they are. You're smarter than they are. Antifa, you ever see Antifa?  Do you know what that is? That's the size of their arm. They come in with the black -- oh, they're big tough guys. And then, they start hitting a single reporter, conservative reporter, they start battering with the -- but when the tough guys show up, Antifa says, I think we'll take a pass. Let's get out of here. No, you're smarter, you're tougher, you're, richer, you got more going, but a lot of people they came up because they didn't like what they were seeing. They didn't want to vote for the people that were running for President. They didn't want to vote for Obama. They didn't want to vote for the people that were running for President. But when I ran, something happened that was amazing. The lines were, I'll tell you what, in some cases, miles long, and they saw something, they said what is going on? And you know what was going on? Probably the greatest election in the history of our country. It's true. It's your election. I was your spokesman. I was a person that was able to tell a message, but I'm representing you. And now, these people illegally, through corrupt people like Adam Schiff, that makes up what I said. He gets up in front of the United States Congress and the American people, and he reads my statement, but I didn't say it. He made it up, and then, we called him on it because he never thought that I was going to release the conversation because you just don't do that. But Ukraine was great, we call them up. Do you mind if we release the conversation? No, we don't. Why? I said don't worry about it, just we're going to release it. You now, thank you very much. And we released it and we caught them in the middle of a giant lie, they're a scam. They're scammers. So, you're going to fire your Liberal Democrat Governor. I don't know how the hell he ever got there. How did he get there? This is Louisiana, right? This is Louis -- how did you get a Liberal Democrat to be your Governor? Could you explain that please? No, I actually, no, it was a convergence of a lot of different things happen. And congratulations and your car insurance is the highest in the world, your taxes are horrible, you're rated number 50 in economic development. Can you believe it? With all that we're doing, you're rated 50 out of 50, but we want to send Governor, and I mean, I've known this man for a long time. He's an incredible talent. He's an incredible businessman. He doesn't need the money. He's a wonderful person. He has the backing of Ralph. And I tell you what, Ralph is a winner. You know Ralph, right? Ralph Abraham. Right? He has the backing of Ralph. I just spent a lot of time with Ralph Abraham. We came in together, Ralph, wouldn't have missed it, and he's an incredible man. He's an incredible man and he respects Eddie, and Eddie respects him a lot. They had a hard-fought deal, but they respect each other and like each other a lot. And that's rare because I'll tell you what, if I'm going against somebody, I don't know if I can ever like him. I don't know. But Ralph is a better man than me. He's a better man. And they're going to put that all over television tonight because they're going to say Ralph should run for President if that's the case and that's OK. Now, he is. He's a great man. So, Eddie Rispone is not a career politician. He's a business leader, highly, highly respected, a man of faith, and a lifelong Louisiana patriot and many of you know Eddi through his success. Eddie will cut your taxes and regulations. He will cut your car insurance in half. We have the highest car insureds in the entire nation by far. Some people call it auto insurance, call it whatever the heck you want. You have the highest in the country, he's going to cut it in half or more, and turn this state into a giant magnet for great-paying jobs. That's what he wants to do. Eddie is tough on crime, strong on borders, and he'll work with ICE and Border Patrol to get violent criminals off the streets. We'll bring them back to their country ideally or we'll put them in jail where they belong. Eddie is pro-energy, pro-family, pro-life, and pro-Second Amendment totally. Eddie will defend your values from the all-out assault by the extreme left. That's what they are. They're the extreme left. I call them AOC-plus-three. AOC, that's a real beauty. You only have eleven years to live, folks, eleven years, because climate change is just coming up on a . You know, it's 12 years but today, I heard one of these crazies say, it's down to eleven, and they arrested Jane Fonda. Nothing changes. I remember 30, 40 years ago. They're -- she always has the handcuffs on. Oh man, she's waving to everybody with the handcuffs. I can't believe it. They -- remember that? She went to Vietnam to find out how nice they were. They weren't too nice to her by the way. No, they arrested her today, Jane Fonda, nothing changes. They arrest every, every, 25 years, they arrest her. Eddie's opponent is a radical Liberal, and you didn't know that. In fact, he even says good things about me, but he'll never vote for me. You know why he says good things about me? Because he thinks you'd like me. If he didn't otherwise, he'd say bad. But here's the thing, he'll say good things. In fact, I said he must be a Republican. He sometimes says better about me than most Republicans, but here's the problem, he'll never vote for us. He'll never support our Second Amendment the way we need the support. He's never going to reduce your car insurance. He's never going to cut your taxes. He's had a long time, he wasn't able to do it. I got you a big tax cut, the biggest ever. I mean the Democrats, I have this crazy theory. I don't know how it works. I don't think I could be a successful Democrat. You know one of the theories? We're going to raise your taxes. Now, how does that work? I'm always saying we're going to get you a bigger. We are, we're going to cut your taxes more. They're saying -- look what do I know? I've only been doing this for three years, but they say, we're going to raise your taxes. And I'm saying, excuse me, does that work? That's what they say. Now, I'm going to cut your taxes even further and you see what it's done for our country. But you have a radical Liberal named John Bel Edwards. Edward was an ardent supporter of crooked Hillary Clinton and she is crooked as hell.  John Bel Edwards broke his solemn promise to the people of Louisiana when he rammed, that's the only word I could say, rammed through the largest tax hike in Louisiana history. Does everybody remember that? He gave you the largest tax hike and he probably says, I raised your taxes, vote for me. No, I'm saying this, I lowered your taxes. I gave you the greatest tax reduction in the history of our country, greater even than Ronald Reagan's reduction many years ago. Now, maybe that doesn't work in modern-day politics, but you know what, I'm going to stick with it, whether it does or not, I'm sticking. And you see what's happened, billions and billions and trillions of dollars is coming back into the country. We're the hottest economic force anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world, and taking in more. With a lower rate, we're taking in more money than we did with a higher rate. That's a pretty good statement. He violated your sacred trust and can never be trusted again. He raised your taxes and he's done nothing about your car insurance. You know, one of the big things here is car insurance, right? And I kept saying, what are the things -- because I want to pinpoint it and I kept seeing car insurance. That's very unusual. I've never heard that with the state. I never thought of car insurance, right? But here your car insurance is the highest in the nation and it's out of control, and it's so easy to do. Now, Edwards is trying to demolish your state's economy by shutting down Louisiana Energy on behalf of the crazy radical far-left.  Edwards is totally owned by the Liberal trial lawyers, who are causing your state insurance rates and car insurance to skyrocket through the roof. Perhaps, most disturbing, Edwards has allowed illegal aliens to steal millions of dollars and healthcare from hardworking Louisiana citizens.  He cares more about illegal aliens than he cares about Louisiana citizens. I'll tell what, I love our military, Eddie loves our military. They care more about illegal aliens than taking care of our vets and taking care of our military. Edwards is dangerously soft on crime, you know that. And Louisiana has the highest murder rate. I hate to say this, please turn off those television cameras immediately. I don't want to say it, but you have the highest murder rate anywhere in the United States. I didn't know that. I didn't want to say it. OK, I'm sure they turned it off because they really listened. Edwards is backed by his fellow open border extremists and pro-abortion lobby. Edwards is a complete disaster for the state of Louisiana, and you cannot afford four more years of this far-left travesty. It is time to replace your failed Governor John Bel Edwards with Eddie Rispone, who is going to do an incredible job. So, everybody needs to get out and vote early, vote early, 40%. I can't believe four -- I never heard 40%. Usually, it's like 2%, then they say don't worry about it. But early voting has started so get out and vote for Eddie Rispone and do it right away. And then, let's go to the football game and let's do lots of things, do lots of things. Do it before the game or just make sure you get it out. And you know, the election itself is going to be taking place Saturday. So get out, get out, get out early, get out early, get out early. So, I want to bring up a man that I've gotten to know well, but I know him through reputation because he's really a business legend in many ways, and he's going to put that genius to work for you, Eddie Rispone. Please come up. Please come up.  That is crazy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Before I get started, I want to say this, Congressman Abraham, I would not be here. John Bel might be your Governor today if it wouldn't be for Congressman Abraham working very hard, the two of us traveling the state to make sure that we got the vote out and let the state of Louisiana know that we can do better. Let's give him another round of  . Louisiana is Trump country. Is that right? We're so grateful to the President to come down here more than once now to get out the vote, to mobilize, to make Louisiana great like it deserves to be. We need something different if we want to be different. We don't deserve to be last. We are last, folks. We have got to do something different and it starts by electing a different kind of Governor. We need a pro-Trump conservative, an outsider, someone with serious business skills, someone who is not beholden to special interests, someone is -- that's got backbone to go against the status quo, someone like Trump. That's what we need and we want to thank the President for coming here and exposing John Bel Edwards down here, as a Liberal as he is. Thank you. John Bel Edwards would want you to believe he's not one of those Liberal lunatics that are following and trying to impeach our President. We can send a message to them by voting me in and voting and supporting our President Donald Trump. Listen, I didn't think they could go any lower, folks, but just this Saturday, they're running ads now and push cards all over this state, accusing our President of being a racist and me being a racist, and you being a racist.  It is disgusting where -- how low they will go, that is their MO when they start panicking and worrying, they play the race card. It's unacceptable. We have a President here that has had the lowest unemployment for minorities in the history of United States and you call him a racist. We need to send them a message, folks. Louisiana is Conservative, we're going to have a Conservative Governor, an outsider, a businessman, someone who would make us number one in the nation. We can do that with your vote.  Thank you. That is amazing. That is amazing. This man can get the crowd fired up and he get Louisiana fired up. So, we go out in early vote and turn this state around. Thank him. I need your support. I need your vote and my wife and my family can use your prayers. Thank you. And I'm going to take one more liberty, Go Tigers. Beat Bama. This is amazing right here. Thank you, Eddie. Great job. Thank you.  Thank you very much. Thank you, Eddie. Good man, great man, going to be a great Governor. We're also thrilled to be joined tonight by many of your wonderful Louisiana leaders, and I have to say right now, two of them, they're warriors. They're incredible warriors. I'll ask them to come up for just a second. But they don't stop, very different type personalities, both unbelievable. They fight so hard for me, for you. They love this state. They love this country, Senator Bill Cassidy, Senator John Kennedy, come on up, fellas. You're doing great. Let me just echo what Eddie Rispone said, this is Trump Country. And let me add to what he said, with your help but only with your help, we can make it Rispone Country. Thank you. Hello, Louisiana. Thank you, Mr. President for visiting our state. In three short years, President Trump has doubled the growth in the greatest economy in all of human history. And you know what our Democratic friends have done for him?  Speaker Nancy Pelosi is trying to impeach him. I don't mean any disrespect but it must suck to be that dumb. Let me tell you, let me tell you one other thing, the same people that are backing speaker Pelosi are sending tens of millions of dollars to support Governor Edwards.  And all he has given us, all Governor Edwards has given us is decline and uncertainty. Now, unless, unless you're happy with crappy, I want your vote for Eddie Rispone for Governor. And I want you, I want you to vote for Kyle Ardoin for Secretary of State, and I want you, this is important, I want you to vote for Robert Mills for the Louisiana State Senate. God bless Louisiana, God bless our President, and God bless the United States of America.  Two great guys, two great warriors, two people that love your state and they love our country and I appreciate it very much. Two great Senators. So, I just want to bring up for a second, a man who is an incredible campaigner, an incredible Congressman. You talk about loving our country, he'll die for our country, he'll die for the people of this state. He loves the people of this state. He did rea"
"Thank you very much, and thank you to the original Lee Greenwood. Thank you. Thank you, Lee. Great guy. Well, I just want to say a very big, hello, Kentucky. Great place. It's great to be here in the home of a group called the Wildcats. Did you ever hear about the Kentucky Wildcats? And by the way, they play in a very big arena. This place -- look at this. Wow. Hello, up there. This is incredible, with thousands of proud, hardworking, freedom-loving American patriots, which is what you are. What you are. Tomorrow, the people of Kentucky will head to the polls, and you will vote to re-elect your terrific Republican Governor, Matt Bevin. He's done a fantastic job. He's done a fantastic job. And we're sending a signal by doing that to the rest of the country, to the rest of the world. That the Republican Party, you know what we stand for, but you see what's happening with the Democrats. They have gone crazy.  The do-nothing Democrats and they're not getting it done under. Republican leadership, the economy is booming, wages are rising, confidence is soaring, Kentucky is thriving like never ever before, and America is stronger than ever before. True.  Kentucky's unemployment rate has reached the lowest point in the history of our country. That's not bad. And I want to just tell you that you have incredible representatives and the job that Matt Bevin has done as Governor. He's had to do some things that you had to do and he's done unbelievably well, and it sets you up to be a rocket ship in the future, you had to do it. So, I just want to thank him for having the courage to do what he had to do, but you have the best numbers you've ever had in the history of the state. And with the help of your Senate Majority Leader, Mitch McConnell, we have confirmed 157 judges to follow the Constitution as written. And we're supporting our police, we're rebuilding our military, we're defeating radical Islamic terrorists like never before. The monstrous animal known as Al-Baghdadi is dead and the man that took his place is dead also.  American Special Forces gave the world's number one terrorist a one-way ticket to hell. No enemy on earth stands a chance against the awesome power of the United States military, which is now stronger than ever before. We've rebuilt it and it was all made in America, all made in America, and our country is winning again, and our country is highly respected again. But while we are creating jobs and killing terrorists, the radical Democrats are going totally insane.  They want to obliterate the rule of law, drive out fade from the public square, silen -- and you know this -- silence you online, confiscate your guns, you better be careful. The Second Amendment very, very important, very precious. They are after your Second Amendment. With us, nobody's touching our Second Amendment, and that includes a gentleman that's running against Matt. They're after your Second Amendment. We can't let that happen. They want to indoctrinate your children, you know this. Destroy anyone who holds traditional American values. All you have to do is ask the boys from Covington Catholic high school, some of whom are here tonight. The far-left wants to impose their authoritarian ideology on the nation, telling you what to think, what to believe, and how you should live.  They want to erase our traditions, our culture, our history, and our heroes. They want to subjugate you and break you to their will, but Kentucky will never be broken. Kentucky can't be broken. You're too strong and you're too smart. In their crazed thirst for power, the Democrats are trying to tear our country apart. First, Democrats engineered the Russia Hoax, the most egregious fraud ever foisted upon the American people, the Russian Hoax. Then, they did the Mueller scam, you remember that, the Mueller scam. Two years and they said nothing, and then, Mr. Mueller testified. That was a wonderful day, for me. And do you remember last week? I don't know Tulsi Gabbard, but Hillary Clinton said that Tulsi Gabbard is a Russian agent. I don't know Jill Stein, she's a greenie and that's fine. She's a greenie, Jill Stein. But Jill Stein was an agent of Russia also. These people are crazy. Now, corrupt politicians, Nancy Pelosi and Adam Schiff. They are corrupt.  And Nancy, unlike Kentucky, which is doing great. Nancy oughta stop wasting time, go back to her district in San Francisco, help the homeless, get rid of the drugs, get rid of the needles that are lying all over the street, and all of the things that are washing into the ocean through their storm sewer system. What's happened to San Francisco and what's happened to so many other places run by the radical left Democrats, it's unbelievable, Los Angeles. You take a look at Los Angeles, it looks like a third-world city, but go back to Nancy's area. Look at what's happened. There's been no place in the country that's gone down like the area that Nancy Pelosi represents, and she's wasting all of her time, and you know what, it's backfiring. You see it. But the media and the Democrats have launched an even more brazen assault on our nation with a deranged hyper-partisan impeachment with . Impeach, think of it.  So today, we just hit the highest number in the history of the stock market. Now, that's hundreds of dollars.  So last week, think of this, in the history of our country, it's never done better. And by the way, that's not rich, that's not poor, that's for everybody. Your 401(k)s, how are you doing? Pretty good, right? Pretty good. People tell me that their wives, their husbands, all of a sudden, they've been running 401(k)s for years, and they totally lost respect for -- let's say the husband, totally lost respect. Now, they think he's a financial genius because he's up 74%. She says, darling, I love you. You are the most incredible, brilliant, financial mind. And you know what? If the Democrats get in, that's not going down by 50%, that's going down to nothing. It's going to be worthless, it's going to be worthless. You'll have a depression the likes of which you've never seen, mark my words, but hopefully, we don't have to even think about it. And that was going to happen here, when we took over that was going down in the wrong direction, and don't forget, that was zero interest, we're paying interest. In other words, people are now getting interest in their money, but that was with zero interest, real easy with zero interest. Last week, the Democrats voted to try and nullify the ballots of tens of millions of Americans to be exact, 63 million people disgracing themselves and bringing shame upon the House of Representatives. They've been plotting to overthrow the election since the first hour that we won and actually before we won they were plotting to overthrow this election before we won. 19 minutes after I took the oath of office, the disgusting Washington Post -- look at all these people back there, look.  Fake news media, it's the fake news, look at all of them. What they don't know is that when we hang it up in five years or nine years or 13 years or maybe 17 years or maybe if I still have the strength, 21 years. See now, they're going crazy. Now, they're saying see, I told you, he was a dictator. He wants to take charge, in control of our country. These people are crazy. You have -- you have one nut job on television, he's sitting down, doing an interview recently, and he looks at the person he's interviewing, and he goes like he's in total depression, total depression. And he goes, he -- good friends up there. Thank you. He goes, you know he's going to win, don't you? You know he's going to win. Like he's -- like devastated, the guy goes, well, we're going to fight and we're going to -- no, no, he's going to win. You know he's never leaving office, don't you? He's never going to leave office? These people are crazy, they're crazy. But that disgusting newspaper that's right there, The Washington Post, declared the campaign to impeach President Trump has just begun.  All right, you can get them out. Be gentle, be gentle, be very gentle. You know, every time I say get them out of here. I end up getting sued. He says oh, gee, they hurt my arm. All right, so be very gentle, please. I don't want to get sued. Be very gentle, very, very gentle. He's going home to mom. Thank you. By the way, do we love our law enforcement? And in the whole world, even on a Monday night, you know, I like Monday nights, because I think we're 58 and zero. That's a good record. Even for the Wildcats, that's a good -- we're 58 and zero, but even on a Monday night, is there anything cooler than being at a Trump rally? Nothing cooler. With last week's vote, the far left has declared war on American democracy itself. These people are lunatics. In the face of these attacks, Republicans are the most unified that I've ever seen and I've been watching them and been a big part of them for a long time, and the Democrats have never witnessed anything like it. And they know, they're not going to win in 2020. So, let's see, what can we do to win? But that's not working too well, you'll see. The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes, slander. The Democrats' outrageous conduct has created an angry majority that will vote the Do-nothing Democrats the hell out of office soon.  Tomorrow, Kentucky has a chance to send the radical Democrats a message. You will vote to reject the Democrats extremism, socialism, and corruption, and you will vote to re-elect Kentucky Governor, Matt Bevin, who's done a great job. Matt's a veteran, he's a patriot, he's done it all, he's been a very, very successful business leader. He put his whole life at stake to help this state and the job he's done is incredible. Under his leadership, Kentucky has created over 57,000 new jobs, but I helped also, we worked together. Now, he is difficult. I have to say, you know, maybe because of the election. But it's OK. Here, look, he's such a pain when he needs something for Kentucky, like, money, like aid, like he wants me to call one of the many manufacturers now that are coming into Kentucky. Could you call the head of some company in Japan, please, I say, Matt, do I have to do it? Please, please, but isn't that really what you want in a Governor? That's what you want. He's such a pain in the ass, but that's what you want. And the job he's done, one of the best in the country, not the best, he's been incredible. Matt is so strong on crime and tough on illegal immigration. Thank you. He's pro-worker, pro-life, and 100% pro-Second Amendment. And by the way, you're going to lose your Second Amendment if you vote in a Democrat. You think I'm kidding, I see what they're saying, I watch what they're doing, they're calling me all the time, you will lose your Second Amendment as soon -- I'm telling you. As sure as you're standing here. So, anybody sitting -- nobody ever sits. You can sit if you want -- nah, just stand. You know what they say? The fact is, look, you've been standing, nobody sat, I don't know, is it that exciting? Nobody said you know what they say? No, you know what they say? They say, Trump only got one standing ovation because they stood at the beginning and they never sat down, but they don't say the second part. It's great, great, great spirit. You know why? You love our country, and you see what's happening. We have turned this big monstrous ship, we have turned it around, and we need so badly. You know, it's like you plant a tree. It takes a lot -- we have to get those roots to hold. We have the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country. So many things, so many things, the best employment numbers. We have the best of everything and I think, I'm going to count, but I think it's like 118. I told you, we have a record stock market today. I think about 100 -- I'm going to have to check it, because, you know, with the fake news, if I'm off by a half a point, if it's 117 and not 118, even if I go under they report it. They say, he didn't tell the truth. It was really 119, but I like a lot over 100, where we had the highest stock market in our history. Think of that, that's incredible, but Matt Bevin has made-record investments and education spending for Kentucky students. Education is so important to them. Matt Bevin will defend your Kentucky values. He loves his state. From an all-out assault being waged on you from the extreme left, not good. I can't even imagine, how can you vote for somebody from the extreme left? You know this guy, Beshear is a major lefty. You know that, right? Why are we even -- let's just have a good time. Are you sure we need an election tomorrow, Matt? I don't know. How does Kentucky vote for a person -- I'm telling you. He will always vote for Pelosi and Schumer and shifty Schiff. How about this guy? How about Schiff? He makes up a conversation, he gets up before the United States Congress. He repeats my conversation with the head of the Ukraine, the new President, a good guy, repeats it. I said I never said that. He made a horrible statement. It was a total lie, and then, I actually went and released the actual conversation, and you haven't heard about the whistleblower after that. Have you? Because the whistleblower said lots of things that weren't so good, folks. You're going to find out. But these are very dishonest people, shifty Schiff, but Matt's running against these people, and we have to send them aside because they're dangerous. The radical left's named Andy Beshear, who rejects everything, Kentucky stands for. That's who they want to win.  Beshear, has openly pledged to stop the policies of Donald Trump. What are the policies? Take care of our vets, take care of our military. We want jobs. We want companies to stop leaving us. They're not leaving anymore. You see, companies aren't leaving anymore. Have you noticed? Remember years ago, before I ever thought of doing this, I mean, when I said let's do this. I said to great, now First Lady, I said, Melania. Let's give it a shot, and then, one by one, we were doing good. And what we've done, if you remember, before we ran, companies were leaving Kentucky, they were leaving, they were going to Mexico. They were going to China, Japan. They were going all over, any place but Kentucky. You don't read about that at all. Now, they're all coming back. They're all coming back. But Beshear wants to shut down your coal, shut down your energy, raise your taxes and take a giant wrecking ball to the greatest economy in the history of the state of Kentucky. The greatest economy you've ever had, he's going to destroy it, and it won't be long. It'll go very quickly, you know, you're all sitting there. Everybody has good jobs, you don't like it. You go find another job. It's like the choice I got for military. I got you your choice too. If you don't like your job, you find another. When you tell the boss, hey, I'm getting out of here, I don't like this. You go get a better job for more money. Beshear doesn't represent you. He represents the Washington swamp and he's backed by the same people trying to overthrow the last election. Beshear supported crooked Hillary Clinton, and he's funded by the pro-abortion lobby and open borders fanatics. Open borders, let everyone pour right in.  Let them all pour right in. Beshear wants to bring sanctuary cities to Kentucky. Think of that one, releasing violent criminals and aliens to terrorize innocent Kentucky families. He wants sanctuary cities, he hasn't learned what's happened. You know, we had a great election, a couple of weeks ago in North Carolina, we won two House seats. We were supposed to lose, probably both of them, and we won them by a lot. We won them by a lot, and I think, we won them because of the Second Amendment, because it's under assault from democrats, but I think, we won also because of sanctuary cities, because some bad news came out of sanctuary cities, really bad. And I think, that was a reason we won both House seats by a lot. Beshear is too liberal, too extreme, and too dangerous for the state of Kentucky. Tomorrow, everybody needs to vote, Republican. We got to go Republican all the way. And I want to bring up a man and I'm serious about this. This guy worked so hard. He's a great natural talent in business, which you needed, and he straightened it out and I'll tell you what, he will be one of the truly greats in the history, and maybe, the greatest in the history of this state, Matt Bevin, Come on up, Matt. How do you like having President Trump in Rupp Arena? This is better. This is better than the final four, I'll tell you what, in terms of energy, this is extraordinary. Thank you, Kentucky. It is critical that we go top to bottom, run the slate, vote straight Republican, but do your civic duty. Let's get out and vote. Let's send a message to Washington, to the other states, to the United States of America that Kentucky is leading the way, and that we support the President of the United States, Donald J. Trump. So, we're also joined tonight by a very powerful man in Washington. Your great Senator, Mitch McConnell. Nobody works harder for Kentucky than Mitch. I will tell you, nobody works harder, and frankly, maybe more importantly, nobody works smarter. It's up here. I know a lot of people that work hard, he works smart. When the Democrat arsonist in Washington tried to destroy an innocent man named Brett Kavanaugh, now, just as Brett Kavanaugh, Mitch refused to cave to the left-wing mob and that's what it was. It was a mob. There has never been a man treated so badly in Washington, as Judge Kavanaugh. Previously judge, now, Justice. We got him in and he's been great, and he will be great. Mitch confirmed to tremendous Supreme Court Justices. Mitch helped deliver the largest ever investment in our military and past VA choice and VA accountability for our amazing veterans. Now, I know Mitch's opponent because I came here -- do you remember last year? Slightly different location, no, that's OK. It was still the great state of Kentucky because Andy Barr had Amy McGrath, an extreme Liberal against him.  And Andy Barr is here with us tonight and we're going to introduce him, but he'd beat her. So, she said to herself. You know I failed in Congress. Now, let's go for the Senate, she wanted to go to the House. Now, she wants to go -- it's not going to work that way, extreme Liberal, anti-gun, lots of different things. Amy McGrath compared my election, think of this one, it's so insulting. I shouldn't say, should I say it? Yeah. Why not? No, it's so insulting. You know, you work so hard. You love your country so much and they get up and say things. She compared it to 9/11, a slander upon our nation. She wants open borders. She supports the impeachment hoax witch hunt like nobody. Yeah, she wants to get rid of me. She wasn't too happy with me last year. We came in Andy and we did a job on her, and this is going to be easy, and she was caught telling donors, Democrats that she is further left than anyone in the history of the state of Kentucky.  It's not what you want. No, so next November, the state needs to defend its values and vote for a rock-ribbed Kentucky Conservative, Mitch McConnell, but we're going to get back to that later. We'll be back many times, we'll be back here many times, Mitch. Well, thank you, Mr. President, for making America great again, and Matt Bevin is making Kentucky great again. Thanks for your help tonight. In working together, we're changing the federal courts forever. Nobody's done more to change the court system in the history of our country than Donald Trump. And Mr. President, we're going to keep on doing it, my motto is: leave no vacancy behind. So, President Obama left Mitch and me and Rand, and all of us, he left 142 openings to the judges. You're not supposed to allow any. You don't do that, you know, they say the most important thing a President can do is federal judges, right? Including the Supreme Court, obviously. And I came in and I said, how many do we have? And they said, how many what, sir? I said judge openings, and I thought they'd say none or one or two. He said, sir, we have 142. I said what? I said tell me again. He said we have 142. So, Mitch and I, and Rand would like to thank very much, President Obama, because nobody has ever been so generous than him. Also, with us tonight is a great warrior and a great guy, smart, strong, loves your state, and he's really become a good friend of mine. And I'll tell you, he's a little bit different, it's OK. But whenever I've needed him, whenever I needed him, he was always there. It's true. I mean sometimes, like I'd say, I don't need your vote Rand. Good. Then, he'll vote his own way. He's got that little Libertarian touch, that's OK, that's OK. But whenever we need -- and I'm not talking about me -- I'm talking about we -- we need a vote. He's so incredible and he's become a really good friend, and I want to have him come up for a second. Rand Paul, your senator, a great warrior. President Trump has great courage. He faces down the fake media every day, but Congress needs to step up and have equal courage to defend the President. Hunter Biden made $50,000 a month. That's the definition of corruption. We know he got it only because of his family connections. We also now know the name of the whistleblower. The whistleblower needs to come before Congress, as a material witness, because he worked for Joe Biden. At the same time, Hunter Biden was getting money from corrupt oligarchs. I say tonight to the media, do your job and print his name. And I say this to my fellow colleagues in Congress to every Republican in Washington, step up and subpoena Hunter Biden, and subpoena the whistleblower. And I say to my colleagues if shifty Schiff will not let Hunter Biden come and if you will not bring the whistleblower forward, every Republican in Congress should take a walk and say this is a farce. Wow, that was excellent. Wow, thank you. Very Thank you very much Rand. Great job. He's a warrior. He's a warrior. I have always said it. Also with us tonight are representatives from your state that are a fantastic, a couple from outside your state, but we'll welcome them also, right? But these are also great fighters, great warriors, Hal Rogers, Brett Guthrie. Thank you, Brett. Thomas Massie. Man, we just spoke about what a great race Andy Barr, James Colber, and from an incredible state that we won 2016, that crooked Hillary said, she's going to win that state, didn't come too close at winning that state. It's a great state and we love the people of North Carolina, Congressman Mark Meadows, along with some of your local, great politicians, and a person that's done a really spectacular job -- you know in Michigan, a woman she just kept going. She just kept going, reminded me by the way, of your Governor from the standpoint, she never quit. Now, Republicans hadn't won Michigan in many, many years. She'd call, could you come again? Could you do it again? Could you come make another speech, please? I said all right, this will be the last one. No, no, no, how about a couple of more. And then, Bill Clinton actually told Hillary Clinton, you better get going. Something is going on in Michigan. You're going to lose Michigan, you better stop going. No, no, no, the polls say everything's good, and we won the great state of Michigan for the first time in many years. And I said when it came time to pick in the Republican Party Chair, Head of the RNC, I said I got to get the woman from Michigan, Ronna McDaniel to head it all. And when they were saying how sophisticated Hillary Clinton's campaign was, you know, we're not sophisticated, right? I don't think still. Remember we were all doing to get -- well, she's got the finest computer technology in the world. Yeah, she paid for it, but she didn't get it. She has really fantastic geniuses, but I had somebody that was a lot better than the people that she had, and his name was Brad Parscale, and he's here with us. Campaign -- what a great job and our numbers are looking very good. But think of it. We're one day short of a year now, can you believe it? Less than a year it begins, November 3rd, this time. We had that great, great date, oh, boy November 8th, remember? Was there ever a day like that in television history? And they have no idea because when we do hang it up, they're all out of business, they know that. That's why I think that we will get -- I expect to get a full hearty unbelievable endorsement very soon from the fairly New York Times, and from the Amazon Washington Post. You know, before the election started, about a month before I announced that I was going to do this. I said I'm going to become a politician. I can't believe it. I'm going to become a politician, but I looked at the New York Times and it was like a little leaflet that you handed out at a grocery store, right? The wind would blow it away. It was dead. I call it the failing New York Times only because eventually it will fail, but we built it up. They do stories -- in my entire life I had a few stories on the front page of The New York Times, and now, of -- I have three or four a day, it's like, why are they not covering me anymore? And they're all bad. They only -- they can take what we did two weeks ago with the number one terrorist in the world and they make it look as bad as possible. In fact, I love dogs, but they gave the dog full credit. They didn't give me any credit nut that's OK. The dog got the credit and the dog will be coming very shortly, by the way, to the White House. But they'll be endorsing us, and you know, all of these crazy, like CNN, with its bad ratings. There goes, its red light just went off, the red light just went off, CNN. Well, it's hard, look, put yourself in their position. They have it on, their covering, and now, they know they're ready to get hit. So then, they turn it off. I mean, I can't blame -- no, the red light just went off. No, but put yourself in CNN's position, without us, you know, cable was not supposed to be a good business. Then we came along. It's not me, it's we. They came from the valleys. They came from everywhere. The cities, they came from places, they're still trying to figure out where the hell that all those people come from? It's true. A great Senator from Tennessee, they have early voting, and I was in Pennsylvania making a speech, and he saw me because he had a couple of great Congressman friends from Pennsylvania, and he said you know, in Tennessee, we have very early voting, and I just left and I've been doing this for 24 years -- and I've got to be honest with you. I've never seen so many people vote and these are people. They love our country, they're incredible, they work hard, but they never liked what they were voting for. So, they really wouldn't vote. It sounds terrible, but they didn't like anything that they saw. They say, sir, I'm seeing people -- and he said this, come out from the valleys, come out from the mountains, come out from areas that they've never come out. We have lines that are five blocks long at every voting, booth, and parlor, and he said, I can't speak for the rest of the country, but if the rest of the country's like Tennessee, you're going to have the greatest victory in the history of our nation, and that's what happened. That was a great statement. That was a great statement from people from a great state also. Tomorrow, you must elect the entire Republican ticket from Governor on down, including your next Lieutenant Governor, Ralph Alvarado, Ralph Alvarado, he's a good man. And your next Attorney General, Daniel Cameron. Should I bring Daniel up? Get up here, Daniel. He is a star. He is a star. Mr. President, I hope you can tell that Kentucky is Trump country. We are proud to stand with you on pro-life issues in here in the Commonwealth. We are going to stand up for those who cannot speak for themselves, and Mr. President, we are going to stand with you in protecting the Second Amendment rights of all Kentuckians, and Mr. President, I make a personal commitment to you as the next Attorney General. We are going to make sure that Kentucky is never a sanctuary state. Thank you. Good. Thank you, Daniel. A star, a star is born. A star is born. Do you ever see that movie? A star is born. Thank you, Daniel. Your next Secretary of State, Michael Adams. Auditor, Mike Harmon. Thank you, Mike. Treasurer, Allison Ball, she's doing great, and Agriculture Commissioner, Ryan Quarles. With the help of everyone here, America is the hottest economy anywhere in the world by far. Foreign leaders come in to see me, congratulations on your economy, China's doing poorly, as you know, but they're paying us billions and billions and billions of dollars and they've never given us 10 cents before, billions of dollars. They gave a lot of that money to our farmers, who got targeted, but no longer. They're back buying from our farmers. But we've created 6.7 million new jobs since the election, and if I would have ever said that during the campaign, the fake news back there would have never let me hear the end of it. Think of that 6.7 million, and today, just today, a record 158 million Americans are now employed. The highest level of employment in our country's history. African-American unemployment just dropped to the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country. Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment rates have also reached the all-time historic lows, in the history of our country. Hourly earnings, listen to this, are up 9% since the election. Nobody ever thought that was going to be happening. Under the previous two administrations, we lost 60,000 factories. I thought that was a typo. I said how the hell can you lose 60,000? It turned out to be right, and you know how I know? Because I've been saying it for two years, and they never corrected me, two years. I get a call sometimes from the people on the campaign, sir, sir, we have an emergency. What's the emergency, somebody is calling from the media, fake news. Did you put a comma in the wrong location, sir? Because they consider it to be a front-page story. OK. Under my administration, we've added nearly 10,000 new factories, and many, many more thousands of factories are coming into our country. We'll reverse it. To get relief to working families, we passed massive tax cuts, massive. To lift up distressed communities, our tax laws created opportunity zones. Tim Scott of South Carolina was so involved, including 144 designated by your great Governor, by the way, the other Governor, I don't think, well, I don't know. They're not going to do so well. He'll be calling for a meeting, and I won't be able to see him because I don't like him very much, but I like this one very much and we're going to help. We slashed a record number of job-killing regulations. We ended the war on American energy, we're now the largest producer of energy anywhere in the world by far. And we ended the war on beautiful, clean coal. I announced the withdrawal of the United States from the horrible, costly, one-sided Paris climate accord. Ask them how they're doing in Paris with it? Not too good. I canceled the so-called Clean Power Plan and repealed Obama's federal coal moratorium. We're putting our great miners back to work. On trade, we're starting to set records every week, we're reversing decades of Washington, disloyalty, stupidity, and corruption. Past administrations did nothing, as China looted our factories and stole up to $500 billion of American dollars -- By the way, people can't even believe it, not five hundred million. That's a lot if you lost five hundred million, that's a lot. I thought that was another typo, $500 billion, they would take a year from us. We rebuilt China, and I give them a lot of credit by the way, I give China. What I don't give credit to is Obama and past administrations beyond Obama. I don't give them credit because they let it happen. They should have never let it happen, but now, we're taking in tens of billions and billions and billions of dollars. Just recently, very slow, sleepy Joe Biden that is, said if China's piracy and plunder -- they're not that bad, folks. He always use the word, folks. I watched him today, he used the word, folks. Hi, folks. Hi, "
"Well, thank you very much and hello Tupelo. This is great to be with you tonight, the great state of Mississippi, the great state of Mississippi, and by the way, the birthplace of a gentleman, not too many people heard of him, Elvis Presley. But to be with thousands of incredible patriots who put their faith in God, family, and country. Four days from now, this state will head to the polls and vote to continue our extraordinary progress with your next Governor, Republican Tate Reeves. Great guy. Under Republican leadership, jobs are booming, confidence is soaring, wages are rising, crime is falling, and our nation is stronger than ever before. We're now an economic powerhouse. We've never been in a position like it, we've rebuilt our military, and we have financial strength. And by the way, for those of you with a thing called 401(k)s, the stock market hit today another all-time historic high. Unemployment in Mississippi has reached the lowest rate ever recorded, ever recorded. That's not bad. That's not bad. When you're on the debate stage -- and you say we have the best economy we've ever had, we have the best military we've ever had, the best unemployment and employment numbers we've ever had. He said the best President we've ever had. Thank you.  Thank you very much. And very importantly, we've confirmed more than 158 brand new beautiful federal judges to uphold our Constitution as written. In a very short while, we'll have 182 federal judges. President Obama left us 142. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President Obama. He left us 142 openings. Can you believe that? You're supposed to leave none when you leave office, but that didn't work out too well. And just days ago, the United States brought the world's number one terrorist leader to justice.  We have great military. It was very, very depleted. When I came into office it was very, very depleted, but it ain't depleted anymore. Al Baghdadi, the founder, and leader -- look, you know, you've heard about him for a long time. I kept saying: where is al Baghdadi, that's the one I want. Where is he? And then, by the way, the following day we got number two. I don't know if you read about that, but he was the founder and the leader of ISIS, and he's dead. And Baghdadi, he was a savage and soulless monster, but his reign of terror is over. American special operators executed a masterful raid that ended his wretched life and punched out his ticket to hell. I guess you could say. He spent his last miserable moments on earth, cowering and trembling, and crying in fear of the American warrior that was right there, going right up. No enemy stands a chance against the righteous might of the United States military. And Mississippi loves our military, that I can tell you, and our military loves Mississippi. America is winning again and America is all over the world, respected again. It's about time. But while we're creating jobs and killing terrorists, the Democrat Party has gone completely insane.  The radical left is determined to transform America into a country you would not recognize. We are the ones standing in their way and we will never get out of their way. It will be easy. From even before we won the election, the far-left Democrats and the fake news media, right back there. Look at all of them. Oh.  It's too bad we didn't get such good ratings because if we didn't, they wouldn't be here. Look at how many. It's like the Academy Awards before it failed, right? And do you know why it failed? Because they disrespected us. But the media and the Democrats have been engaged in a corrupt partnership trying to impose their will and to thwart American democracy by any means necessary. You see what's going on. First, they engineered the Russia hoax. That was a total hoax. The single greatest lies ever foisted upon the American people. Then, the Muller witch hunt. It never ended. With 18 angry Democrats and an unlimited budget. Let's go get him. That didn't work out too well, did it? That fizzled. And a lot of bad people along the way. And now, corrupt politicians, Nancy Pelosi  and shifty Adam Schiff, shifty, and the media are continuing with the deranged impeachment witch hunt. This is one I never thought I'd be involved in. The word impeachment to me, it's a dirty word, not a good word, totally phony deal, they know it, everybody knows it. And that's why we've never had greater support than we have right now. It's true. It's true. And if you think you have a lot of people in this room, all you have to do is go outside. You'll see a lot more people trying to get in. So, if anybody wants to give up your seat, please just walk out -- anybody wants to leave? Because there really is, there's no place better to have a rally, to have a good time, and also, at the same time, be very serious, than at a Trump rally, especially on Friday night in Mississippi. We could have done this one on a Monday night, I said let's do Friday, right? Friday. Yesterday, the Democrats voted to potentially nullify the votes of 63 million Americans disgracing themselves and bringing shame upon the House of Representatives.  They've been plotting to overthrow the election since the moment I won. But the people here that are highly sophisticated, know long before, I won. 19 minutes after I took the oath of office, the horrible newspaper, fake, fake, fake Washington Post, declared the campaign to impeach President Trump has just begun. At least they gave us 19 minutes. Yesterday's vote by the radical Democrats is an attack on Democracy itself. But I'll tell you, the Republicans are really strong. The strongest I've ever seen them. The most unified I've ever seen them. The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes, and extremism. The Democrats' outrageous conduct has created an angry majority that will vote many do-nothing Democrats out of office in 2020. Make no mistake. They are coming after the Republican Party and me because I'm fighting for you, they don't like it, this is different. They've never had anything like this. Well, they've never had an election like 2016 either, have they? They've never had. They've never quite figured it out. And they know they can't win. So, let's try and impeach him. How about that crazy Representative Al Green, right? You know, we've got to impeach him because we can't beat him. I don't think so, right? I don't think so. Al Green, he's another beauty. The Democrats, the media, and the deep state are desperate to stop us. And it's not me, it's us, it's all of us. It's 63 million but it's much more than 63 million, much more, and right now, our numbers are higher than they've ever been before. So, you know if they've never been -- they've never been this. But they want to stop us because they know we are here and that's what we're doing, and that's what's taken up so much time. We're draining the swamp in Washington. Nothing terrifies Democrats more than the fact that all of their spying, spying. They actually spied on my campaign. Can you believe it? I mean, you know, they try to say well, we were actually just checking things out. Oh, that's wonderful. The lying, the falsifying over the past three years. Plus, before I ever even announced they were spying. I guess, they knew we were going to win, right? But over that past more than three years is finally being exposed. And remember this, the truth is a force of nature. Desperate to conceal their misdeeds, the Democrats are now attacking us for calling out the grave corruption of the Bidens. Just like they melted down when we pointed out crooked Hillary's shocking and very many misdeeds. 33,000 e-mails, 33,000 e-mails disappeared, but she said they only had to do with her working out and her daughter's wedding.  She's a beauty. How about last week, did you hear? I don't know who Tulsi Gabbard is, but I know one thing, she's, not an agent of Russia. And Jill Stein, she's a greenie, that's fine. We love the environment, everybody in this room. You know right now, we have the cleanest air and the cleanest water that we've ever had, and yet, we're No. 1 in the world in energy by far. We took over. But I don't know Jill Stein, she ran last time. I don't know, but I know she's not an agent of Russia. And when Hillary made those statements, two statements, both of them, they work for Russia, they're agents of Russia. I said you know when she made that statement about me three years ago, it took me two years to get out of that hoax statement. She made it about them, everybody laughed because of what we proved. But I'll tell you what, these are very bad people. These are very dishonest people, and the media is worse than all of them. But think about the preposterous hoax the Democrats are now trying to peddle. I've just beaten with no political -- look, look, we didn't have too much political experience. I did a good job. Built lots of buildings all over the place, had great success in show business, just did one show it's called The Apprentice and it was a big success, 14 seasons. And when I left, Crazy Arnold took over. It didn't do too well. It was dead. It was dead from the first episode. I saw him. I said, oh, it's terrible. What have they done to this beautiful show, Arnold? But think of it. I've just beaten with no political experience, the Clinton dynasty, the Bush dynasty, the President Barack-Hussein-Obama dynasty , and President Obama worked harder at defeating me than crooked Hillary Clinton did, right? He was all over the place. The only time I've actually seen him work hard when it came to trying to beat Trump. It's true. Remember he said, remember he said, he will not be President. Well, that didn't work out so well. And then, they figured they could take us out a different way, very dishonestly, right? With the lying, and the spying, and the leaking, and we are kicking their ass, I'll tell you. In the delusional Democrat fantasy, I'm now supposed to be afraid of someone called 1% Joe. I used to call him 1% because he could never get 1% percent in the primaries. Then, he got brought out by Obama out of the trash heap, became Vice President, but we've now named him very slow sleepy Joe, very slow, he's gotten slower and slower. I'm afraid if he gets the nomination, he'll be so slow. We'll have the lowest-rated debates in history, as opposed to the highest-rated debates in history, against crooked Hillary. In fact, I don't even think that sleepy Joe will get it, but many people are running. So, you know, it's so early. I don't want to talk about their campaign. Oh, did you hear Beto, Beto? Oh, that poor bastard. Well. Poor, pathetic guy. He was pathetic. Remember the arms are flailing. It's all -- remember that -- you know, he ran against Ted Cruz. Ted Cruz won. He spent almost $100 million, and Ted Cruz and I helped Ted, and we campaigned together, and it was good, but I used to watch him. Then, when he came on to the really big stage, this crazy stage, I noticed he was flailing with the arms and he was standing on tables, he was standing on countertops. I said does he ever, like, stand on the floor and speak? But he's waving his arms and going crazy, and I said what the hell is he doing? What is he on? And you remember he made the statement that he was born for this. Anybody that says, he was born for this, they're in trouble. You know, I used to have guys come into my office, sir, I'm the greatest salesman. Nobody can sell -- you know, the truth is, anybody that says they're a great salesman, usually, they're, not a very good salesman. It's true. It's those sneaky ones in the back that don't talk, but you don't know about -- they're the ones. But Beto was nasty and he said that he was born for it. Like he was born from heaven and he came down. And if that's the case, some really bad things happened because he made a total fool out of himself. And he came out of Texas, the great state of Texas. He came out of Texas, a very hot political property and he went back as cold as you can be. So, he was a nasty guy. But he had a couple of policies that don't work well in the state of Texas, right? He was against religion, he was against you having a gun , and he was against oil. So, you come from Texas, you don't like religion, you don't like oil, and you don't have guns. I don't know, that's not a good combination in the state of Texas. That's not good in Mississippi either. I don't know is that good -- is that good anyway. Now, he went back home to Texas, and hopefully, we won't be hearing about him for a long time. It's amazing how cold you can get so quickly, but he was a nasty guy. But in the twisted -- oh, Alabama. I love Alabama, I love Alabama. It's a great place. But in the very twisted and corrupt world of Adam Schiff, after beating the entire political establishment, and that means Bush, and that means Clinton, and that means Obama. They have me supposedly saying to myself. Well, let's see, I got a guy named sleepy Joe Biden. How do I beat him? How do I beat him? How do I beat this guy? He's such a great -- Clinton, she was easy, right? Obama was easy. The Bush dynasty was easy, but sleepy Joe I'm worried about, right? So then, I said to myself, gee, I guess, there's only one way. Let's call up Ukraine for help. These people are sick. These people are sick. Now, these dishonest people will take the last little sliver and the first little sliver, and they'll put it because they're so damned dishonest, and they'll say let's use Ukraine for help. That's what they're going to say. And they won't show the  , and they won't show the sarcasm, and they won't show the fun because they're the most dishonorable people, almost, on Earth. It's a disgrace.  But we say it anyway. And here's the good news, the people get it. So, they have a brand new President in Ukraine, good guy by the way. And I call a brand new President, a man, I have no idea who he is. And I'm on a phone, right, and I know many people are on the phone because when you call the leaders of a country, many people listen. And I'm on the phone, and they want me to say to this brand new President, he just got there, call to congratulate him. Please, could you help me, please? I don't know who he is. I didn't know his name until I looked down the card, I see, and he's a nice guy. And hopefully, he's going to root out corruption because Ukraine has tremendous corruption problems. And hopefully, -- and one of the reasons I held up money, very important, corruption. But the other reason, why isn't Germany and France and U.K., and all of these European nations that are right there, why aren't they doing things that they're supposed to do? Why is it always the United States? So, I made this call, had this wonderful call, and the transcript proves it was, as I said, perfect. It was perfect. It wasn't like, almost, it was perfect. It was totally appropriate. I made it at the behest of people to say, could you call and say hello. Now, I'm an honest person anyway, but do you think when I'm making a call to a newly elected President of a country that I would say something improper? When I know there are so many people listening on the line, and many people. All of these people, you had the Secretary of State Pompeo, a great guy. He's listening. You had transcribers, fortunately. You had policy experts, junior age, low-level staffers, probably . Whoever wants to listen, they listen, and they have me making some kind of a deal with all these people. And remember, the new President of Ukraine is speaking to the United States of America. The President, I guarantee he's got a lot of people listening too. These people are sick. So, corrupt politician, shifty Adam Schiff, actually stood before Congress and stood before the American people, and made up a conversation that he said I had with the Ukrainian President, unfortunately.  Now, think of it. And many people saw that and it was a terrible -- he said terrible things. The President of Ukraine said it was a very good conversation. There was no pressure, his foreign minister said the same thing, no pressure. They must think we're nuts, to be honest. It's all a phony deal. This whole impeachment scam to try to undermine the 2020 election and to delegitimatize one of the greatest elections. Maybe the greatest -- I mean, let's give George Washington credit, but everybody expected he was going to win, that we've ever had. So, my phone call, which was totally perfect and appropriate, and if you want to read the transcript, you see how perfect it was, but they don't quit. But what you should do is take a look at the behavior of sleepy Joe. So, I quote, I said -- let me act like him. I've got to speak really slow, though, and I said you're not getting a billion. I looked at them and I said, I'm leaving in six hours. If the prosecutor isn't fired, you're, not getting the money, you understand? You're not getting the money. Then, he goes at the end, I didn't know he had this kind of energy. He goes, well, son of a bitch, he got fired. You know in a certain way, I was impressed because I mean, I didn't think he had the energy, the brainpower. It's turned out he doesn't. By the way, he's dropping like a rock. You know, when you're at 1% there's always a reason. He should be there fairly, sir. As you know, the Ukrainian prosecutor that Biden got fired after threatening to withhold -- I think it was $1 billion or something -- and it was the prosecutor investigating his son's company that was paying Hunter Biden, a guy that just got thrown out of the Navy. He was paying them millions of dollars, even though, working for an energy company, he had no experience with energy. He knew less about it than this young -- how old are you? Six, this young beautiful person in front of me. [Audience member calls out ""Go, Donald, go""]Six and this young 6-year old is smarter. So, I think I'd basically go with her. So, what is it all about? It's called a payoff. But you know what? The fake news they apologized. I watched this horrible guy who gets lousy ratings, Anderson Cooper  Well, the hatred. I mean between him and Fredo, you get Fredo. That's Cuomo -- Fredo. I call him Fredo like from the movie. Now, I watched Anderson Cooper and I watched him apologize for even asking the question to Biden. The good news is Biden didn't know too much about what the hell he was talking about. Remember Biden said I don't know these people. I don't know him. I don't know him. He never spoke to his son about getting millions of dollars. No, he never spoke to him. He didn't happen to speak to him. Think of this. We're dealing with life, right? He never spoke to him. Unfortunately, the next day, you know in the world of the Internet, in the world of smart people. That's why I like Beto, he wasn't smart, couldn't handle it. I told my wife, I said see, it's not so easy. I told our great First Lady tonight, who people love, they love her. When Beto quit like -- he quit like a dog. When he quit, I said see, people think this is easy. This isn't easy. But -- you know, it worked out that way. But Biden said I never met the people, never met the gentleman. Unfortunately, in about 10 seconds, a picture came out where they're playing golf together, but he never met him. So now, you'll ask him he said, no, we played a round of golf. We were together for three hours. I never mentioned the fact that they're paying my son millions, no, no, no, but the press protects them. Watch this crazy Anderson Cooper, third rate, lousy ratings, third-rate person. But listen, CNN, the worst. I mean the worst, the worst.  Oh, their light just went off, see? What -- the light was on, they just -- they don't like it. You know it's tough. Your fake CNN --  No, it's tough. I tried not to do that because I see their light on. You know, when that light goes on that means you're live. No, that means you're live, and every time -- it's tough. Look, in all fairness, they're putting it on, it's a broadcast, very few people are -- well, they might be watching us, I guess they do watch us. But here's the thing, and then, you have the guy up there saying that they're fake. That they're no good, that they're liars and cheaters, that they're phonies. It's hard to be broadcasting that when you're talking about the network that has you on, right? So, we understand. The lights off. And then remember this, Anderson Cooper, what a beauty. He used to interview me. He was so nice. Prior to running for politics, he was so nice to me. It was like they were love fests, but I don't want anything to do with him. They were love fests, so what a thought. He's weak. He's a weak person but they're all weak. But let me just -- let me just tell you something. We need honesty with our media. We need honesty. Because the New York Times, The Washington Post, and by the way, I don't know you probably read it -- we throw him out of the White House, we don't show him anymore. If somebody wants to go and buy, we throw him out. And they came into my office, and then, I get -- I got to get back to this guy. Where's Hunter? Where's Hunter? You know we had a T-shirt made where's Hunter? Where's Hunter? Poor Hunter. He then came out, he did the morning show. That was the last we've seen of Hunter. That wasn't good. The morning of his father's very bad debate, but it's where is Hunter? But before I say the final thing on Hunter, and then, we put him to rest for a while. We got rid of the Washington Post and the failing New York Times. We got rid of them, right? We don't have them in the White House. Now, you people can go out and buy it but we don't. We just have them stacked up -- and I go in and I'd see a meeting with my people, and they're dealing with China, South Korea or somebody, and I'd go in and go into these offices, and see like 10 or 15 of them packed up all over the place. The Washington Post, the New York Times, I keep trying to figure out who's worse, and you know, one day it's the Times and it's the Post. It's like they top each other. They're so bad. It's so phony. It's so -- in my opinion, it's virtually corrupt. I've never seen -- you never have a good story. I mean, even with -- when we got Al Baghdadi, the Washington Post had a story that he was like a great religious cleric. Where did that come from?  The other thing, if Obama would have done it because look, this guy built ISIS, the caliphate. It was the size physically of Ohio, the state of Ohio, the great state of Ohio. That's a big lot of land, 7 million people and they were the ones, the orange jumpsuits. I called a lot of the parents after we did this and I talked to them and they were, how can you be happy? But they were so thrilled that we got this animal. They were so thrilled, but you know what, and you know what, we don't do it -- we do it because it's right. That story was a massive story. That was the biggest, maybe the biggest, one of the biggest ever, bigger than anything. That story disappeared so fast, gone, and that's OK. I didn't do it for the story. I did it because it's the right thing to do, but if that were, if I were a Democrat, if I were a Democrat they'd be talking about that story for weeks. With me, they don't even want to -- you know, they actually played it down, and actually -- and I'm happy about this, Conan the dog, got more publicity than me, and I'm very happy about that. I'm very -- Conan's incredible and Conan's coming to the White House in a few weeks. But it is -- you know -- did you ever see a story disappear so fast? I mean here -- if -- if Obama had that story, that thing would be going on for another seven months. They'd be talking about his bravery, oh, he's so brave, but again, 142 judges he gave us, remember that. How can you be a great -- you know, they always say the most important thing a President can do is federal judges. We got two Supreme Courts, great works, great job, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh, great judges. By the way, did you ever see any human being treated worse than now Justice Kavanaugh? Did anybody ever? Was anybody -- was any human being by these people, these horrible, horrible people that we have to deal with? Anyway, just to finish. So, Hunter then goes to China and I'm dealing with China right now. They don't like me too much. They dream about the day when somebody else -- and would they like to have -- how about this. You give this son, who has zero experience with investing, you give him $1.5 billion to invest, meaning he makes millions and millions of dollars, and the biggest guys on Wall Street can't get it. He walks out with $1.5 billion, and then there are other places also, I understand. Folks, it's disgraceful that the press doesn't cover it for what it is. It's a payoff. It's a payoff. And how would you like to have sleepy Joe with the son getting all of this money from China to become President, and take over the China deal? I -- they are not like me. They had the worst year that they've had in 57 years. Their supply chain is broken up like scrambled eggs, and they want to make a deal because those tariffs have given us millions of dollars and billions now, billions and billions of dollars. We're talking billions and billions of dollars. And you know what we're doing with some of it? Just a small portion but 100% they're taken care of. Our farmers got $16 billion last year and $12 billion a year before because they targeted our farmers. Because they know the farmers love Trump and Trump loves the farmers. So, they targeted them and they brought the $16 billion down to practically nothing and they thought our farmers would say, oh, we don't like Trump. They did just the opposite. They said we know he's doing the right thing because we've been ripped off for so many years. But I said to them, I said to Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, a great guy, I said Sonny, how much did they spend buying our corn and soybeans and all of our agricultural product? He said sir, $16 billion. I said good I'll make it up and we're going to have a lot leftover. So, we will have pretty soon, over $100 billion in money paid into the United States Treasury by a country that never gave us $0.10, they only took, one they only took. So, when I said to the farmers we're going to send you $16 billion that's already been sent that has been split in the $12 billion the year before. I mean think of that, $28 billion, I said compliments of China, and we had a lot leftover. Not bad, right? Not bad. Do you think Obama would do that? I don't think so. Do you think Hillary would do that? I don't think so. Do you think sleepy Joe would do that? I don't think so. He wouldn't know what you're talking about. On Tuesday, the proud people of Mississippi will send Democrats a clear message. It's very important, for this reason, as well as, the fact that you have a great gentleman in your midst. But you have to reject their extremism and their socialism and their corruption. They're corrupt -- Adam Schiff is a corrupt politician. You know, when he made that phony speech where he made up a really horrible speech and said that I said it. I said, oh, I'm going to sue him. They said sir, I'm sorry, you can't. He's got total immunity because he made it in Congress. Can you believe this? But you know, here's the good news. At least we have a forum, we have a place we can talk so everyone knows what's going on. A bunch of phony people. But this is why we have to send a signal, and why you have to make Tate Reeves your great new republic -- right? Republican Governor, right? Tate, he's a great guy too. And all I know is he's loved and respected by your current Governor because Phil is some piece of work. You know Phil is so confident. I wanted Phil to run for a certain office then I wanted him to do something -- I've tried to get him, but you know, some guys are confident. Phil said, no, sir, I've been doing this all my life. I love the people. He built the most beautiful African-American museum, Phil. He's the greatest. But he built the most beautiful-- but he's got confidence. And he said, no, sir, I've been doing it. I don't really want to do that. In other words, he said that's enough. Most people are so insecure, they keep going and going and going. It's not good. I like Phil's attitude, but Phil is great, but I'm going to introduce Phil in a second. But Tate Reeves who Phil endorses and views as a champion for your state, and really a champion for Mississippi values. And Tate helped cut your taxes over 50 times, including the largest tax cut in Mississippi history. Tate is pro-worker, he's pro-jobs, he's pro-family, he's pro-life. Tate is a true leader in the fight to protect the unborn, which the other side is not. Tate Reeves will support our police, oppose sanctuaries -- oh, we love our police, right? I love -- we love our police. He'll oppose sanctuary cities, which is just terrible, they're terrible, and Tate will always defend your Second Amendment. So, Tate's running against a Liberal Democrat named Jim Hood.  Now what I know about Jim Hood is he fought very hard to elect crooked Hillary Clinton and Barack-Hussein-Obama. Isn't that nice?  He wanted Obama to win so badly, and then, he wanted Hillary to win, and that's not the kind of guy we need here, not in Mississippi. He's supported by extreme lefties, like Stacey Abrams, who by the way, went down to defeat in front of a terrific gentleman from the great state of Georgia, Brian Kemp. And they came in with -- oh, they brought them all. They had President Obama, they had Michelle Obama, they had Oprah Winfrey, they came in, and all he had was Donald Trump, and we won. We won. Fairly easily. But Stacey Abrams wants to give illegal aliens the right to vote. Do you believe this?  I mean, some of these people, they want to give them education, they want to give them this, they want to give them free healthcare. They want to give these people that come into our country illegally, more advantages than our own citizens have, more advantages than our own military has.  Jim Hood wants to raise your taxes. He supports taxpayer funding for abortion providers.  He supports illegal immigration and all benefits, and he opposed our travel ban, which is so important that we won in the United States Supreme Court to keep terrorists the hell out of our country. And Jim Hood went to the United Nations and opposed your right to self-defense. If you don't want a far-left Democrat running Mississippi -- wait a minute. How's this guy, you know, I can't believe this is a competitive race. It's like embarrassing. I'm talking to Mississippi you know. I'm talking to Mississippi. I can't believe it. I don't think that he's going to be the right guy. I think the guy that you want is Tate Reeves. He's going to be fantastic. He will be a great, great Governor. Tate, come on up, Tate. Thank you, Mr. President. Mississippi welcomes you because Mississippi is Donald J. Trump country. We gave you almost 60% of vote in 2016 and next year we're going to do even better, and the reason is because President Trump is a strong leader. He is the right leader to defeat the radical Liberals who have taken over the Democrat Party. Now, these radical Liberals have been trying to remove our President from office since the very day he was sworn in.  They have disrespected him and that means they have disrespected us. Jim Hood does not spend -- stand with our President. He stands with the radical Liberals. When the radical Liberals tried to stop the President on border security, Jim Hood stood with the Liberals. [Audience member calls out ""Build the wall""] When the choice was Donald J. Trump, our crooked Hillary, Jim Hood, stood with Hillary Clinton. And today, with the election just days away, I'm standing with President Donald Trump and Jim -- and Jim Hood is standing with the Liberals. Now Mississippi, it is time to choose. It is time to stand up and be counted. Are we going to stand with President Donald Trump?  Are you going to stand with me on Tuesday?  Let's stand up to keep America great. Let's stand up to elect a Conservative that will be an ally to President Donald J. Trump. I need your prayers, I need your support, and most importantly on Tuesday, I need your vote. Thank you all. Thank you, Tate. Tu"
"Thank you. Thank you very much. Hello, Dallas, it's great to be with you tonight. Thank you, and I am thrilled to be here deep in the heart of Texas, where we just opened a beautiful new Louie Vuitton plant. When I'm with the freedom-loving patriots of the Lone Star State I love it. There has never been a better time to be a proud Texan and there's never been a better time to be a proud American. There never has, there never has. So I came from a small town, Alvarado, Texas, where we celebrated the incredible revival of American manufacturing and we opened up some beautiful places. I'll tell you this place is doing great and created in a very short period of time, an extra 1,000 jobs for Texas. Since my election, we've created 775,000 new jobs across the state, including 70,000 Texas manufacturing jobs, they said those jobs had disappeared, didn't they huh, hey man? Our country is once again living by two simple rules: Buy American and hire American. The economy is booming, our people are prospering, our country is thriving, and our nation is stronger than ever before, but the more America achieves the more hateful and enraged these crazy Democrats become.  Crazy. They're crazy. They're, crazy. At stake in this fight is the survival of American democracy itself and don't kid yourself, that's what they want. They are destroying this country, but we will never let it happen not even close. For three straight years, radical Democrats have been trying to overthrow the results of a great, great election, maybe, maybe the greatest election in the history of our country, and they want to impose an extreme agenda. They cannot pass it and they cannot win it at the ballot box. They're not going to win. They're not and even going to -- they won't come close in 2020. They know it. They know it. They're not going to win it. They say, let's see, what's another idea? What's another idea? How do we win this election?  You know, I really don't believe anymore that they love our country. I don't believe it.  Crazy Nancy. Think of that. That crazy Nancy, she is crazy.  And shifty Schiff, how about this guy? How about this guy?  He makes up my conversation which was perfect. He makes up my conversation, he sees what I said. It doesn't play well because it was perfect, so he made up a totally false conversation with the Ukrainian President and we caught him cold.  Everybody knew it anyway. See? We did one thing, you always have to do the unexpected. They never thought I'd release the conversation with the Ukrainian President. I want to get him before Congress and I want to see what he has to say. You know they say he has immunity. Why would you have immunity for outright fraud? Why do you have immunity? Why? He's a fraud. We're fighting a campaign against leftists, socialists, and globalists who want to return to reckless wars, open borders, rampant crime, and totally disastrous one-way trade deals. We're changing that one around very quickly. They believe America is the world's piggy bank and that your tax dollars should subsidize the economy, military, and defense of every other nation in the world, but our own.  It's not happening anymore. Our political opposition made its fortune selling out our nation and its citizens, and you know, that's what's been happening, and that's why 2016 was so important, and that's why 2020 -- I can never say it's more important, but you know, it's like the roots of a tree. You plant a baby tree, it's got a catch, get that extra time. We'll have more tax cuts, we'll have even -- I'll tell you what, we have rebuilt our military. What we've done has never been done before. The do-nothing Democrats have betrayed our country and that great betrayal is over. We are finally again, and we've been doing it now for almost three years, can you believe we've been doing this for three years? Can you believe it? I've been a politician for three years. I can't believe that. I never thought I'd be called a politician. I don't like it, but it is what it is, but we're finally, again, putting America first. The radical Democrats want to destroy America, as we know it. They want to indoctrinate our children and teach them that America is a sinful wicked nation. You see that happening all the time and I know it from personal experience what they want to teach your kids, not good. They come home, mommy, daddy, this is what I learned, and you're going, oh no, don't tell me. Let's get them into another school fast. They want to disarm law-abiding citizens, they want to take your guns away  and they want to win so far left judges to shred our Constitution. It's not happening. They want to tear down symbols of faith and drive Christians and religious believers from the public square. They want to silence your voices on social media and they want the government to censor, muzzle and shut down conservative voices. You know that. If they didn't hate our country, they wouldn't be doing this to our country. They wouldn't be doing it because they know better. They know better. As an example, we're building a great wall along the Southern border and it's going up rapidly, going up.  And you know five years ago, almost every one of them wanted a wall. Until I came along, and I said, we're going to build a great walk because they could never get it done and then they stopped the funding. They made it almost impossible. Few people would have been able to do what we did, but we got it from here, and we got it from there, and we got it from all over the place, and we're building that sucker right now, and it's having a tremendous effect already. Not easy. Highest level. Everything we said it would be. It's moving rapidly, although, the fake news back there, they don't want to talk about it.  They don't want to talk about it. Look at all those cameras, do you believe it? Look at all those red lights, don't worry, I won't say anything bad about your network. Because a lot of times I get ready to do a number on these phony networks. And you know, you see those red lights go off, off, off, off. They don't want their viewers to see it. But that's OK. I'm not going to say it tonight, I'm going to say your legitimate media. I don't actually mean that. But you look at that, but look at all those cameras. You know that's like the Academy Awards used to be because -- before it failed. Do you know why it failed? Do you know why it failed? Because they came after us. That's why it failed. It failed because they had stupid people saying horrible things about us, stupid, stupid people. They are stupid people and their ratings have dropped like a rocket and I love seeing it. I'm telling you. Love it. But no matter how hard they try, they will fail, because the people of Texas and the people of America will never surrender our freedom to those people right there.  We will stand strong for family, faith, God, and for our country. Last week, a very dumb Democrat candidate for President. That's the end of him in this state, pledged to revoke the tax-exempt status of many churches and religious charities.  And by the way, that was after a few weeks ago, he said excuse me, we're going to take your guns away. That doesn't work well and I called him, right. Remember the flailing arms? Nobody noticed it. I noticed it. The flairer, do you remember he was flailing all over the place? I said why is this guy hot? John Cornyn is going to win so easily, just like Ted Cruz won. He's going to win, no matter what happens, but John Cornyn is not talking about Bado anymore, because Bado in a few Short weeks, got rid of guns and got rid of religion. Those are not two good things in Texas to get rid of, and I will never allow the federal government to be used to punish Americans for their religious beliefs, and I will never allow the IRS to be used as a political weapon, except in the case of myself, where they use it against me. The radical left tolerates no dissent, it permits no opposition, it accepts no compromise. These people are crazy and it has absolutely no respect for the will of the American people. First, it was the Russia hoax. Then it was this smearing, which continues that disgraceful, disgusting smearing of a fine man, Justice Kavanaugh. And now, they continue the outrageous impeachment witch hunt with nothing, with nothing. They come after me, but what they're really doing is they're coming after the Republican Party, and what they're really, really doing is they're coming after and fighting you, and we never lose. I'm fighting for everyone who believes in the values, traditions, and principles that have made our nation the greatest in the history of the world, and I have to say this: we are far greater now than ever before. You go back four years, you go back seven, six, eight, even you go back into another administration, you go back 10 and 12 years. Where were you compared to where you are right now? So we must hold the Democrats accountable for their lies and their corruption. They are corrupt people and we must show and vote and we have to go out and we have to win this election coming up. It's going to be a landslide and we have to make it a landslide. Today's do-nothing Democrats, they don't do anything. Where's the USMCA? Everybody wants it. The Democrats even want it and crazy Nancy won't let anybody vote on it. She's nuts. Today's Democrats believe anyone who opposes them must be crushed. It's not just like let's win, you know, I have to say this. The Republicans and I'm not sure I like this, because my life hasn't been this way, but the Republicans play a much softer game they really do. When all of our stars, and we have great stars, when they went to our Speaker of the House at the time, and they asked for subpoenas, oh, let's take it easy. Let's take -- OK, I mean, I get that too. She hands them out like it's cookies. Here -- some -- I heard a commentator who happens to be standing right there the other day, doesn't like us at all, but, but said, I've never seen anyone hand out so many subpoenas.  I have people getting subpoenas I never heard of and said who are those people? Never saw anything like it, it's a disgrace what they're doing to our country? And we became, because of what they do, not the Republicans and not what we've done, because what they've done and what they see. When people come to my office, which is now the Oval Office, which is your office too. Presidents, Prime Ministers, Kings, Queens, I hate to say it sometimes, dictators, they just don't like to go by that title. They say, sir, congratulations, sir, on what you've done. Congratulations on what you've done. It's incredible. Your economy is the greatest on earth and let me tell you it: if my crooked opponent would have won the election, right now, China would be by far the number one nation from an economic standpoint in the world. We've gone up trillions of dollars, they've gone down trillions of dollars. And we are so far, number one, so far, that they'll never catch us if we are smart right here.  But the do-nothing Democrats believe anyone who opposes them has to be crushed. They don't want to just beat them. They don't want to just beat them. These are sick people, they want to crush these people, the anger, the hatred, and that any lie or crime or corruption is justified. So Schiff gets up and makes up my statement. He makes it up 100%, and then he said, he didn't speak to the whistleblower. No, we didn't see the whistleblower. And what about the whistleblower? The whistleblower got it all wrong. Who's the whistleblower? Who's the whistleblower? Who is the whistleblower? We have to know. Is the whistleblower as spy and who is the IG that did this? All he had to do is look at the tape or look at the -- what they wrote down. The transcribed version of the phone call, compare that to the whistleblowers account, and you see it had nothing to do with it. So why does the IG allow a thing like this to happen to our country? Why? Why? There are a lot of bad people out there but one by one we're advancing, one by one.  Just look at the terrible foreign corruption of the Bidens.  I hate to talk about him, do you know why? I don't think the guy's got a chance, sleepy Joe. I don't think he's got a chance. I don't see it. I don't know. I've got these great brilliant Senators over here. I have all these Congressmen over here, fellas. I don't think he has a chance. I'd like him to. I'd like him to. You know, I thought Pocahontas was gone, left in embers. You got to give her credit, those embers they kept going, going, going. Now, it looks like she's doing better  but I don't think Joe has a chance. But did you see the other night, where CNN, or in a totally unsubstantiated statement, the President said this about you, we're so sorry he said that. His son walked out with $1.5 billion from China. These were not the same Chinese people I just dealt with. I will tell you that. But Joe Biden was in charge of Ukraine policy while his son, with absolutely no energy experience, just got thrown out of the Navy like a dog, was paid massive sums of money by a Ukrainian energy company. Do you know what that's called? It's called a pay-off, folks. He didn't know energy at all, do nothing about energy. They hired him, paying him massive amounts of money, much more than the $50,000 a month that you heard about. That's a lot, that's a lot, but much more. Joe Biden made them go out and fired the prosecutor on tape, but they don't want to show the tape. I had to put it up on a social media site. They don't want to show the tape where he was bragging. They're not going to get this money unless they get rid and boom they got rid of the prosecutor. He was investigating the son and the son's company, got rid of them. Now, that's what you call, quid pro quo. While these charges are totally unsubstantiated -- these are the fake newsers out there. And then Biden flew, think of it. He goes into a tough place. We just made such a great deal with China. Think of this, my guy said, if we could get $20 billion in agricultural product, that would be good. The most China ever did was $16 billion for our farmers, OK? We're just talking about the farmers. We did banking, we did everything, but we're talking about them. The most they ever did was $20 billion of product from our farmers, our great farmers, our patriot farmers, our farmers that never left us even though they were being targeted by China. They never left me. So they wanted $20 billion and China agreed, and I said, nope, no good. I want $50 billion, not $20 billion, $50 billion. So, my guys say, we have a problem, sir, our farmers cannot produce that much. It's true. I said tell them to go out and get bigger tractors, right? The John Deere case, Caterpillar, all American, only American tractors. We only buy American tractors. Go out and get bigger. So now, China's agreed and they've already started buying. Hopefully, the agreement gets signed sometime prior to a big summit that we have with President Xi and others in Chile. So that's set about four weeks but think of this. They said, sir, they can't produce $50 billion. I said I want the farmers to tell me -- remember the story about winning? We're going to win so much. We're going to the White House. We're going to tell the President, sir, we just can't stand winning. The state of Texas, John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, they're going to come into my office. Sir, we just, just can't stand this winning in Texas anymore. It's too much. We can't handle it. Well, that's what I want from the farmers. I want the farmers to say, I want the farmers to say, sir, we just can't produce that much product. We can't do it, sir. And I'm going to say, yes, you can and they're going to say, no, we can't. I'm going to say, yes, you can and they're going to go out and they're going to take in $50 billion from China as opposed to $20 billion. That's what's going to happen. That's what's going to happen. But they were great. They stuck with us through thick and thin. Now, it's really working out for a lot of different groups, and in the meantime, we've taken in tens of billions of dollars of tariffs and China's eating the cost because they devalued their currency and they put money out, tens of billions of dollars. It's cost us nothing, billions and billions and billions -- and you know what I did for the farmer? During the lean times, I gave them $16 billion last year and $12 billion the year before, $28 billion altogether. It came out of the tariffs and I had a lot of money left over and nobody complained. And you know, our farmers didn't want that money, our farmers didn't want it. True story. Everybody comes for money, countries come for, everybody wants money, right? They all want our money. The farmers said, sir, we don't want this money, it's the subsidy, we don't want it. I said, no, it's not a subsidy, you're being targeted unfairly. They said, no, sir, it's a subsidy. This is true. I had 35 farmers in the Oval Office, incredible people, they didn't want it. They said, sir, just give us a level playing field. So now I gave them a field that's more that level. It's level like this, nice and easy, nice and easy, but the farmers, I call them the great patriots, the farmers. They -- I never lost them. They always said, you know, yeah, in trouble, I got a problem, but this should have been done many, many years ago by other Presidents and other leaders.  And we lose, for many years, $500 billion a year with China and many other countries, we lose billions. We lose with everybody but that's all changing now. But we lose $500 billion, not million, $500 million's a lot, right? We lose $500 billion, and you know what, it's a disgrace that that was allowed to go on for 25 years. It was a disgrace, disgrace. But now we're taking in billions of dollars. They've had the worst year they've had in 27 years and we're having the best year we've ever had, so that's good, that's good. So Biden flew with Hunter on Air Force Two. They flew to China, Hunter walked out of the plane, had a quick meeting, walked away with $1.5 billion, and these characters back there said, oh, that's, OK, there's no problem.  Can you imagine if Don or Eric Trump or Ivanka Trump was here someplace, right here? And by the way, our great First Lady is home watching this, she said this is the most exciting thing I've seen in a long time. She's a great First Lady, doing a great job. She's doing a great job. We're doing a great job. The whole country now is doing a great job. So, Biden takes a $1.5 billion and he goes on and he allows China to rip us off. Remember he said a year ago? No, no, China's good. They've done nothing wrong. They're wonderful people. They are wonderful people. I don't blame China by the way, I blame our leaders for allowing this horrible -- you know what and pillage, it's the R-word. You know what and pillage. You know what word I'm talking about, right? I don't want to use it because they'll say it's a horrible word that Trump used. So, the Bidens got rich while America got robbed. Tonight, we forcefully condemn the blatant corruption of the Democrat Party and nobody ever pays the price with the Democrats. They're so deep-seated. They never paid the price. They never paid but maybe soon that will start. You know, we've had a lot of -- we've had a lot of Obama people and Clinton people and some, to be honest with you, we've had some pretty bad Republicans down deep that didn't exactly love us, but slowly they're getting out. They have all sorts of protections but some -- he says get rid of them. Yeah, we're trying. Get rid of them. But their partner in the whole thing is the fake-news media. That's the problem.  Because the Democrats and the fake-news media, it's a partnership, remember that, and you see it all the time, and I've never seen it to this extent. You know when I won in the primaries, and then I won the election, I was treated horribly by the media, horribly. And then, when I won the election, we had the greatest night, one of the highest-rated nights in the history of television all over the world, and I won and I said, oh, the great thing. I said to Ivanka, I said to the First Lady, I said to anybody that would listen, I said listen, this is so great. Finally, finally, we, all of us, we're going to be respected by the media. And you know what happened? They got worse, they're worse now than they ever have been. They're crooked as hell. They're worse now than they've ever been. They're crooked.  The only message these radicals -- and they are radical lefties, will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd, 2020, save that date. With your help, we will win back the House, we will keep the Senate, and we will keep the White House in numbers like they haven't seen in a long, long time. Joining us tonight are many terrific Republican leaders and they are terrific, and frankly, if they're not, I'm not going to introduce them, OK? But we have some great leaders and you have great leaders in Texas, great leaders, and they love Texas. So a friend of mine, a guy that a lot of people weren't so sure -- we had this unbelievable relationship. In fact, when Ted Cruz held a rally in Washington, he said could you come to my rally? And everybody thought, these people thought, that was strange. They said to me, well, when is the fighting between these two because we really like each other? When is the fighting going to start, right Ted? They said when is the fighting going to start? And I said don't worry, it'll start and when it does it's going to be vicious and it was vicious and now we love each other again. He's great, Ted Cruz. And he had a great victory against the man that spent almost $100 million. That's a lot of money. He spent almost $100 million but that was a great victory. Thank you, Ted. Another man who is currently running against somebody, I kept thinking, maybe Bado will jump in because he's at zero right now. We hope he's going to jump in, remember, no religion and no guns. I think that's not good. Oh and I think, he's like pretty light on oil production too. But a man, and John, I have no idea who you're running against but nobody's going to be able to beat John Cornyn, who's, a good man, a good man. Thank you, John, and we have a lot of Congresspeople here. We have a woman, who's fantastic, who's been a fan of ours right from the beginning, Kay Granger. Thank you, Kay. We have a man who's, smart as hell, and he is tough, and he is mean and nasty, but he loves this state, and he's only mean and nasty because he wants to defend you and me, and all of the horrible things that we all go through, Louie Gohmert. Louie is a great guy, but a great friend of mine, I'll tell you, once -- once we got him on board, he wouldn't leave us no matter what. And he had Muller and everybody figured out long before anybody else had it figured out right, Louie? A person who has been an incredible ally, again, who loves your state, Randy Weber. Thank you, Randy. Great job. Thank you. One of the best lawyers you'll ever find. He's slick, he's smooth, but boy, he's loyal, he's, talented, and he's got them all buffaloed because they're not as good as him, John Ratliff. Thank you, John. A man I saw on television last night defending me, brilliantly defending me, I actually don't like doing this usually, but I tweeted out, I said, thank you very much, Brian Babin. That was a great defense. I appreciate it. Thank you, Brian. That was great last night. So, I put a tweet out because it's easier than making a phone call and talking for a half-hour. Thanks, Brian. I just said thanks, and you know what, he'd rather have that to actually, right? And Lance Gooden, special person, Lance Gooden. Thank you, Lance. Thank you, Lance. And Lance was one of 60 people that stuck in there. He was unbelievable. And Ron Wright, thank you, Ron. Great job, great job. These are great people. These are great people along with Republican Party chairs and all of these total winners. Here's one, Ronna McDaniel, I'll, tell you what. You know Ronna was the Head of Michigan, Michigan hadn't been won by a Republican for decades and it was tough. They all said you couldn't win Michigan, I said why? We're getting these massive crowds. Why? And she was in charge of Michigan, and I said, I want you to do me a favor find out who this woman is. She's driving me crazy. She calls me just one more trips, one more trip. Who is she? Who is she? And it was Ronna and we won the state of Michigan. We won. And when it came time, when it came time to picking somebody to head the RNC, Republican National Committee, I said what about that woman that drove me crazy from Michigan, and it was Ronna and she's done a fantastic job. Thank you. Thank you, Ronna. Thank you. She's fantastic. And a great Governor from your state, he's a great, great man, and a friend of mine, and together with you here, Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick. When you had a hurricane, two years ago now, they still keep calling me for money. Sir, could you give us another -- when the Governor called up, Dan was there? You know, thank you for being so generous to Texas, sir. The hurricane, it was a big one, it was a bad one, a lot of water dumped. I think the biggest dump of water, remember? It kept going in and out, in and out our, our Coast Guard saved 16,000 lives, thank you. But it kept going in and out, water, water, and finally, I get a call, I paid billions and billions of dollars to the state. Like numbers, my people are driving me crazy. I get a call from the Governor and Dan is there. Where's Dan, is he here? Where's Dan? Dan, Dan Patrick. And the two of them call me, and then I had Ted Cruz on my back and had John Cornyn on my back and I had the Congressman calling, it was brutal. It wasn't even fair. And they said, sir, thank you for being so generous on the hurricane. They made a fortune. You made a fortune on the hurricane. Thank you for being so generous, sir. Sir, we want one more small request, just a small -- it's not much and we appreciate you listening to us. We want to build a dam in the ocean, so that if we ever have another hurricane, sir, the water won't be able to come in to where it used to, in all of the areas that it came into, sir. Do you think we could do it and I said how much? It's only $10 billion -- $10 billion? Right, Ted? Right? $10 billion they wanted, and you know the way they sell it, and it's so good, they're salesmen, they're incredible salesmen. They say it's only $10 billion. I'm supposed to be happy, oh, let's see, could we give Texas an extra $10 billion for some, some crazy thing that may work, and it may not, right? Now, they're great people, they love your state. RNC Co-Chairman, Tommy Hicks, a real friend of ours. Thank you, Tommy. And our great campaign manager, the most sophisticated man with a computer you've ever seen. Remember they used to say with Hillary, her campaign is so sophisticated. Then after she lost, they said, Trump's campaign was so sophisticated. And remember, she spent like six times more on this stuff than we did. You know in the old days, my father taught me if you can spend less that's a good thing, not a bad thing, right? My father said if you can spend less -- So we spent much less than Hillary, crooked Hillary, crooked Hillary.  Where are those e-mails, Hillary? They may find those 33,000 e-mails. They're looking. They may find those deleted e-mails. They may find them. Remember the e-mails, that 33,000 e-mails covering her gym and her daughter's wedding, 33,000 -- that's a lot of e-mails for a wedding and working out.  But Brad Parscale did a great job. Thank you, Brad. Thank you. Thank you, Brad. And Secretary of Commerce, one of the legends of Wall Street, he was really like amazing, and he is doing an incredible job, Wilbur Ross. Thank you, Wilbur, smart guy. And a friend of mine, he's another one, he was so tough. He was nasty, man -- boy, he hit me during the campaign. I said that guy's ruthless and when it was sort of over, there was nobody more gracious, and I called him, I made him Secretary of Energy. He's done a phenomenal job and Rick Perry couldn't have done a better job. True, true, and he's going to be leaving at the end of the year, and probably coming back here. Whenever he does, it's going to be successful, but he spent three years with us, and I want to thank you, Rick. What a job you've done. Thank you. What a job he's done. He was also a great Governor of Texas, that you know. In everything we do, we're fighting for the faithful citizens of this country. This includes putting a stop to the catastrophic era of endless wars. Endless wars, they don't stop, they don't stop, they go on forever. We become policemen, we end up becoming police, were policing these countries. That's not what it's about. We've spent $8 trillion in the Middle East, thousands of American soldiers have lost their lives, tens of thousands more have been severely wounded, and in all fairness, the other side has lost millions of people, millions, millions of people, think of it. These wars brought mass chaos, instability, destruction, and death. Today, we choose a different path. We had tremendous success today. I don't know if you've seen it. Look, we've built in the last three years, we've built the strongest military by far. When I -- and I tell the story, I was embarrassed to tell it, but now I'll tell it. When I first got in, a General told me, we could have had a conflict with someone, said, sir, we don't have ammunition. And I said, I never want to hear a President -- I just never want to hear somebody have that statement made to them again as President of the United States, we don't have ammunition. Think of how bad, now we have so much ammunition, we don't know what to do with it. And as you all know, I guess, you've been watching today, I sent Vice President Pence and Secretary of State Pompeo to lead an American delegation to meet with President Erdogan of Turkey. They got there today and it did work without spilling a drop of American blood, not one drop of American blood. We've all agreed on a pause or a ceasefire in the border region of Syria, and it was unconventional what I did. I said, they're going to have to fight a little while, sometimes you have to let them fight a little while, then people find out how tough the fighting is. These guys know right up here, these guys know, right? Sometimes you have to let them fight like two kids in a lot, you got to let them fight, and then you pull them apart. But it was unconventional but they fought for a few days and it was pretty vicious, and the Kurds, who are our friends and Turkey's our friend, but they fought. It was tougher, I mean it was nasty, and you couldn't make a deal for 15, think of it, for 15 years, 20 years, they couldn't make a deal. The Kurds didn't want to move, Turkey didn't want to budge, and Turkey was having a lot of bad things happen from this region. In all fairness to Turkey, they were having a lot of bad -- but they didn't want -- now all of a sudden, they're fighting, and it's not fun having bullets going all over the place. And we went there and we said, we want a pause and the Kurds have been terrific. They're going to move back a little bit, we're going to keep ISIS all nice and locked up, OK? We're going to find more of them. Turkey's all set and President Erdogan was great and we're going to take the worst sanctions and tariffs and everything that I put on the country. We put the worst, I mean, I don't think they could have economically survived, but that doesn't matter, President Erdogan was a gentleman. He understood it. But without a little tough love, you know what tough love is, right? Without a little tough love, there would have never made this deal. President Obama lost a million people in the area, a million people, a million people  so now, we're doing a -- during a five-day period, we're going to see if we can get it all finalized, and I think it will be. I think it will be. So Turkey's going to be happy, the Kurds are going to be happy, ISIS is going to be unhappy. We'll deal with whoe"
"Thank you very much. Thank you, Minnesota. This is a great state. We are going to win this state in a very short period of time. Thank you. This feels like the day before the election. So we have 20,000 plus people inside. We just set a new record and we have 25,000 people that we still love outside and close to 100,000 people wanted to come tonight. Thank you, all. This is great. This is great. Thank you. I want to thank our great Vice President, Mike Pence and Karen Pence for being here tonight. It is great to be back in the Twin Cities with the freedom-loving American patriots who make our country run. You know that. You know it. For the next 13 months, think of that, it seems like yesterday. For the next 13 months, we are going to fight with all of our heart and soul, and we are going to win the great state of Minnesota in 2020. America now has the number one economy anywhere in the world, and it's not even close. You know I'm dealing with China right now. They're in Washington, we're going to see we make a deal, but they want to make it. We're going to determine whether or not we want to make it. But they've been very nice, and today, I got a call from one of the top representatives. He said congratulations, Mr. President, on having a truly great, great economy. That's pretty nice. We picked up since the election trillions of dollars in value and China has lost trillions of dollars in value. I will say this: if our opponent had won that election, you know what would have happened? Right now China would become the night -- it would be the number one economy anywhere in the world. And right now I can tell you, they're not even close. Our country is stronger than ever before because we are proudly putting, for the first time in a long time, we are putting America first.  And I have to say, there are a lot of very beautiful red T-shirts in the audience. That was a record sale. They did very well and I'll tell you what, cops love Trump, Trump loves cops. Our bold pursuit of this pro-American agenda has enraged, and you know what's happened, it's enraged the failed ruling-class in Washington, not easy to get them out, but we're doing it slowly but surely. These corrupt politicians and the radical leftist got rich bleeding America dry and they knew that by-election would finally end their pillaging and looting of our country. And that's what they were doing and that's what they continue to try and do. That is why from day one the wretched Washington swamp has been trying to nullify the results of a truly great and Democratic election, the election of 2016. They're trying, they're not getting very far. They want to erase your vote like it, never existed.  They want to erase your voice and they want to erase your future, but they will fail because in America the people rule again. Do you remember that just 19 minutes after I raised my hand and took the oath of office, the Washington Post, a terrible newspaper that doesn't know how to write the truth, published a story, and in this case they might have gotten it pretty correct? They said the campaign to impeach President Trump has begun. That was the headline.  Little did we know they weren't playing. Think of that. That was 19 minutes after the oath of office, months earlier, Peter Strzok  remember he and his lover, Lisa Page. What a group. She's going to win, 10 million to one, she's going to win. I'm telling you, Peter. I'm telling you, Peter, she's going to win, Peter. Oh, I love you so much. I love you, Peter. I love you too, Lisa. Lisa, lisa, oh God, I love you, Lisa. And if she doesn't win Lisa, we've got an insurance policy Lisa. We'll get that son of a bitch out. We got an insurance -- and we're living through the insurance policy. That's what it is. The phony Russia hoax.  Lisa, I love you. Now the do-nothing Democrat con artists and scammers are getting desperate. Thirteen months, they got to move fast because they're not beating us at the polls and they know it despite the phony, despite the phony polls that you see all the time. They have phony polls, you know, polls are no different. Remember, I always used to talk about polls. I know polls very well. Polls are no different than crooked writers. They're crooked polls, crooked polls -- no different. Well, that's a lot of media. Look back there. That's a lot of media.  They are so dishonest and frankly, they are so bad for our country. They are so bad and they could be so good for our country. They could be so good, and maybe they'll change, and maybe they won't. I've been waiting for a long time. You know after I won the last election, I said you know, finally, it's OK. Finally, I get some great press. They got worse. They got worse. I said finally, we're going to get -- I said to the first lady, darling, we're going to finally get respect, we're going to finally get media and press coverage that's going to be great. Look at what we've done and I'm telling you they did. They got worse.  And they know they cannot win. You understand. Well, if you didn't understand honestly, there's no way anybody could win because you'd believe them. If you believed them there's no way anybody could win. It's just like 94%, I can do the greatest thing in history and they'll make them bad to very bad. And if I do a neutral, something neutral, it worked out OK, they're great now -- It's like give him the electric chair. That was terrible, right? No, this is the worst. [Audience member calls out ""We love you, Trump""] These people and the Democrats, they are partners. It's a partnership. How about in the newscast like the word manufactured. It's manu -- and every newscaster, tonight in a manufactured deal along the border -- the word's never been used, now all of a sudden, all of the newscasters are using it. It's a talking point given to these fakers by the Democrats. So they know they can't win the 2020 election. So they're pursuing the insane impeachment which I've been going through it now.  I've been going through it now for more time than I've been in office because, you know, like Strzok with his insurance deal, this was before. Remember this, this was before -- that statement was made months before I took office. That statement was made months before the election took place. They said just in case, we're going to have an insurance policy. That only means one thing, we're going to get him out. So they're telling us. We can't let that ever happen again to another President. And Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, a lot of people, the great Mark Levin, we have a lot of great people, Lou Dobbs, great people. You know what they said? Every one of them plus many others, there's no other man that we've ever met that could have taken it. It's true, maybe I'm a little different up here. I don't know, but I enjoy it. To me, it's, I'm energized because we're draining the swamp.  The Democrats' brazen attempt to overthrow our government will produce a backlash at the ballot box, the likes of which they have never ever seen before in the history of this country. These are bad people. My phone call as an example with the President of Ukraine. It was perfect, everybody that looked at it and the only reason I released it was that the Democrats put out a phony narrative. So I had no choice and I don't want to do that as President. Every time a President from a country calls me or I call them, we have to release the text. How can you do business that way? Who's going to want to speak to your President? So the President of Ukraine reiterated today at a major news conference on other subjects that he was under absolutely no pressure. He doesn't know what they're talking about and he used the word, there was no blackmail during this call. He used that term. So in theory, that should be the end of it. Think of it. A President of the United States who's made our economy with a lot of help from all of you frankly, but from Mike and from some of our great Senators and some of our great people that we have with us. We made this the strongest economy in our history. We've rebuilt our military, we're taking care of healthcare like nobody's been able to do. What we've done is incredible, and by the way, we're protecting your Second Amendment. If you don't have me, your Second Amendment is gone. So we have the greatest economy, the greatest military, we've rebuilt our military, $2.5 trillion because when I took it over, it was a mess, and what do they want to do? Let's impeach a President. Try it. I don't think so. I don't think so. I think we're going to have a turnout, the likes of which, we've never seen in the history of our country. So we were really forced, just to put it away, we were forced, I said just do it. Got the approval from Ukraine. I have to ask, I said hey, do you guys mind? They said that's a strange request, they said don't worry about it. Do you mind? And they said please, go ahead. Nothing was said wrong in that call. So we released the transcript of the call which was so good that that crooked Adam Schiff, this guy is crooked.  He had to make up a fake conversation that never happened and he delivered to the United States Congress and the American people. It was a total fraud and then Nancy Pelosi said, oh, I think the President said that. These people are sick. I'm telling you they're sick, and you know what had they waited one day longer, they would have had the transcript of the actual call, word for word, and it would have been perfect. Instead, they released it, they went early. They said all these horrible things. Do you know why? Because they never thought in a million years that I was going to release a transcript of the call. So Nancy Pelosi, upon hearing a false story from a whistleblower that had no clue what was going on in that call, or somebody gave a very bad advice, but also hearing it from shifty Schiff, Nancy Pelosi said, a day before seeing the transcript of the call with the Ukrainian President, we've got to impeach him. We've got to impeach him, right? And then she saw the call and she said to her people, what the hell? Nobody ever told me this was the call. But she keeps going anyway because the press is fake and they play right into their head. The do-nothing Democratic extremists have gone so far left that they believe it should not be crime to cross our border illegally, and it should be a crime to have a totally appropriate, casual, beautiful, accurate phone call with a foreign leader. I don't think so. As our brilliant Whitehouse counsel wrote to the Democrats yesterday, he said their highly partisan and unconstitutional effort threatens grave and lasting damage to our democratic institutions, to our system of free elections, and to the American people. That's what it is. To the American people. It's so terrible. Democrats are on a crusade to destroy our democracy. That's what's happening. We will never let it happen. We will defeat them. I mean, look at their debates. These people are crazy. They want to spend $99 trillion to redo buildings all over the United States. I said what about China? What about Russia? What about India? What about all these other countries where that stuff is just flowing out? It's all right. Let him give you the answer. Man do the cops act fast. He's already gone. Man, that's unbelievable. That's the fastest. You know I have -- look, I love law enforcement. I love the cops. I love the police, I love Minneapolis. Minneapolis. You've got a rotten Mayor. You've got to change your Mayor. You've got a bad Mayor, got a bad Mayor, but you know what? The police I've done this a lot, and every once in a while, you have -- very little disturbance. It's really -- actually is there any place where we can have more fun than at a Trump rally? And we've set every record at every place virtually that we've gone, and one of the big musicians said, and Trump does it without a guitar. Can you believe without a guitar? But this guy, so I've had it a lot where, you know, but sometimes It'll take the police like 30 seconds, 50 seconds, it's like Roger Penske, when you watch him -- who's getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom by the way very soon. Great. He won 18 Indy 500, 18, Roger Penske, but it's like the way they change those tires. It takes four seconds to change a whole damn thing. I say how the hell did they do it? That's the way these cops just reacted. That was a record. I think it was. I've had good service but I've never had anything like that. I look up, the guy is already gone. We love you with the red shirts. So now the Democrats are making a pathetic bid to save sleepy Joe, sleepy Joe Biden.  And you know what, I'd love to run against him to be honest. Anybody like that, if you can't beat him in a debate, you've got a big problem folks. You can't beat him in a debate, you can't be President, because what are you going to do against President Xi and Kim Jong-un? You can't beat sleepy Joe, but now we're going to meet with Kim Jong-un. I don't think so. But he's totally owned and totally controlled by the Washington swamp for many years. Two months after President Obama put Joe in charge of Ukraine policy, they put Joe Biden in charge of Ukraine policy. Listen to this, and the press won't write it. They say, in totally unsubstantiated charges, every time they talk about him. President Trump has said his son walked away with a fortune. Now you know that's a totally unsubstantiated charge, really? It's not unsubstantiated, it's fact. Joe's son, Hunter, got thrown out of the navy and then he became a genius on Wallstreet two days. By the way, whatever happened to Hunter? Where the hell is he? Where's Hunter? Hey, fellas, I have a new idea for a new T-shirt. I love the cops but let's do another T-shirt, where's Hunter? Where is he? Here's Hunter being examined by sleepy eyes Chuck Todd or some of these people. Hunter, it's so great that you're here, sir. Um, Hunter, I know they're giving you approximately $168,000 a month. I hear they paid you a big check of $3 million, I just want to speak, on behalf of NBC, who's absolutely one of the worst, I just want to tell you. Hunter, Hunter, I just want to tell you, I couldn't be happier for you and your family and I know you don't know anything about energy, and I know it's an energy company. But I think they made a great deal, Hunter. And then they fly to China and I'm dealing with people right now. They're tough as hell those Chinese negotiators. And Hunter is not too smart. He goes in, he has a meeting, he walks out in his fund with $1.5 billion, with a B, billion dollars. These aren't the same Chinese negotiators that I'm dealing with, I can tell you. These are not the same ones but we are doing very well in that negotiation. Now think of it, where's Hunter? OK get -- where is Hunter? I want to see Hunter asked this way. Hunter, you know nothing about energy, you know nothing about China, you know nothing about anything, frankly. Hunter, you're a loser. Why did you get $1.5 billion, Hunter? And your father was never considered smart, he was never considered a good Senator. He was only a good Vice President because he understood how to kiss Barack Obama's ass.  Thank you. Thank you. It's true. It's true and they're always saying the same thing. Yeah, he got $1.5 billion, we admit it, they admit it. There's nothing but always that same thing, President Trump made a totally unsubstantiated claim about Hunter Biden and his father. It's not unsubstantiated you crooked son of a guns. It's 100% true. Even the smart guys on Wallstreet and I know all of them, and they are smart. They've never seen anything like that one before. I'd call them, does that ever happen, never happens. Guy walks in, no experience, no nothing, walks out with a big and five G, flies in on Air Force Two with his father, the Vice President. Don't forget, that's when he was Vice President. So China gives his son $1.5 billion. How would you like to have Joe Biden take over negotiations right now with China? I don't think so. I don't think so. Meanwhile, Biden allowed China to rip off America for eight years, as Vice President and Barack Obama let him just rob us blind, and we're not doing that anymore. Those days are over. The Bidens got rich and that is substantiated while America got robbed. That's what happened. Sleepy Joe and his friends sold out America. They didn't have tough negotiations. I look at these trade deals and I'd say who the hell could have done this? If you didn't, if you had no business instinct, no business ability, if you had nothing, if you're dumb as hell, you wouldn't make these deals, They're so bad. I say who made these deals? Who made these deals? But we're ripping them all up and redoing them and they're going to be very good. Wait 'til you see what happens and now that I'm your President, you see it. America is winning again and we're respected again as a nation.  And in a brand new report, just came out as I'm walking on the stage, hard to believe actually. It turns out that Joe Biden was Vice President. He worked with the so-called whistleblower. This is nothing but a partisan witch hunt sabotage and I'm sure they're going to say, it's totally unsubstantiated, but one of them wrote this story. Congratulations, by the way. Congratulations, that's really good. That's the way you should do it. Good. Good. Good. In the twisted worldview of Democrats and the media, it's OK for politicians to ship our jobs to foreign countries, flood our communities with drugs and crime, and enrich themselves at America's expense. Their treachery is allowed because they go along with the rigged Washington game and it is far more rigged. When I ran, I thought it was rigged but this is crazy what's happening. But if you refuse to bow or bend to the Washington swamp, which I could do very easily, I'd be much more popular. Folks, I'd be -- it would be so much easier. You know a very smart, I got it and I got to tell you isn't it much better when I go off script? Isn't that better? So much and it's just, it's just -- hey folks, the greatest buyer of advertisements in the history of the world, Mike Lindow, my pillow. I have never seen so many ads. I think he's the greatest ad negotiator in history, and I told him, I said would you do me a favor? All the money we spend in these political campaigns, if I gave some of that money to Mike, I think we'd have ads every single minute of every single shot. I never saw so many. Anyway -- but the lawless political establishment will try to frame you, they'll persecute you, they'll swear, and just swear up and down that they're telling the truth. When Nancy Pelosi was on television the other day, I have to say, I have to say, I was very proud of George Stephanopoulos. I was very proud. It's not often, she said no, no, shifty Schiff told the truth when he said that. Stephanopoulos said no, wait a minute, no, it wasn't the truth. It was a falsehood. No, no, it's the truth. He said no and did she -- she really believes it. So she's either got one of two problems: she's either really stupid, OK, or she's really lost it, or maybe there's a certain dishonesty in this some -- but they smear you. They spy on you, and they target your friends, your family, your staff for harassment, for abuse, for destruction. I came down to Washington with incredible people. We want a great political campaign. They were bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. We know that's a nice phrase. They came down. They were happy, they wanted to turn the country around. They wanted to do great things, all of a sudden, they get summoned and they get subpoenaed by Robert Mueller. How good was he is a witness? Not too good. And by people that were, I call them, the 13 angry Democrats that turned into 18 angry Democrats. It was disgraceful. So people that were going down. Sir, what is this? I look, oh wow, that's a subpoena. What the hell is this? They took people, I really mean this, they took people that were full of life and energy and vigor. We had just won the greatest campaign in the history of American politics. It's true. It's true and they destroyed their lives. They destroyed their lives. They went home. I could name many people, one in particular, who came down, an incredible young woman. She was going to help people. She wanted to help people, she had causes that was so good, she wanted to help people, and she ended up going home. Dark, dark. Her life became hell. They ruined people. They destroyed -- they destroyed people, good people. People that ended up paying far more money in legal fees than they made than they made. They destroyed great people. They're vicious, horrible, and the media was behind every single step.  They destroyed so many lives. They destroyed so many lives and they're continuing to do it, and it's a disgrace. When all of their ludicrous hoaxes have been exposed as frauds, these sinister fakers, then tried to impeach you for daring to call out their own corruption. There's nothing like the dirty political establishment, and I have to tell you, this is you know a friend of mine, very smart, brilliant guy, he was with me about two weeks ago. We just got rid of the Russia hoax and then, a week later, the Ukraine hoax starts. I had a week of like, I can think about everything perfect, it's so beautiful and he said President, I said call me Donald, you've called me Donald for 35 years. I will, thank you, Donald. I've lost all my friends because they're all scared to talk you know -- like, you know, honestly, I'm the President. They can't talk to me anymore. It's like they're afraid. They respect the office, it's true, they say, President, I say, do me a favor Richard, you've called me Donald for 35 years. Call me Donald, please. I want somebody to call me Donald.  True. He said to me, I just told him call me -- he said President, I can't do it, he said. So is this President, you've been here now for, think of it, almost three years. Can you believe we're here three years? We, we, it's we. And we have to promise them no more than 16 years, OK? No more. No more, 16 more years, I'm all he could. Now they'll go back, see he wants to run for more but he said, he said, President, can I ask you a question? It's so important to me. You deal -- he's a great businessman, very successful. He said you deal with all of these nations, these great, powerful, who is the worst to deal with is it China? Is it North Korea? Is it India? Is it Russia? Please tell me, Mr. President, who is the toughest nation to deal with? I said you're not going to believe this. It's the USA, is the toughest nation to deal with, the USA. It's true because we're dealing with some very sick and deranged people.  There's nothing that the dirty political establishment hates more than a President that they cannot intimidate, own, and control. They're, trying to stop me because they know that I don't answer to them, I answer to you. It's true. You know I never say this. I don't think I've ever said it in a speech but maybe they'll find out if I did. Then they'll give me Pinocchio's, he said it before, but I don't know if I ever said it. But you know, I make as President about $4450,000, I give it away. No, wait. I don't care, I don't care. I never hear anything. Can you imagine if I didn't? I give it away to -- you can only give it. You can't keep it. You can't actually make a gift. You can give it to your different agencies. So I can give it to health, I can give it to transportation, I can give it to military, but I give it away all the time, every -- Now and if I ever did but it's $450,000. If somebody stays from let's say a Middle East country in one of my hotels, and we charge him $392.50 for staying, and I never heard of the guy and I don't want to hear about him. They say Trump is getting rich off our nation. I lose billions being President, I don't care. It's nice to be rich, I guess. But I lose billions. If somebody rents a room someplace and they pay me two months in rent or hotel fees. I never heard of the people. I never know who they are. They say emoluments. Nobody ever heard of the word emoluments before. Emoluments, it's the craziest thing I've ever seen. I tell you, it's cost me billions of dollars to be President, it really has. And at some point, I'll probably have to prove that and I look forward to do it. It's very easy. It's very easy. And there is nothing that makes me happier than making that decision to run and win and straighten out the mess that these people have created. So in a desperate attempt to attack our movement, Nancy and Chuck, two beauties, have given control of the Democrat party entirely over to the radical left, including Minnesota's own representative, Ilhan Omar.  You know, I know you people, I know you people, I know the people of Minnesota, and I want to tell you, and I also at the same time, it's both the question and this statement, how the hell did that ever happen? How did it happen? How did it happen? Congresswoman Omar is an America-hating socialist. She minimized the September 11th attack on our homeland were far more than 3,000 people died saying some people did something, big deal, some people did something. She pleaded for compassion for ISIS recruits right here in Minnesota. Omar left that Americans speak of al-Qaida, do you remember that tape? Speak of al-Qaida but when we say, well, we say something about the United States, you just don't say America with any intensity. Remember that? Representative Omar has a history of launching virulent, anti-semitic screeds, whether you like it or not. She said the US support for Israel is all about the Benjamins. She said that pro-Israel lawmakers have an allegiance to a foreign country. Omar wrote that Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them to see the evil doings of Israel and the United States.  How do you have such a person representing you in Minnesota? I'm very angry at you people right here. She is a disgrace to our country and she is one of the big reasons that I'm going to win and the Republican Party is going to win Minnesota in 13 months.  Thank you very much. So we're honored to have with us today a special guest, a man that really is a terrific, talented writer. He knows a great deal about all those tangled lies of Omar, Mr. Scott Johnson of Power Line. He wrote some stuff. I can't believe it. Where's Scott? Where's Scott? Thank you, Scott. Thank you, Scott. What a job. Man, do you have her figured out. The only problem is Scott, it's incredible talent, much more talented than most of these people that you heard about. The problem is they never pick it up. They don't want to pick it up but we pick it up, Scott, and the people get it, and we thank you for your great reporting. Thank you. Thank you very much. As Scott reported, everything about Omar is a fraud, including her name. Scott reports, his sources told him that quote, Omar's legal husband was Omar's brother and that she had married him for fraudulent purposes. You mean, like, coming into the United States, maybe? And as God says, we have seen a plethora of Congressional scandals in our history. Yet we have never seen scandals like Omar's in Congress and nothing gets done about it. I hope, I hope that some of you people are looking because what AOC has gotten away with campaign financing, and what -- I call it AOC plus three, that's what it is and Omar is one of the three. What AOC has gotten away with all of that money that she used for her personal self with campaign finance is worse and nothing happens to them, but it happens to you, and it's not fair. The fact is, we're in a struggle for the survival of democracy in America. The only message these radical socialists and extremists will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd, 2020. With your help, we will win back the House, we will keep the Senate, and we will win the White House. And we're thrilled to be joined tonight by some incredible people that have helped me so much, one of your tremendous, talented, tough Congressman Tom Emmer, Tom. Also, a man, you don't want to fight him and you don't want to play him in hockey because he was tough. He just won, not that recently but pretty recently, and I was out here campaigning for him and working hard and it turned out to be an easy race because everyone loves him and respects him. Congressman Pete Stauber. And a man who gets in the trenches and he just doesn't care. He wants to win for the people. He loves you. He loves this state. He loves his country, Jim Hagedorn. And a great friend of mine, with his incredible family, he's a friend, he's smart, I guess, you'd say he's brilliant. His education is incredible. His military career has been incredible. Then he ran for office and now he's a United States senator from the great State of Arkansas, Senator Tom Cotton. Great guy. And Minnesota Senate Majority Leader Paul Gazelka. Paul, thank you, Paul. Minnesota GOP Chairwoman, Jennifer Carnahan. She's been incredible. I said Jennifer, are we going to win in 13 months? She said honestly, sir, I've never seen anything like this. It's going to be easy. Don't ever say that. Just assume we're like two points behind, OK? Two points behind. You never ever, please, you always just assume you're a little behind but we're going to win this state by so much that people are going to be shocked, and plenty of other states too. You know we had a rally three weeks ago in New Mexico and New Mexico is a hard state for Republicans, hasn't been won in a long time also, and we had receptivity that was unbelievable. The audience was 40% Hispanic where we're doing great. And you know Hispanic they understand borders better than anybody, better than we do. They understand safety, they understand their job, they don't want people taking it away, they don't want crime, they understand it better that's why we're doing so well. But we're in New Mexico, and I'm telling you that was electric. But honestly, all evenings are electric. We haven't had any bad ones. We haven't. They're all, all right. A woman who headed up the great state of Michigan for me, a state that hadn't been won in a long time by Republicans for whatever reason, but it hadn't been run. I guess we didn't have the right candidates, right? But a woman who would call me constantly. I said I don't want to talk to her, she's giving me a headache. Sir, if you make one more trip, you're going to win Michigan. I said all right, I make the trip, I go back home. I get a call the next morning, sir, we need one more. This went over and over and over, and we ended up winning the state of Michigan, and I said who the hell was that woman that kept bugging me to go back to Michigan? It's just one more time every week, one more time, sir, and her name is Ronna McDaniel, she's fantastic, and she's the head of the RNC. She's great and our campaign manager, a man who's really been -- you know they used to say that crooked Hillary had a very, very sophisticated campaign. After she lost they said, I guess, it wasn't sophisticated. We had a sophisticated campaign. Nobody knows the world of computers better than this guy, Brad Parscale. Remember when they used to say it? You know I never got credit. My father used to teach me if you can do it for less and win that's good. He wasn't talking politics. The last thing -- he's looking down. He's definitely looking down, not lookin' up. He was good, he was tough, but he was great. But my father, my father would say, if you could do it for less and win, that's a good thing, not a bad thing. If you can build a building for less money than the guy across the street, and if it's a nicer building, and you can rent for less, you really, that's a good thing. So in the campaign, we spend much less money than crooked Hillary Clinton, much and we won and we won. We won 306 to 223 that's our pretty big. Remember? Remember they said electoral college, and by the way, when you run, if you're running the electoral college is like the hundred-yard dash and the total vote -- you don't go certain places, you focus. Electoral college, we had to explain to them. It's different. So we won three or six, and you remember they used to say once the "
"Well, I just want to thank the people of Louisiana you have been so great. Right from the beginning. Right from the beginning and I'm thrilled to be back with thousands of loyal rock ribbed, American Patriots. That's what you are, that's what we are. You work hard, you pay your taxes, you raise your children, you follow our laws, you respect our police, you defend our values and you stand strong for God, family and country. Tomorrow you will head to the polls and you will vote to replace a liberal Democrat who has sold you out, John Bel Edwards with a great new Republican governor. Now this Saturday, you also have a not a bad football game coming up. Right? Not a bad game. I guess, they're both unbeaten. I was watching a little bit of a clip today. Your quarterback does not look too bad, does he? Boom, boom, boom. Well, it's a great game LSU and Florida. So here's what you do. So important. I want you to enjoy the game, but I don't really want you to enjoy the game if you don't vote first. You know why? Because you'll be sitting there watching some incredible football and you feel guilty, it will ruin your entire afternoon. So go out and vote and then go and enjoy the game the way it should be enjoyed. As you've seen under Republican leadership, America is stronger than ever before and that's what's happened. We've created 6 million new jobs and opened 10,000 new factories since my election. The United States has the hottest economy on earth. You know, these prime ministers and presidents and kings and queens and I'd hate to say it, sometimes dictators, but we take them as they come. Right? We take them as they come, but they always sort of, ""Sir, congratulations on the great job you've done with the economy."" Get the hottest numbers, get the hottest economy in the world. We've got the No. 1 economy anywhere in the world and had our opponent gotten elected. You would right now be the No. 2 economy to China and we are now so far ahead. It will never happen if smart people are standing here. We've ended the war on American energy and with your help, right here in Louisiana, the United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on the planet. And how about these Democrats? They want to get rid of oil.  They want to get rid of natural gas. They want to go to wind. Hell, darling, I just can't watch the show tonight. The wind, it just stopped blowing. I can't watch LSU and Florida, there's no wind today. I'm angry, I'm really angry at John Bel Edwards. He has not done the job. We are securing our borders, taking care of our great veterans and restoring the unrivaled might of the US military like never before. And by the way, and we're going to introduce some but you have two great Senators here tonight. You have great Congressman. We approved something called, Veterans Choice. The veterans now, can go see a doctor outside of the V.A. if they have to wait for two weeks or three weeks or three days, they can go and they can see a doctor. We pay the bill, they get better. People are waiting for four, five, six, seven weeks. So our veterans, we're taking care of our veterans. Do you notice that with the veterans? I -- because a lot of veterans here. But you notice? It used to be all the time, every time. Oh, there's a veteran. Where's the veteran? Right there? How are you sir? He looks like a veteran too. Not going to mess with him. Great. Thank you very much. But you notice? We don't see the bad stories about the veterans. Now, the fake news will go out all over the United States.  They'll look. They'll look -- NBC is one of the worst in the world. They'll look -- they'll look for a veteran. They're going to find a veteran that's not 100% happy and they're going to make him a star. But you notice? For a year and a half, we've been in great shape, right? They don't talk about the veterans.  Get them out. Wow. You know what? Your police work fast. They work fast.  They don't mess around in Louisiana, do they? It's called, out. That was beautiful. I love to see it. Our police are great, law enforcement great. Doing an incredible job. With all of our nation's gains are put at risk by a rage filled Democrat Party that has gone completely insane. For nearly three years, Democrats have waged a non-stop battle to overturn your vote, overrule your voice, override your values and overthrow the results of the most spectacular election in the history of our country 2016. But your Senators and your Congressman and frankly, the real Senators and the real Congressmen and women of this country, they're not standing for the good people of Louisiana. Will never ever stand for it. It's a hoax, it's a hoax. The Democrats are fighting to restore the wretched political class that threw open our nation's borders, shipped away our jobs, sacrificed our well, surrendered our sovereignty, flooded our cities with drugs and crime and bogged us down in one foreign war after another. The endless wars have to stop. Have to stop. We're directly taking on the unholy alliance of corrupt Democrat politicians, deep state bureaucrats and the fake news media. There they are right there.  You know, it's really funny, I see all those red lights on. That means, you're live. Right? As soon as I start talking about the fake news, I see those lights go off so fat, but then they come back on. And you know why? They come back on because last night, by far, all over the cable, all over the place, the highest rated show was what we did in Minnesota, a state that we're going to win. That's why they come back on because they had no choice. They may hate Trump, but they want to get those ratings. Hey, what's going to happen in 12, maybe 16 years? When I'm no longer President. See, I'm just driving up here. Their ratings are going to tank. I actually think they're going to endorse me. Because if they don't, can you imagine having Pocahontas as your president?  Now, the real Pocahontas we wouldn't have minded, but the fake Pocahontas you can have. Or how about sleepy Joe?  His son, who knows nothing about energy unlike the people in this room. He flies into the Ukraine. He flies into Ukraine, he walks out with $168,000 a month, $3 million, never -- he doesn't know what a gasoline tank looks like. And they're paying him hundreds of thousands a month then he flies into China and he takes out $1.5 billion. I got to tell you, you know, I just made a great China deal today for energy, for the farmers, for the banks for so many. You know, technology. One of the greats. Phase 1, its a big phase. In fact, the biggest problem, it'll be 40 to $50 billion in farm purchases. I don't think our farmers can produce that much. I said, ""That's okay."" You know, my people said, ""Sir, could we make it 20?"" I said, ""No, make it 50."" Our farmers will buy more land and they'll buy bigger tractors. Right?  Now, they actually said, ""I want my farmers, I love my farmers. I want them to come back to be."" ""Sir, we can't produce this too much, it's too much sir. It's too much. We can't produce that much wheat and corn and all that stuff."" Because I want to tell you, I got China to order a lot. And it's true, it's not true. No, it's true. So China in their record year, of course they'll catch it within you know, $2, it was $2 off. He gets a Pinocchio. All those Schiffs got four Pinocchio's for making up what I said or the phone call.  Shifty Schiff. But their biggest year was $16 billion in aggregate. That's a lot. Sixteen billion, that's a lot of corner. Sixteen billion was their biggest year. They're going to buy not 16, not 20, not 30, not 40. They're going to buy between 40 and $50 billion worth of agriculture price. And my people said to me, ""Sir, they can't do it. They cannot produce that much."" I said, ""You know what?"" No, it's true my people wanted to stop at 20. I said, ""I'm not stopping at 20."" I want them to come back and say, ""Sir, we can't do it."" Because I love my farmers. But they're going to be out there busy. They'll be going -- they'll be go -- they're going to be more tractors sold and they're going to be bigger and better and more powerful. And they're going to be made by American companies like John Deere and Case and Caterpillar. So for your Senators and you Congressmen that are here, that was one hell of a deal. This is phase one, phase one, you got to see these and they are happy to do it. They are happy to do it. We had a great relationship. And I tell you, so let me get back to Biden. Right? Remember? Where's Hunter? You know, last night I said, ""Where's Hunter?"" It became like the hottest thing in the whole country. Are you said, ""By the way, where's Hunter?"" He walked out of China. So he walks out with $1.5 million and I said, ""You know, those aren't the same guys that I've been dealing with from China for the last year and a half."" Those guys don't give you a 1.5 billion and you know nothing. That's not the same Chinese people, I want to meet those people. Instead of 50 billion, it would be $500 billion worth of corn. So it's a crooked deal and the fake news is always covering up for Joe Biden. Right?  The fake news, they go, ""One of the claim is totally unsubstantiated."" Every single newscast. With me, any claim is okay. With them, well, the claim is totally unsubstantiated. And I say, but it's not unsubstantiated. He took out a fortune out of Ukraine, knew nothing. Took out a fortune out of China. How tough is China? I called one of the biggest people on Wall Street, friend of mine, really big powerful guy. Disaster. I said, ""Let me ask you just one question. What are the chances of doing that?"" He said, ""Zero."" I said, ""So you're the biggest on Wall Street, Steve. Steve, you're the biggest. What are the chances you could do that?"" He said, ""Even the big ones can't do that."" But for a guy to walk in off the street with no experience, a bad track record just got thrown out of the Navy and he walks away with 1.5 billion. And then these people, these crooked people back there say, ""This is totally unsubstantiated.""  Can you imagine John Kennedy, Bill? Can you imagine if Don Junior or if Eric Trump or if our beautiful Ivanka she works so hard. Can you imagine? If they walked out with one and a half billion dollars, they wouldn't be saying totally unsubstantiated. They'd be saying, ""Where's the nearest cell? This is a horrible thing."" So it's a disgrace what's going on. It's a whole big fat disgrace and it's very unfair to Republicans. But you know what? We're here and they're not. Right? The Democrats and the media, they're partners, they're partners, OK? You ever see in the -- the word manufacture, it's never been used before for this. We're talking about the southern border and they're talking about in a manufactured crisis. They said it was not a crisis that it was manufactured. When you had caravans, we stopped it and the wall is being built like you've never seen before. Been there. But remember, a few months ago, in a manufactured crisis, ABC, NBC. In a manufactured crisis, ABC again, manufactured CNN crooked as hell in a manufactured crisis. Manufactured. Then you go to CBS, ladies and gentlemen, and I manufactured gun. There's a word that was never used and yet every single network used it because you know what? It's collusion, it's collusion. That's the real collusion. With us, there was no collusion, that's the real collusion right there. They colluded and they conspired to sabotage our incredible movement and they wanted to sieve the American voter. And they want to hurt the American voter. And we had an election in the history of our country. There's never been a greater victory than the victory we had in 2016 and we're going to have a bigger one in 2020. They've been trying to stop us for more than three years with a lot of crap. You know, the first time I heard about Russia, they said, ""Sir, do you know anything about Russia?"" ""No."" ""Have you colluded with Russia?"" And I laughed, I thought they were kidding. And weeks would go by and hear somebody else come up, ""Sir, do you know any about Russia?"" ""No. Not -- no, I know where its is. I don't deal with it."" I sold a house to a guy about 12 years ago. He was from Russia, that's a long time ago. No, I don't know. Then they come up again, ""Sir, this Russia keeps coming up. Do you know anything about it?"" This is the witch hunt. This is the insurance policy for, you know, this -- this was the insurance policy. Remember from the two lovers? If she doesn't win, we've got an insurance policy. These people are corrupt. These people are disgusting, the two lovers. And they put it on the FBI server so their spouses wouldn't find out. Because they didn't want to put it on their private. That didn't work out too well for Peter Strzok and Lisa Page did it. Lisa, I love you. I love you, Lisa. I love you, Lisa. I love you so much I can't even see straightly. Lisa, she's going to win 100 million to nothing. But just in case, Lisa, my darling, I love you, God. Don't. Just in case she doesn't win, we got an insurance policy. Essentially saying, we're going to take him out. These are corrupt people, folks. And then she said, ""Peter, I love you, I love you so much. You're so great, Peter."" I -- I don't think she loves him too much anymore. Do you think? I don't think she loves him. I hear the word, it's not too good. The word is she's not in love anymore. We've been living through this so-called insurance policy because they know, we're putting a stop to their pillaging and they're plundering and they're hoaxes. The radical Democrats policies are crazy, their politicians are corrupt, their candidates are terrible and they know they can't win an election day. So they're pursuing an illegal, invalid and unconstitutional, bullshit impeachment.   They're scammers and con artists, perpetrating, hoaxes and witch hunts. A man like Greg Jarrett, great guy. He wrote a book and the book tells you the whole story. Best seller book. Greg Jarrett, great guy, so many. Bongino, I tell you, so many. He's not a lawyer, but he -- he's better that the lawyers. He's called street smart. But these are great so many great people. John Solomon should get the Pulitzer Prize. How about these fraudulent writers at The New York Times? They get Pulitzer Prize and they got it all wrong. They have to give back their Pulitzer Prize. But that's a fix also, isn't it? I've just won the Pulitzer Prize for talking about Trump and Russia, but they were all wrong now. Now, the people that were right, like Sean Hannity and Rush Limbaugh, Laura Ingraham and Tucker Carlson, Judge Jeanine and Watters, my Watters. And frankly, the best show by far in the morning is Fox and Friends. Also got the best rater. And Lou Dobbs, how about Lou Dobbs? And Varney, he's great. You know, Varney's great and Maria Bartiromo. And you know what? And -- and then many others, many others, many others. But they get it right. But why is it, John Solomon? Why are these people getting the real Pulitzer Prize? Because they were right, they called it right. The Times, The Washington Post, they're dishonest, horrible. I think very, very bad for our country publications. It's a phony deal. So their writers get Pulitzer Prizes for getting it wrong and the great writers that really got it. And I don't know them, I never even met some of these people, but the ones that really got it right, they go home empty handed. It doesn't work that way. And the people see it, you know, the people see it. So some of the names that I mentioned, all of the names that I mentioned and plenty that I didn't, I'll tell you, thank God we have them on our side. And in its own way thank God, that we have a thing called social media because we get the word out. Like nobody has ever gotten the word out before, but it's called the witch hunt. The story of the greatest mass delusion in American political history, that's what it is. This is one of the great con jobs ever. We must never let it happen to another President. This should never be allowed to happen again. When shift goes out and speaks before Congress, they never thought I was going to release the transcript of my call, oh. And this whistle blower, what's going on with the IG? How come the IG brings a whistle blower forward? And the whistle blower who works now for Biden, did you hear this one? Came out yesterday. But the whistle blower comes out with a totally phony report on my phone call, but they never thought I'd release it. So they were gonna be okay. Eight times, quid pro quo except it was no time. And if you listen to what they said, it sounded horrible. That's why I had to release it. I called up Ukraine and said, ""Do you mind?"" I had one of my people, make a call. Do you mind if we release it? They said, ""What the hell is that all about?"" And by the way, the President of Ukraine yesterday came out and he said, ""He did nothing wrong. What are you talking about?"" I think they look at our country, they think we're all crazy. They think we're crazy. But he said really nice, the new President, good guy and he got elected on an anti-corruption platform because Ukraine is. You know, Ukraine is known as a, unfortunately, very corrupt place, but they'll straighten it out. But he came out yesterday and he said so strongly and the fake news hardly puts him on. Hardly puts him on. And he said it before, he said it at the United Nations and his foreign minister said it so strongly. He said, ""There was nothing wrong with that call. There was nothing wrong."" They don't even know what the hell we're talking about. But nobody thought I'd release the call. Probably nobody thought we had a transcript. So when I heard the viciousness -- but here's the worst of all, worst than the whistleblower. Now the whistleblower, what's this is a whistle? Why are we protecting a person that tells you things that weren't true? But listen to this, so shifty shift. Shifty. A little out a -- a little out a shift. Adam, I've had you up to here. I've had you up. A little out of shift. He comes out and he made up my conversation. And I was watching, fortunately, because a lot of people sort of think like, oh, I guess that's what he said. I said, ""I never said that."" And then when Pelosi, nervous, nervous Nancy.  Nervous Nancy. Nervous Nancy. Nervous Nancy. I used to think she loved the country, she hates the country because she wouldn't be doing this to the country if she did. She hates the country, Nancy Pelosi hates the United States of America because she wouldn't be doing this. And I'm telling you, foreign nations, foreign people looking at us. They honestly think we're nuts. And then you have Presidents and saying nothing was wrong. The President of the country. That's in question. But Nancy Pelosi said, ""Well, that's what he said. Isn't it? But she was angry as hell when she got to read the transcript. Because she said, ""Wait a minute, that's not what I was told."" But she was stuck, she was stuck. But think of a guy, who makes up a phone call, makes up my words, viciously says, eight quid pro quos. In other words, you got to do this and we're not going to do that. And there were none. There were none. They couldn't believe it when I released that call. I would have loved to have seen their faces. And then he goes before the United States Congress and before the American public and he makes up the story of what I said. Made it horrible and vicious, not even close. It's not like, gee, he missed a couple of words. He missed every word, he missed every. He made it up, it was fiction. It's unbelievable. And honestly, I don't know Congressman, but are you immune from something like that? That should be a crime. That should be a crime. Anyway, that's why tomorrow I need you to send the radical Democrat establishment a loud and clear message. You are going to fire your Democrat governor who has done a lousy job and sent a great Republican to the governor's mansion. When John Bel Edwards ran for office, he made your state a sacred promise that he would not raise your taxes. Then he got elected and broke that promise by ramming through the largest tax hike in your state's history, John Bel Edwards.  And you know, because the state obviously likes me, I think I won like by. A lot. I don't even know why the hell you like a guy that lives on Fifth Avenue, but I like you too. But I used to go to construction sites, my father would be putting up houses or building and I'd go and work with the workers. And that's when I realized these are the people I love. These are the people. These are the real people. I know them all. I know the good ones, I know the bad ones, I like those workers. But John Bel Edwards, lie to the people of Louisiana while every other state is making massive job gains, you don't even notice. Edwards terrible policies are killing jobs across your State. Edwards is now trying to destroy Louisiana's energy sector, you know that. Right? With threats and lawsuits inspired by the radical left wing, Washington activists and Democrats. What he's doing? Right? John Bel Edwards, not good. Goes around saying, ""I like Trump very much. He's very good."" But behind my back, he doesn't like me. Friend of mine knows him well, he said, ""Behind your back, he's not so good."" John Bel Edwards was a super delegate for crooked Hillary Clinton and he supported -- by the way, it looks like Bernie lost his chance. Right? Bernie was hitting a baseball today to show how strong he was. They just wasn't a lot of bad head speed. Bernie get better for -- but Bernie I just suck -- I get better work, get better fast. It's only time I've ever said anything good about him. But -- but boy did they take advantage of him four years ago and he let him do it. You can't do that. You can't let people take advantage. He figured out wait four years, it's a little bit tough. But it looks like, you know when Bernie gets out, which seems inevitable. When Bernie gets out, it looks like those will go to your radical leftist Elizabeth Warren. Right? And that unfortunately, will be the end of sleepy Joe because I would really, probably, most like to run again. I don't know, it's sort of any and I don't care. Whoever it is, just put him out there. Let's get this thing going. But John Bel Edwards supported far left candidates like Stacey Abrams. Our friend, Brian Kemp, he did a number on Stacey Abrams. She's still saying, ""What happened? What happened?"" She had Oprah. You know, Oprah used to be a very good friend of mine. She used to go to Mar-a-Lago, place I have in Palm Beach. She loved Mar-a-Lago, she loved the key lime pie. She did. No, so do I. She loved the key lime pie, but she used to go. She loved me until I decide to run for office. But she went to Georgia and she campaigned for Stacey. And Obama went and Michelle Obama went and they campaigned. And all Brian Kemp had was Donald Trump. Now, we had a rally at the airport and there were 55,000 people at that rally. That was the day before, maybe two days before the election. I said Brian, ""Congratulations. You're going to win, you're going to win."" And he won by two and a half points, which was amazing. Every star, everybody went down there for Stacey Abrams. Louisiana cannot take four more years of a liberal Democrat governor raising your taxes, killing your jobs, attacking your industries and taking money from open borders extremists. How about these people? They want open borders. Let everybody come in, let them all come. Tomorrow, you've got a vote John Bel Edwards out. And the way you do that is before the game you got to get going. You got to just leave it an hour early, maybe even a half an hour. Ten minutes, I don't care. Be late for the game I couldn't care less. But you got to vote before the game. And what it is? Just so you understand, it's a runoff. So if he does, he get 50% then one of our two great candidates will win, that. And it'll be John Bel Edwards against one of our two great guy and they're both great people. They're great. Ralph Abraham and Eddie Rispone. Ralph Abraham and Eddie are both pro-jobs, pro-worker, pro-family, pro-life and they're pro-Louisiana energy if that's okay. You know, I was here a couple of months ago and they opened the biggest LNG plant I have ever seen in my life. Right? Were you there? And they've been trying to get this thing approved for years and years and years and they couldn't. And then President Trump came along and I got those permits so fast for them. These big energy executives were sitting back and they couldn't get it approved. Nothing they could do, wouldn't get it approved. Your governor was lousy, they were all lousy. Nobody could help. That thing was so dead and I came along and I got it approved and then the consultants probably called up these big energy executive, ""Sir, we were able to get it approved for you."" I never even saw these people, but I know it was a good thing. And they probably got millions in consulting fees. I'd rather give it to you people or rather give it to something charity, but they came along. I could just see, nobody knows consultants better than me. They make the environmental rules tough so you have to pay them a lot of money to skirt your way through, but it takes years and years and millions and millions. So I got that plant approved and I came down two months ago, right? Two and a half months ago, cut a ribbon. I'd never seen anything so big and now they're going to double it up, I understand. And they're building an even bigger one in another location of Louisiana. Right? They will protect your Second Amendment, our two guys and John Bel won. John Bel Edwards, when it gets close and they start calling from Washington and Juma and Pelosi call, ""We want you to get rid of the Second Amendment."" He's 100% going to drop the Second Amendment. You're not going to have the rights that you have or anywhere close. John Bel Edwards will not protect your Second Amendment. Our guys support your police, they defend the great workers and families of this state. If you want a governor who will fight for your values, get out tomorrow and cast your ballot for Eddie or Ralph. It's very important. Eddie and Ralph where are you? Eddie and Ralph, where are you? Come up, come up here. You know what? So here's the problem, we're on live television all over the place. They don't like this because they go up, they say, ""Put trump back on, he gets better ratings."" So I've been telling you, these guys, are the greatest. Here's the thing, I'm going to have let's say like a quick minute or two, but you're not allowed to hit your Republican opponent. You're only allowed to hit John Bel Edwards because he deserves to be. Go ahead. Go ahead Ralph. Go ahead. Is this incredible? Is this incredible? Yes. We need someone to do for Louisiana, what President Trump has done for the USA. We need a conservative, we need a businessman, we need someone who's not beholding the special interest. We need someone who will fight for Louisiana. That's why I'm in this race, folks. Let's go get it. Let's fire our John Bel Edwards and let's thank our President for coming down here to help us. I just want to thank the President for coming into Louisiana and making Louisiana we need him to make Louisiana great again and myself. Mr. President, we thank you. Thank you so much for taking care of our veterans, for rebuilding our military and for protecting our southern border. And Mr. President, I dropped a resolution to expel Nancy Pelosi from the House of Representatives. Go America, go Louisiana. Thank you, fellas very much. I appreciated it. OK. You got to do it tomorrow, let's go get a run off and both of these two guys are fantastic. Let's vote tomorrow for the entire Republican ticket, just vote. We're also delighted to be joined by two really good friends of mine. These are warriors, these are warriors. Different types of people, but equally, I mean, they fight for you and they love this state and they love this country. One hears a strange name when I first heard. He called me up, ""So they said there's a man named John Kennedy on the phone."" I said, ""Who?"" ""He's running for the Senate in a state that likes you a lot."" I said, ""Where?"" ""Louisiana."" And I said, ""Let me check it out."" And it was true, there was a man named John Kennedy, a very successful guy, a brilliant guy. You're not going to know what this means because I'm a big, like student. I like academics, believe it or not. People don't know. My uncle was a professor for 35 years or something at M.I.T.. I like that stuff. He went to Oxford. Oxford is like, as good as it gets. And he was a student at Oxford, you know he puts on that country's stuff all the time, about I want to tell you. And we know the country smarter than the other guys anyway. But -- so John Kennedy goes it, I'd love to have your support. I really love it if I could. But I said, ""John, to me, you're the real John Kennedy, you're the real deal and we came down."" It was I'll never forget, it was a Friday night, and it was this massive airplane hangar someplace. I don't know where the hell I, all I know is in your great state. And we had thousands and thousands of people show up. And I looked at him and I liked him and I looked at that crowd, I said, ""You know what? I think you're going to win tomorrow."" The election was on a Saturday and John Kennedy won by a lot. It was a great thing and a great thing for our country. Where is John Kennedy? John come here, come here, come here John. And then, we have another guy. Any time I talk about healthcare. Anytime, I want to know anything about medical, anytime I want to know anything about taking care of people, I call a man named Bill Cassidy. He's incredible. What a heart, what a heart. Come on up here, John. Come here John. Oxford. Is this incredible or what? I mean, is this Louisiana? Got -- I told you, Donald J. Trump loves Louisiana like the devil loves sin. Mr. President, thank you. Now Mr. President, earlier, I gave him a quiz. I imagined you were running against Joe Biden  and I asked him a set of questions who's more likely to secure the southern border, Joe Biden or Donald?  But there's one question I forgot to ask him, who promised to build a new Calcasieu River Bridge?  Two great men, two great men. Two great Americans. Another man who's very brave. He was really in bad condition. I was at the hospital that night that he was expected to die. He was looking too good that night. I have to tell you, I went there and the doctor said, ""It's almost impossible to save him."" And I must ask him today, I swear it. I think he's better looking now than he was two years ago. The greatest thing, he was playing baseball. He was shot while they were practicing, he was shot at second base, Steve Scalise. Right Steve? But the greatest story. The greatest story. So he's recovering and I mean he really -- I don't want to go into it, but he -- he had a lot of damage. And he went out and he played in the baseball game like six months later, seven months later, he could hardly stand up. And they had a bit second base, he didn't have big range. Like I'd say, range would be about six inches. And the first batter, rips a ground ball, right at him. I said, ""Oh, this is going to be terrible."" And he got down and he got that ball. And he caught it and he threw it the first, he could barely throw, he threw it the first and the batter was out of sight. That's like a miracle. The first pitch of the game. I said, ""How tough is that?"" I don't think anybody else would have been able to stop that sucker, that was hard hit. But he's a great friend of mine and he's another one. He loves your state. He loves you so much and he's really a brave guy, Steve Scalise, Steve. And then we have some other great warriors, great Congressman. Thanks, Steve. Great, great Congressman, Mike Johnson, Clay Higgins. Come on up, folks. Derrick Graves, Derrick Graves, what a group? They're warriors. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. They make our lives so much easier in Washington. We can always count on Louisiana. Can we stay here? You have a man who is your Attorney General Jeff Landry, he's terrific. And Secretary of State Kyle Ardoin, Kyle Ardoin. And you have an Agriculture Commissioner, Mike Strain, well known all over t"
"Wow. Thank you. Thank you, New Mexico. Thank you. We love being with you, we love being with credible people, credible people. Thank you very much and I'm thrilled to be here in Albuquerque, with thousands of hardworking, freedom-loving American patriots. Incredible. Thank you. We're all united by the same love of our great country, and by the way, our country is doing great. You see it. The same devotion to family and the same profound faith that America is blessed by the eternal grace of Almighty God.  Goodnight to that person. Tomorrow, they'll say massive protest. Now one person just going home to mommy a little bit sooner. Good night. But we're bound by these convictions. We will campaign for every vote and we will win the great state of New Mexico in 2020. And by the way, you have thousands and thousands of people outside who can't get in. So we love you, we love you, we appreciate it. We try to get the biggest arena we can get and they're never big enough, frankly, so there's something going on. You know I always say, 2016, I don't know if there'll be another 2016, but right now it's like a great tree or a great plant. You plant it and it has to take hold. We have to win 2020, we're doing so well, we have to win 2020. And every day, and you know as well as I do, we're battling against the corrupt establishment of the past and we're achieving historic victories for the American people We're winning again, we're winning again, and we're winning big, we're winning big. Crucially, for your state, we have ended the last administration's war on American energy,. And since by election, natural gas production, big story today, in New Mexico has increased by 40%, four O. And that means, great wages and it means jobs and that's why you're breaking every single record in your state's book. Crude oil production in New Mexico has more than doubled and going up a lot higher very quickly. On your state's energy revenues are up by nearly two thirds, think of that, two thirds and that's in a short period of time, OK. Give me a little bit more time, OK?  The United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. This means more jobs, higher wages and American energy independence, which is what we have. You know a few years ago, we had a problem, like you saw two days ago in the Middle East, we would have been in a panic, although not if I were your president, we never panic. We don't want to panic, but a few years ago they would have been in a panic. Today we had a lot of oil. We got a lot of gas. A lot of oil and gas. We don't have to send too many boats over there. You notice the other day. They were saying, We don't see too many American ships anymore. You know why? Because we don't need we're independent as independent as we want, and we are now a net exporter of energy. Revenues from energy production provide up to 25% of your state's budget and going much higher in the very near future and they've generated nearly a billion-dollar budget surplus in New Mexico. Thank you very much, President Trump. Thank you. Now, under the Green New Deal that all goes away, that all goes away. It all goes away. You can forget it. No more cowers, no more airplanes, no more trips. A single car, make it electric, single car, you're not allowed to travel more than 162 miles. They'll call us the hermit nation, we'll never leave our house. Now it's crazy, but that's OK. I don't want to bring it up because I don't want to do it too early, maybe they'll change. I don't want it to change, but think of it, for you and for Texas and for so many other places, they want to get rid of your energy. I mean explain that one, explain that. Yet every major Democrat running for president, they want to abolish your production of oil and natural gas. In other words, the Democrats want to completely annihilate New Mexico's economy. The Democrats want us to be subservient to foreign producers. They want us to be at the mercy of rogue regimes. That's not happening anymore. It's been a long time. It's been a long time. It's not happening anymore, but Democrats will never get the chance, because New Mexico will never give them that chance.  Under this administration, America is working again, America is winning again, and America is respected again, like it hasn't been for a long time. And I can tell you because I meet so many of the leaders and their presidents and their kings and queens, and the prime ministers, and their everything. Dictators, every once in a while, every once in a while, you get a rogue dictator and I'll tell you they always start off. Today I had the crown prince of Bahrain and they come in and they say, Sir, I'd like to congratulate you on what you've done with the economy of the United States. It's a model for the entire world. They all say it. And earlier today -- Do we have any baseball fans right, right? You know what I'm saying, but earlier today in the White House, I had the honor of awarding the Presidential Medal of Freedom. That's the highest civilian award to someone who truly embodies the American dream. Baseball legend, the greatest by the way, the greatest relief pitcher of all time, you look at those records, Mariano Rivera. He was something. The Yankees won a lot of World Series because of Mariano, a great guy. We gave him the medal. Done so much for charity. A fantastic man, fantastic family. It was a beautiful day at the White House, so it was good. My administration is fighting to empower all Americans to reach their dreams and achieve their potential. We have created six million new jobs since Election Day. The fake news would never have allowed us to say that during the campaign, even as a projection. Unemployment recently reached its lowest rate, in over 50 years. More than 7 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans came into the labor force last month alone, think of that. Wages in your state, New Mexico are growing at a rate of much more than 3% a year, which is unheard of 20 years ago, and I used to say during the campaign, you go back it's hard to believe, I'm here almost three years. Can you believe our time is flying? Can you believe? I don't know about me, but you look so much better than you did three years ago. You're wealthier and even with the Me Too movement. We can't say this, but I'll say it anyway, you're better looking, including the men, including the men, now you're, all looking good. Since my election, the number of new business applications for New Mexico has increased by almost 30%, more than any state in the United States. Think of that. More than any state in the United States. So essentially, that saying you're in a certain category, which is a very important category, you're doing better than any state in the United States. How do I lose New Mexico? Explain that one, right? How do we lose that one? No. And yet, for whatever reason, it's been quite a while since the Republican won this state, but we're going to win the state. I think we're going to win the state easily. Yet to see the people all the way in from the airport That was a long drive by the way, 35 minutes. That was a long drive, but all the way in we had people and they were waving and I didn't see any negative hand gesture, right. No, I think we're going to do great here and we're here for a number of reasons, but we're here, because we really think we're going to turn this state and make it a Republican state. Yesterday marked the beginning of the Hispanic Heritage Month. Who's Hispanic here? Latinos for Trump, thank you. Incredible people. But we have much to celebrate unbelievable when you think the unemployment for Hispanic Americans is, right now, at the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country. Hispanic-American poverty reached a brand new all-time low in history. And after years of stagnation, that you know very well, wages for Hispanic Americans are rising really fast, up nearly 8% since my election. Those are unheard of numbers, believe me. And median income, think of that, median income for Hispanic Americans surpassed $50,000 for the first time ever. That's your median, that's not bad. That means you're wealthy and you're getting wealthier fast. I just want to tell you it's an honor. But you know, when I'm on the debate stage, debating one of these far-left radical Democrats, whoever it may be, and they start telling you what they're going to do for you and you say, but we have the best numbers every category that we've ever had Hispanic Americans, excuse me, New Mexico as a whole. We have the best numbers. African-Americans, the best numbers that we've ever had in the history of our country. Asian-Americans, the best numbers that we've ever had in history. Women, the best numbers that we've had in 71 years. we're working night and day to deliver a future of limitless Opportunity for our nation's Hispanic American citizens, including millions and millions of extraordinary Mexican Americans who enrich our society and strengthen our country, serve in our military and contribute immensely to our shared American family. And I want to just tell you that Mexico is doing a great job for us on the border and I want to thank the president of Mexico. And that's very interesting, I hear everybody screaming. Well, you know we're building the wall and it's going up and it's going  And if you think that's easy with the Democrats, who control the House, we have to take it back, but if you think it's easy -- but we're building a lot of wall. We'll have almost 500 miles of wall built by the end of next year and it's making a big difference. Five hundred miles. But you know we want a big case two months ago, in the Supreme Court that allowed us to do what we're doing. This has been -- I'll tell you what. Ready? Another president would have given up a long time ago. We don't give up. So we're building the wall. The Army Corps of Engineers would do it a beautiful job. It's a great -- it's a great structure, great structure. You're going to have to really want to get over that wall to do it, but you know it was very interesting because not too long ago, I saw where the Hispanic American, the Hispanics were up with me in A poll 17% and everyone said how is that? How was that 17%? Up by 17? I won't even tell you what the final number was, because they won't believe it, but you're going to see what the final number. But you know why? Because the Hispanic Americans, they understand, they don't want criminals coming across the border, they don't want people taking their jobs, they want to have that security and they want the wall. They want the wall. And we have a man in the audience. Who is, I think, the best dressed man in this entire place, including me right here. Look at him. Come in. Look at him. Look at this guy and he's been to a couple rallies to haven't you, huh? We have some people, a group of people the other day -- You know we had a victory in North Carolina that was unbelievable, two of them. One of them was going to be very, very close, he's another one of my friends. Thank you. I like that beautiful red tie you're wearing. But we had a victory. Two victories, North Carolina, where one was 17 points down three weeks ago we got involved. We started sending out lots of different social media messages. We did a couple of little robo calls, but the big thing we did a speech the night before the turnout was beyond belief and instead of being down by 17 points, he easily won the election 4 or 5,000 votes. Dan. Thank you, Dan. Thank you, Dan Bishop. And Greg Murphy was up a couple of points and he ended up winning. I don't not ask the media, but they won't give me -- How many -- What did he get? You know like 20, 21. He won by a lot. He won by a lot. I'd ask that, but we're not going to get a straight answer. They were not happy. I'll tell you, Tuesday night, the fake news was not happy. You know they had their studios all built. CNN had their A-list talent, they don't have A-list talent, but they had the best they could. And they were all set, This was going to be the end of Trump because this man was going to lose, but he turned out to be tough and smart. And in all fairness I helped a lot to and toward the end of the night they started dismantling that studio, probably would have been there for four weeks. This is the end, but we had two great victories congressional victories on Tuesday night, and it was something that one gentleman won by a number that nobody thought even possible, so much, and the other one a race that he was way, way, way back. In fact, I shouldn't tell you this, but my genius is my people, some of those people standing right there. Right there. Some of them right there. They said, Sir, don't get involved in that race, sir. You can't come back from 17 points, sir. It's too much, I said, But you know I really like the guy. I think he's great. Let's give it a shot, they say, Sir, if you lose, they will never ever it'll be much worse. I said, let me tell you, I know them very well. Whether I helped him or don't help him it's going to be the same. It's going to be a disaster, so let's help them. And we campaigned and we worked hard, right? They said, don't do it, sir. Don't do it, please don't do it, sir it'll be very embarrassing. I said, No, I don't mind being embarrassed. I don't mind being embarrassed. We're also very proud that unemployment among Native Americans has reached the lowest rate in nearly two decades. And we're building an amazing future for citizens of every background race, religion, color, and creed. And that's what we have, that's what we have: race, religion, color, and creed. But the radical left Democrats want to demolish everything that we've gained. They want to raise your taxes, they want to bury you in regulation. They want to take away your health insurance, 180 million Americans. They want to erase American history, crush religious liberty, indoctrinate our students with left-wing ideology, and left-wing Democrats want to confiscate your guns and eliminate your God given right to self-defense. You know that. As your president, I will never allow them to take away your liberty, your dignity, your Social Security, and I will never ever allow them to take away your sacred right to keep and bear arms. The Left tries to threaten bully, intimidate Americans into submission. They use Democrat prosecutors and phony congressional committees whenever they can they'll do whatever they can to demean you, to libel you. You they try to blacklist coerce, cancel or destroy anyone who gets in their way. Look at what they're doing today to Justice Kavanaugh. Look at what they're doing. Did you see the New York Times? Did you see what they're doing? Did you see what Democrats -- They're calling for his resignation, they're calling for his impeachment. And the woman involved said she didn't know anything she does, but they still -- So the New York Times had to put out a major apology and they had to change their story. The woman said, I don't remember that. Can you believe? And they still want him to be impeached. And I just put out a statement, and he's a great man by the way, great talent, a great brilliant man, Brett Kavanaugh. And I just put out a statement on social media. That said, I don't think they'll do it, but they should for the good of the nation. I call for the resignation of everybody at The New York Times involved in the Cabinet Office  , and while you're at it, the Russian witch hunt hoax, which is just as phony as story. They've taken the old gray lady. You know the New York Times for years, the old gray ladies, so prestigious. They've, taken the old great lady and broken her down, destroyed her virtue, and ruined her reputation. She can never recover and will never return to greatness under current management. The Times is dead. Long live the New York Times, long live the New York Times. And I do want it to live, but they have to be -- they have to change their ways. Think of it, they wrote a story about somebody that said she doesn't remember this. Can you even believe it. And yet all of these radical left crazies are in Judiciary Committee and all of these committees that is set up to hurt the country with all that we have going with Saudi Arabia, with, Iran, with China. Trade deal with Russia with North Korea, with all that we have gone, and look at the cards that we've been dealt. Lucky, we won the election in 2016. Believe me. With all that we have going, they say, let's impeach Justice Kavanaugh, one of the smartest, most brilliant students, top at Yale, incredible life, incredible family, Let's impeach him, it's a made up story. Let's impeach, President Trump. Think of that. The Muller report came out. Think of this. This crazy Muller report comes out, 18 Trump haters, liberal Democrats, some work for Hillary Clinton. They found nothing. No, think of it. After two years, they found nothing, they spent $40 million, there's not a person in the room that I couldn't find something on with that. They spent -- think of it. They found nothing, no collusion, no obstruction, no nothing. To stop the far lefts' campaign of destruction, you must vote Republican and you're going to get the chance very soon. We're joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders and somebody that's done an incredible job. She ran Michigan for me and, as you know, for the presidential races Michigan had been one in decades and she kept saying, Could you come back, sir? I didn't know who she was. I said, Who the heck is the woman in Michigan that keeps asking? She said, Sir, you keep coming back, you got to win Michigan. Has it been one in decades, and I won Michigan. Remember that great, great  Great, great night. Donald Trump has won the great state of Michigan and they were going crazy on television. They were going. That was not a good night for certain people. Remember the -- the couple of people that were crying? I guess they don't like a strong military, they don't like cutting regulations, they don't like low taxes. They don't like right to try. You know right to try? All these things we've done. For the vets, we got Choice. We got Choice for the vets. Choice. Everybody said it was impossible. We've rebuilt, our military. I told this story for the first time today. A general came into my office and my first few weeks you remember it was a little dangerous out there. President Obama left us with a few beauties, right. And I said to this general, You better be prepared, because this is looking like it could really be conflict and he looked at me and he goes, Sir, we have very little ammunition. I said, Say it again. And I want to tell you the words very little he didn't use because he was less than that. And I said, I never want to see a president in a position like that, where we may have conflict and a general looks at him and said we have very little, slash, no ammunition. I never want a president of the United States to be in that position and since then, three years, $700 billion we've spent, then $716 billion, and now $738 billion and our military is by far the greatest in the world. There's nobody that even comes to it.  So anyway, no president should ever be put in that position. And by the way, no president should ever have to go through what I've gone through either. That should never happen. What happened is a disgrace to our country. No president should ever have to go through and I'll tell you what, 99% of them would never have been able to take it. They wouldn't have been able to take it, but we won the great state of Michigan and now we're doing really well, because we've moved a lot of car companies. I tell Japan, sorry big deficits with all these countries, we're changing it, but you got to get car companies we're building car companies now in Michigan they're not going to be leaving for lots of other countries, including China, including Mexico, they're, going to stay home and they're going to pay you a lot of money and everybody's going to be happy, but Michigan is doing great and Ronna McDaniel was the Republican Party Chair of Michigan. So when we won the election, I said, Let's get the woman from Michigan to run the RNC and she has done an incredible job. Thank you Ronna. A great gentleman who loves the Republican Party co-chairman, Tommy Hicks. Tommy. What a job. New Mexico Republican Party Chairman, Steve Pearce. My friend, and a really talented guy. He just gets a hell knocked out of him all the time. Brad Parscale, what a job he's doing. Brad. Great job, Brad. Great job. And another great friend of mine, somebody that was on CNN and they didn't like him because he was too positive on Trump. Can you believe it? He happens to be Hispanic, he happens to be Hispanic, but I've never quite figured it out because he looks more like a wasp than I do. So I haven't figured that one out, but I'll tell you what, there is nobody that loves his country more or Hispanic more than Steve Cortez. Steve. Thank you, Steve. Nobody loves the Hispanics more. Who do you like more the country or the Hispanics? He says the country, I don't know. I -- I may have to go for the Hispanics to be honest with you. We got a lot of Hispanics, we love our Hispanics, get out and vote. You know just before the last election, the Cubans from Miami, where we got a tremendous percentage of the vote close to 90%. They gave me the Bay of Pigs award. Can you imagine, right? The Bay of Pigs award. And the Venezuelans and the Cubans are all for Trump. I will tell you that. They're all for Trump, they like what we're doing. With the help of -- and Steve I want to thank you very much, by the way, and you were incredible on CNN and now you'll get a real job, OK? Steve, that audience wasn't big enough for you. Their ratings aren't good. With the help of everyone here tonight. We're taking power out of Washington and giving it back to the great people of our country and to the people of New Mexico. We've got a record number of job-killing regulations, saving the average American household $3,000. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history, and what that means is a typical family of four in New Mexico, making $75,000 dollars has seen their tax bill reduced by more than $2,000. And it's one of the reasons that as the world is not doing great, you look at Europe and you look at Asia and China is not doing too well. I must be honest with you. Worst year in 57 years I'd say, that's not good, but I hope they still like me. And we've taken in tens of billions of dollars worth of tariffs and we've given those tariffs -- and by the way, China's eating the tariffs that devalue their currency. The prices are very similar and they're eating the tariffs. And out of the tens of billions, we gave our great farmers because they were targeted by China, because China knows, very smart that the farmers love Trump and Trump loves the farmers. I said to our - I said to our secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, I said, Sonny, how much did the farmers get hit by -- by China targeting them and pulling back and doing all sorts of things? He said, $16 billion. I said, That's OK, we'll take $16 billion out of a much, much, much larger number. We're going to give it to the farmers, so that they're even and I tell you, the farmers do love Trump. They do love Trump. And to keep New Mexico's farms. Ranches and small businesses in the family, we eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax so that you can now give your farm on your ranch to your children. If you don't, like your children, don't do it, but when it's your time to kick the bucket, you worked hard, you have great kids, you love your kids, they've taken care of you. You really love them. It's a great thing, if you don't love them, don't even listen to the last line because it won't matter, don't leave it to them. If they're not good, leave it to charity, Leave it to something else, don't do it. I know a guy, can't stand his children, they're horrible, horrible human beings, they're a little older now, but they're horrible human beings. He wants to leave his wealth. They said, Why would you leave that, they don't even like you? But on the assumption that you love your children, you'll be able to use small farms and your ranches and things you'll be able to leave them to your children. Your children won't have to go out and borrow a fortune to pay tax. They won't be losing it to the banks. Five years later, we got rid of it. That's a big deal. Thank you. Thank you. Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro jobs, pro family, pro growth, and 100% pro-American. For many decades our leaders put global interests and special interests ahead of your interests. You know that. In New Mexico, you know exactly what I'm talking about. People came in, they took your jobs, they had no border, they had no border control. Look -- look at what's going on now. How we're doing, I mean, honestly, I mentioned the president of Mexico. We have today 27,000 Mexican soldiers on the border, protecting our country and I'll take it. Because our laws are so bad, they're so pathetic, and the Democrats could change these laws. They could change him so quickly. We could change them all in less than an hour. We could do -- whether it's asylum, whether it's -- any of the laws. We have so many of them that are so bad -- how they got that it took years and years to end up, but we have the Mexican soldiers out there. You see him and they're stopping people. They're numbers are plummeting down, so I just want to thank all of the representatives of Mexico. Amazing. But we've got to get rid of the loopholes. You know, the word is loopholes and the Democrats could do it fast, but in the meantime, we're doing really well. And as the wall goes up, it becomes less and less of a problem because as the wall gets up, people aren't getting through. I mean, you got to be a a world-class pole vaulter or a world-class Mt. Everest type climber, there's one not too many around like that. It's really doing the trick. The failed liberal establishment in Washington squandered your tax dollars, shipped away your jobs, sacrifice your sovereignty, and bogged us down in one foreign war debacle, call it whatever you want, after another and that's changing also, you see what's happening. And when these rich countries think we're going to pay for their military every year, billions and billions and billions and they're rich, and they take our business and we're supposed to on top of everything else, I could tell you stories, but I'm going to save them for the campaign, you know, because to be honest, this is a little earlier than the campaign. Later this campaign starts. You know, like, I was telling Brad and I was telling a few of the folks, One thing I don't want to do -- Michael back there. Michael, hello, my, what a job he's done. But I'm telling them. I don't want to do this too early. I don't want to do it. You know the Pocahontas thing, I did that, it was before his time. Right? It was before his time. Too early. One thousand twenty four. That means, I have more Indian blood than she does and I have none. Unfortunately, I'd like to say I have a lot. Either get me another 4%, maybe another 10%, but I was early with her and frankly, oh, it's coming back, don't worry about it. But those days are over under this administration. We are finally putting America first. Putting it first.  We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that ravished our industries and devastated communities all across our land. You see the factories, empty buildings, empty hulks, some have been demolished, some have been reek, inverted into senior citizen housing and housing, but all those jobs are gone and we're bringing them back. They're coming back like almost never before, probably, I can say they're coming back, like never before. People are coming back now because they want to be where the action is, and this is the country where they have the security and where they do have the action. In my first week in office, I proudly withdrew. From the last administration's job destroying cap -- and this was a catastrophe. You know the Trans-Pacific Partnership? TPP. This would have destroyed the automobile business in our country. Now, New Mexico, you know that you were totally devastated by another disaster, known as NAFTA. Your state lost 33% of its manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed. This was one of the great catastrophes and now we're replacing NAFTA with the brand new U.S-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, Think of the song YMCA, YMCA, think of the song, USMCA. That's U.S-Mexico-Canada Agreement and it's drawing strong bipartisan support from all across your State and all across the country, it's amazing. I want to just -- yeah. The Doa Ana county Board of Commissioners' all Democrats, just unanimously endorsed the USMCA and urged Congress to pass it immediately. Thank you very much, commissioners. All Democrats. Hopefully, they'll put it up for a vote. Nancy Pelosi, they put it up for a vote. It's going to be very popular, but Republicans love it and the Democrats love it. And frankly, Labor loves, it. Unions, love it. Farmers, love, love, love it and everybody wants it, your farmers, your ranchers, everybody wants it. It's an incredible agreement and Mexico's already passed it and Canada is ready to pass it soon as we do. See, they don't, maybe, trust us, that's why. As I warn you passing it now, they say, oh we'll pass it, they're going to pass it as soon as we do. Past leaders invited China to freely loot and pillage the United States economy. China has been taking out, from 300 billion to $500 billion a year, billion, not million, billion. Think of what $500 billion is. We've rebuilt China, but now it's a different ballgame somebody had to do something with China. President Obama should have done it. Presidents Bush should have done it. President Clinton should have done it. They all should have done it. Frankly, they all should have done a lot of things that we're doing right now. So if you look at it, nobody did it. So I'm doing it and that's what's going to happen, we're doing well. So now we're taking in billions and billions of dollars from China, when in the past we never got 10 cents, we never got money, we never got anything. You know we got unemployment and losses and some G pencils more than we needed. You could do with one less pencil. Following decades of outsourcing and offshoring. Our jobs and factories and coming back home where they belong. If foreign companies do not want to pay our tariffs, there is one very simple solution come and make your product in America come and make your product in New Mexico. And by the way, I'm just seeing this great group of people. The spirit -- Is there any place in the world that's more fun or more exciting than a Trump rally? Really. When you think about it, it's not about fun. It's about achievement, because what we've achieved in the last almost three years is unparalleled. There's never been an administration that in the first two-and-a-half years has done what we've been able to do or achieve. In a few short weeks, we'll be up to 180, sounds impossible. Federal judges, including court of appeals, judges, because President Obama did us a great favor when I came in, I said, I assume I have no judges to appoint. No sir, you have 138 judges. 138, didn't put them up, couldn't get them approved. I don't know what happened, but we started off with 138. Now we're up to 180. I just signed my 150th federal judge and court of appeals judge, and we already have two great Supreme Court justices, lawsuits and cabinet. Great, great men. So think of that. You know you come in, and I've always heard the most important thing. A president does. I disagree with this by the way, but that's OK. I disagree with a lot of things because I think the most important thing is our military and protecting our country, right? But if you listen to the so-called Washington elite -- Now why are they elite? We do better than they do we're smarter than them. We make more money, we have better houses, we have better everything and then they say the elite. That means you're the super elite. I have always taken offense when somebody said, President Trump is tired of listening to the elite. I said no, no, I'm more elite than them. I mean, If we go by the old standards, our better houses"
"Wow, thank you. Thank you.  Everybody, thank you and Vice President Mike Pence, thank you very much. Incredible. And hello to Fayetteville. Hello Fayetteville. It's great to be here in North Carolina's 9th Congressional District with the hardworking patriots who believe in faith, family, God, and country. Thank you. Thank you. Tomorrow, you head to the polls to elect a congressman who always puts America first,  Dan Bishop.  I've just come from a meeting with North Carolina officials representing communities hit by Hurricane Dorian, and I expressed the unwavering solidarity of the American people. We are behind you 100%, 100%. The prayers of our entire nation, are with the citizens of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and everyone else that was in the storm's path, and I will say I was called by the government of the Bahamas and we're helping with the Bahamas. They were hit so hard. They were hit so hard. Who would believe it. We pledged the full support of the federal government through every step of the rebuilding process, and I will say North Carolina in our country probably, got hit the hardest. That was a little bit of a surprise, but I know one thing about North Carolina: you can take it and you'll build it quickly and you'll build it beautifully, and you'll be back sooner than anybody ever thought and it'll be better than ever, right? No doubt about.  I also want to give a special recognition to the many nongovernmental organizations doing so much to help people recover from Dorian. In particular, Franklin Graham, he's a wonderful guy and he's got an organization samaritan's Purse based right here in North Carolina and the work that Franklin and his family and all of those that are with Franklin Graham, we want to thank them. Special, great people. Great people. Thank you, Franklin. Thank you. Incredible job. He does such a great job all over, wherever there's a problem. You see Samaritans first and Franklin and his people. We love the people of this state and we will never ever leave your side. North Carolina will truly recover so fast, I know you people so well. Let's not even talk about it. Let's not even talk about it. We're here tonight to discuss the extraordinary progress we're making as a nation and how to ensure this amazing resurgence keeps on going and going strong. In just over two years, we've taken this big beautiful ship and it's being turned around very quickly. Nobody thought this would happen.  You know we won the greatest election, certainly one of them, but maybe the greatest, but we won one of the greatest. Let's say one, this way I won't be criticized. They'll say, ""You know George Washington had a great election too."" The fake news, right? The fake news. But we won one of the greatest elections in history and because of that, and you would be in big trouble if we didn't, I can tell you that. You'd be -- instead of going up, we were heading in the wrong direction. We have the No. 1 economy anywhere in the world and every time I meet a foreign leader almost every time they say, ""Congratulations on what you've done with the economy."" I said, ""I didn't do it. I just set a certain path. The people of the United States did it."" No. 1 anywhere in the world. And they tried to do the recession thing. You know, they tried to rush a thing, that didn't work. They tried many other things, I always say the media and their partner, the Democrats. I wouldn't mind fighting the Democrats, but we really have to look at as it -- to some it's the media and the Democrats. It's one and the same. We're rebuilding our military, defending our sovereignty and reclaiming our dignity as a nation. America is winning again and America is respected again. They respect America.  By the way, I have about like 10 women in the front row and you come from North Carolina and they travel all over the place. Hold up your hands. These are great women. I see them so much and I must say they have other things to do. They look rich as hell to me, I don't know. How many is this, how many rallies have you come to? They can't count it. They said all of them, except for two. That's a lot of rallies and it all emanates from this area. That's so great. Well, at least you won't have to travel so far for this one, right? Thank you very much for being here. We really appreciate it. Well, we appreciate, we appreciate it. Thank you. Really incredible people. But you know, we've created six million new jobs since Election Day, and I couldn't say that in my initial rallies, because nobody would have believed that. Six million new jobs. More Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our country. Almost 160 million Americans, nobody would have thought that was possible. We wouldn't have been able to say it, actually. We've now had 13 straight months of wage gains of at least 3%, so that people that work so hard, you remember I used to say during the rallies before we won, people worked two jobs, three jobs and they made less money than they made 21 years before, and now wages are going up, the economy is doing great and jobs have never been better. So importantly, more than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans entered the labor force last month alone. Think of that. And the unemployment rate for African-Americans just reached another brand new, yesterday, all-time low in the history of our country. How do you lose that debate? Remember I used to say, ""What do you have to lose?"" Well now you have the best unemployment numbers, employment and unemployment numbers that you've ever had as African-Americans, as Asian-Americans, as Hispanic-Americans. The best numbers we've ever had. And by the way, African-American youth unemployment has also reached the lowest level ever recorded in history and the labor force participation rate for women is at the highest level now in 15 years and soon will be 35 years, and soon, I promise, will probably end up being better than ever. I can tell you the unemployment numbers for women are the best they've been, now, in 72 years. So I always say kiddingly, I'm sorry I didn't make it historic, but you know what it's going to be historic very soon. That would be historic, guys.  Ad here in North Carolina over 230,000 more people now have jobs and small business formation has skyrocketed by more than 25%. There you go. But the radical democrats want to dismantle, demolish, and destroy everything that you've gained and they will do it, and it won't take that long and that's why we need Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy. We need them. We need them going down to Congress and helping, but they can do it. It's also why we need four more years. It has to see this like a plant. We've changed things right, keep America Great, we've changed things, but it's got to grow. It's got a develop those roots, and once it does ,it's going to be very hard for them to destroy what we've done, very hard. And that's really why I consider this election -- Look. We had a very, very special day in 2016. It was a very special time. A very special time. It's an incredible day,  an incredible month, an incredible year, and I don't know that you can ever compare anything to it. But I can say: this, 2020 is essentially just as important, because they'll try and take it away, whether it has to do with religion or evangelicals are here tonight and they're all over the place. And what we've done for them and for religion is so important. You know the other side, I don't think they're big believers and not big believers in religion that I can tell you. You listen to some of them. They're trying. They're trying to put out little statements, they're not working too well. Those statements are a little bit sort of not too good huh. What is the word we want to use here? A little -- No, no. They're pushing a little hard and it's not play, it's not working. To stop the far left, you must vote in tomorrow's special election, so important. Or get your votes in early. I think a lot of -- Who voted early for Dan Drescher? Well, that's good, but the big thing is tomorrow. Tomorrow's the election and you'll get out to protect your family. You must defeat open borders and you have a Democrat named Dan McCready and he wants open borders. He wants sanctuary cities he's not going to protect your Second Amendment he's doing nothing on your Sec -- You know North Carolina's, a very big Second Amendment state. And Dan Bishop, Greg Murphy, these guys, they're going to protect your Second Amendment, but one of the biggest issues in this election is, in fact, sanctuary cities. McCready supports sanctuary city policies that force prisons and jails to release criminal aliens directly into your neighborhoods. Get out, go ahead, go into the neighborhood. Go and -- What's your neighborhood? Where do you live?  Rutherford County. OK. So how do you feel about having them released? Hardened,  horrible criminals into Rutherford County. I don't think so. But your whole state, it's honestly -- Can I be honest? It's crazy what's happening. This whole thing with sanctuary cities and you go to California, which has so many sanctuary cities. They don't know, what's happening out there. You have people that want to get rid of those sanctuary cities. They just aren't able to do it with the people that get elected a lot of illegal voting going on out there, by the way. A lot of illegal voting. In August, McCready said it was quote, ""The right call to set illegal alien criminals loose in the great state."" I'm using the words great state, he doesn't, up North Carolina. With the support and encouragement of McCready's sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina have released thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into your communities, and you see it, you see it. The charges against these three criminals include sexual assault, robbery, drug crimes, kidnapping, and homicide, murder. Why would you do it? Why would you do it? What is it explain it just recently, Mecklenburg County set free, an illegal alien charged with first -- [Technical Difficulties interrupt feed for 135 seconds] Hello, North Carolina. Hello, Fayetteville. Hello, 9th District of North Carolina. Mr. President, we're not tired of winning. We want to keep on winning. And tomorrow, Tuesday, September 10, 2019, we're going to win the 9th District of North Carolina. We've all watched as the Democratic Party, the socialist democrat party, seeks the President's destruction every day. We've seen a dishonest media serve as their handmaidens and their allies in that mission. We've watched as the greatest fighter ever to occupy the White House has pushed them more. Mr. President, you don't need -- Mr. President, you don't need North Carolina, the 9th District. You got someone -- all right -- we got someone who  over here. Give him some space. [An audience member experiences medical distress] A doctor in the house, please. Doctor, please. Doctor in the house. Thank you. Take your time. Please take your time. I have plenty of time. Thank you. Take your time. Thank you, doctor. Take your time. People have been staying outside for two days to get in so this happens. Thank you. Thank you, doctor. Doing better? Good. That's good. That's good. That's great. That's really great. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. That's really great. Thank you very much. I guess Dan's speech wasn't so good. That's great. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you, doctor. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, law enforcement. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that person will be OK. Let's all say a prayer for that person to be all right. Yeah. Because that's what we do, we pray. And I share your values, I'm not ashamed of your values, I'm going to defend your values in Washington D.C. As this great fighter faces all those long odds. The Socialist Democrats, the fake media, the last thing he needs is for the ninth district to send him another Nancy Pelosi clone. President Trump needs nobody else in Washington who supports sanctuary cities and counties here in North Carolina or anywhere else. What's going to happen tomorrow, on Tuesday, September 10, is the 9th District is going to send the congressman with backbone, who can stand up to the smears and the lives of the lying, fake news media and support the President of the United States, as he keeps America great. And what I need you to do, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, I need you to vote. I need you to vote, but that's not all. I need you to vote, but beyond that, take a lesson from President Donald J. Trump. Don't rely on them to get our message out. Take out your phone go to votedanbishop.com. I'm going to repeat that, go to votedanbishop.com and right there at the top of that website, you're going to see a video featuring the President of the United States, telling you to vote for right Dan not wrong Dan, and right below that video, that little frame, you're going to see buttons three buttons to share that video. And you don't have to rely on that news media. You can use those buttons and send that out to all of your friends on Facebook, on Twitter or on email so they'll know that President Trump can have a fighter for the values of the 9th District in Washington D.C. Tomorrow's our chance. Let's tell him, let's show him, go out and vote for right Dan. Vote for Dan Bishop tomorrow, September 10. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President Trump. Thank you. Thank you, Dan. That was a good job. That was a good job. He means it too, he's great.  Get out and vote tomorrow for Dan Bishop, please. So we've had great support over the last six months, in particular, from a man who happens to be your senator right now, and we need him to keep going because he has been fantastic and I believe he's here tonight. I just came in. The weather wasn't so great to be traveling today. They said, ""Maybe we could skip North Carolina today, sir."" I said, ""No, thank you."" I said, ""No, thank you."" Can you imagine? And by the way, I have to say, we have a big crowd in here, right? You have to see outside thousands and thousands of people who couldn't get in and when people wait two or three days to come in and especially these first rows, I just want to tell you we really thank you. Incredible. But Thom Tillis has really worked with us over the last bit of time. He's recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities. That's a big deal. And hold them accountable for the lives that they've shattered.  But to pass the bill we need more Republicans tomorrow. There is another crucial, special election and we have a fantastic guy running in that one too, Republican Greg Murphy who looks like he's in good shape, but you've got to get out. So I want to introduce Thom Tillis and I want to introduce Greg Murphy and I want to thank you both. Thank you. Thank you, Thom, and thank you, Greg. So Greg Murphy is looking to, like Dan, cut your taxes, defend your Second Amendment support our policies. Really, really support our military and our veterans. We have rebuilt our military. Greg Murphy come on up for a second here. Greg Murphy. Come up, come up, Greg. Come on up, Greg. Come on up Greg just for a second, then we'll get back to business. We got to do this, and I don't know, he's been a great champ. Thank you, Greg. Come. Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, Fayetteville. Hello, Fayetteville. It is a pleasure to be amongst people who believe in God, country, and family. Our Democrats have given up on God. They've pushed it away from our country, they want to give our country away and they want to destroy the nuclear family. We have a President, a bold man who has brought those three principles back to our faith and to our country. We need to come out and support him. So I ask you tomorrow, tomorrow, please it was actually good for me to see that actually few of you have already voted, because every single one of you needs to show up tomorrow and support Dan Bishop as your next Congressman or actually me, if I'll be your next congressman, we are here to serve you. We are here to help our President and we are here to keep America great. God bless you all. Good luck tomorrow, Greg. Get out there vote for those two guys, they're terrific. We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many more terrific Republican leaders, a man who's really been stepping up to the front. He defended Justice Kavanaugh when he was treated so badly. I've never seen anything like the treatment that Justice Kavanaugh received. And everybody respects him and everybody likes him and I like him, and we used to fight like hell, right? We do. But we don't fight anymore. We like each other a lot and he's a special man and he's become a special friend. Senator Lindsey Graham. Another man, who's a fighter. I guess we're all fighters, you have to be a fighter you're not going to be here very long. I can tell you that. We got to fight them more than anybody else. But a man who has done an incredible job in Washington took over a rough situation and he's become the real leader. He is a leader like you haven't seen and that's Republican Leader, Kevin McCarthy. Kevin. Kevin is working so hard for so many different people. He wants to see Dan and Greg win so badly. Thank you for being here, appreciate it leader. Representative David Rouzer, David, thank you. David Rouzer. He's done a fantastic job. Our Lieutenant Governor, who is going to be, I think, a highly competitive candidate for a very important race, Dan Forest. Thank you, Dan. Thank you very much, Dan. We also have North Carolina Republican party chair, Michael Whatley. What a job he's done. And we have a man from North Carolina who loves the state, he fights so hard. He doesn't know what it is not to fight. You know what who I'm talking about? They got it, Mark. They're all screaming Mike Meadows. That's right. He's great. So many, Jim Jordan, Andy Biggs, gates, and I just got some -- by the way, Devin Nunes. How about Devin? He was out there when it wasn't in vogue to be saying that Komi was a stone, cold liar, and leaker, but he knew a long time. Devin Nunes, but Mark Meadows has been incredible. And do they love him in your state? Do they love him? Do they love Mark Meadows? Thank you, Mark. Also a friend of mine has been with us from the beginning, he's not a politician, but he might as well be one. He loves us, he loves this party and he loves your state, lives here, Louis DeJoy, one of the most successful people. Thank you, Louis and your wife is doing a great job, Louis. And a very special thanks to my son, Don Jr. and Kimberly. Great job. Did Don Jr. give a good speech? I heard that they all said he was on fire. Well, he's fighting. He loves this country. My son loves this country, my family loves this country and you know, two people from your state that the first lady before she was first lady, she said,  you know, there are two people that are unbelievable. You got to watch him. I said I'm not interested. I'm too busy? No, no, No, You have to watch him. I've never seen this so great they're, so smart, they love the country, they love you, Diamond and  They are incredible. Incredible people. Thank you very much. Thank you. What a job and they're doing very well. I have to tell you that.  Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.  And by the way, so is Doug Collins and so is John Ratcliffe. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. Two incredible fighters also. For decades, our leaders put global interests and special interests ahead of your interests. You know that better than anybody. And this state knows it better than anybody. They traded away your factories, sold your future, squandered your tax dollars, sacrifices your security and bog this down in one foreign debacle after another. But all of that has changed. You're respected again, they're all saying, oh gee, I hope he doesn't do this or that. They've taken advantage of us for years, and I have to say, sadly, in many cases, it's our allies that took the greatest advantage of this country. But now you finally have a President who understands that. I'm not supposed to be the President of the world, I'm supposed to be the President of the United States. To bring back our jobs from other countries, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We've cut a record number of job killing regulations. No President, no matter how long they serve, has gotten anywhere even close to what we've done with regulations and that's one of the reasons our economy is so good. And we have tremendous potential upward and China wants to talk. They want to talk.  China's lost three million jobs, thousands of companies are leaving China. The supply chain is crumbling because they can't pay the tariffs, and our country has taken over things that you would have never thought. As an example, hundreds of billions of dollars have been and are coming into our country in the form of tariffs and China's eating the cost, which the fake news doesn't want to tell you. And out of the tens of billions of dollars that we've taken in -- because of the fact that our great American patriot farmers have been targeted by China, they've been targeted, because they know the farmers like Trump -- I love the farmers, so they targeted the farmers and I said to Sonny Perdue, secretary of Agriculture. Sonny, how much was it? Last year and the year before, tell me. It was $12 billion and it was $16 billion and out of the tariffs that we've taken in, we gave to our farmers for distribution, hopefully, very good distribution, hopefully, very even distribution we've given them $28 billion so that their whole, so that their whole. Nobody would ever do that. Nobody would ever do that. I can tell you that right now.  And our farmers know we have to fight. I see it all the time, where some of the networks that are crazy, they have a group of farmers. In some cases they have groups of women, they say, ""What do you think of President Trump?"", ""We like him a lot. We're with him all the way."" And they want to turn off the cameras they go crazy, but with the farmers, you know that. You ever see that, the 10 women? ""What do you think of President Trump?"", ""We love him?"" Oh, I like to put you on television, I'll tell you that. and they can't turn off those cameras fast enough, but they said to the farmers, ""You voted for President Trump, are you happy?"" and every one of them said, ""He did things and nobody has ever done before?"" Who would think of getting 12 billion plus, 16 billion, $28 billion because they've been targeted? That's the amount. I asked Sonny. I said, ""Sonny, what's the amount they took out of our farmers, there was 16 billion and the year before, 12, and I said, ""Sonny, we've got to make that up."" and we made it up. Who would do that? Nobody would do that. First of all, nobody else ever had tens of billions of dollars pouring in from China because it's always been the other way around. China has taken advantage of our country for decades, decades, and I guarantee you one thing. None of these Democrats, whether it's Pocahontas or sleepy Joe, none of them, would be able to do a think about it, and nobody would ever think of helping the farmers who have been targeted by China. China made $500 billion over the last number of years. On a yearly basis, they steal our intellectual property, so many other things. So now it's just different, and now it's working the other way and tariffs are a beautiful thing when you know how to use them. They're a beautiful. And I want China to do well and I hope they do well, but they've had now the worst year in 57 years. I wonder why. I wonder why. And hopefully it all work out, we'll see we're going to be talking next week. We're talking now they're going to be coming to the United States in two or three weeks and we'll see what happens, but unless we're going to make a good deal or a fair deal for our country, let's face it. We cannot go back to a situation, we're giving hundreds of billions of dollars to China become standard fare not going to happen. We can't do it.  And we have many other countries also, but we'll worry about them a little bit later, plenty of others, plenty of others. They've taken advantage of our country, like you wouldn't believe. And I've been saying this for many years. I was saying this when I was a private citizen. They take our jobs, they make our product, they sell the product into our country with no tax, no nothing. So we end up with closed factories, no jobs, no taxes, no nothing. And these other countries gain as an example, Mexico, I must say. They've really helped us at the border. The Democrats will not do anything about these horrible, open loopholes, which would be so good. So we're doing it a different way and Mexico is now patrolling with 27,000 troops. They'd never had two trips to it. Our border. And you saw the numbers today we're down approximately 57%, but our country could fix it so easy if the Democrats would sit with me for 15 minutes, but they don't want to do that because they want to have open borders, they want to have drugs pouring into our country. You have to have a wall and you have to stop it and when you look at what's happening with human trafficking and it's mostly women, they traffic, in women, and they pour through our borders. Well, every inch of wall that we put up is vital and we're putting up miles and miles, and we intend by next year, at the end of the year, to have anywhere between 400 and 500 miles of wall built, and this is serious wall. This is the real deal. Serious wall. And I want to thank our new secretary of defense, Mark Esper, for the job he's done and he views it really as a national security threat, and you have to. What can be much more threatening than people that want to pour Across our borders and we have the worst laws, we have the weakest laws in the history of any country. You can't do anything to stop them. You have a program, catch and release. You catch them, and then you have to release them and they're supposed to come back to court in the next three, four, five, six years and nobody shows up and the Democrats don't want to fix it, so we're stopping them. So we don't even have to worry about court. We ended the last administration's cruel war on American energy. The United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. And for all of these crazy people, but they're not so crazy, they know what they're doing. They're talking about Russia, Russia, Russia. Russia's not too happy about that. Their primary source of income is oil and gas, and now we're bigger than Russia, bigger than Saudi Arabia, we're bigger than everybody, and we're doing great. So they're not exactly happy. The Russian hoax was a pure hoax. You saw that with me the other day, yet every leading Democrat running for President pledges to ban the energy that drives our economy and wage and under -- If you look at what's going on, your way of life is under assault by these people. I mean, I go out, and sometimes I visit these huge audiences and I wish we could have gotten a larger arena than this. We tried. I was even willing to stand out in the rain and get my hair soaking wet, but they said it was a little bit out of your district, And I said, ""I don't know if it looks good being out of your district."" But I was willing to do it. And I would have taken it, I would have been very proud to have done it. It would have shown it's my real hair, at least. It wouldn't be pretty. It's my hair, may not be great, but I will say it's better than most of my friends who are the same age, a lot better, a lot.  But I do, you know, we had a different location, as you all know.  And we said, let's do this one is bigger and we put screens outside for all of the people we have screens and loudspeakers and everything it's really amazing what's going on out there. But after years of building up other countries, we are finally building up our country, that's the bottom line. And the last administration, with Biden and Obama at the helm, they tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, you could have kissed many of your industries goodbye. TPP would have gutted the American auto industry. It would have been even worse than NAFTA, and we know how bad NAFTA was. All you have to do is even to this day look around at all those empty plants where people move down and companies move down to Mexico, not under the USMCA. We got to get Nancy Pelosi to put it up for a vote, make it bipartisan. She'll have tremendous Democrats support the farmers want it, the unions want it, the manufacturers want it, and by the way, 600,000 manufacturing jobs in this country, remember? You would need a magic wand. You can't do that anymore. Well, we did, but we've got to get USMCA put up for a vote by the Democrats, but in my first week in office I proudly withdrew from that job destroying TPP catastrophe. And we're replacing one of the worst trade deals ever made by any country. You can go back as far as you want, NAFTA. The disaster of NAFTA, so whatever you do, start talking to your people, we need a vote on the USMCA, that's United States, Mexico and Canada and they've already voted. They want it and we want it and it's great for the farmers, it's great for everybody. We're also aggressively combating a problem that you have in North Carolina, problem that we have in almost all states, the opioid epidemic. Last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug-overdose deaths in nearly 31 years and at the center of the American drug crisis is the border crisis. Criminal cartels smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across our southern border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl. A hundred thousand people a year die from what comes across our southern border and we can't get the Democrats to help us in sealing it even tighter. We got to get them, we got ta get them. So if you want to stop the drug smugglers, the human traffickers, the vicious MS -3 gang members, and by the way, thank you to ICE, these people go into those -- they go into those -- Yes, we call them nest [ph] he's a vicious, vicious people. We go into the nest with our ice people and you know for them it's another day at the office. There aren't too many people in this room that want to do it for a living. Let me see. That guy, good. Maybe him,  maybe her, right. Maybe her, but it's a rough job and they get so little praise for the job they do so dangerous. These are -- These are many killers in those gangs and we're taking them out of our country by the thousands and MS-13. And as you know, Democrats even want to give free health care to illegal immigrants. As long as I'm your President, I will never ever let Democrats take away your health care and give it away free to people that have entered our country illegally. We can't do a tremendous incentive to come in. Democrats also want to bring in unlimited numbers of foreign refugees from overseas all at the expense of supporting their own communities. Republicans, no matter what you do, where you are, we want people to obey our laws. We want people that are going to help our country. The Democrat Party has never been farther outside of the mainstream. Every major Democrat running for President supports a massive government takeover of health care that would raid Medicare forced private doctors out of medicine and lead to the rationing of life saving treatments. And you know they're going to take away your private health care, your private insurance. One hundred and eighty million people will lose with what they want to do. It's a disaster. You know it's like -- Did you ever really sort of feel where you don't even have to treat people nicely? You don't have any choice. You have to vote for me. I can leave right now. I can say, ""North Carolina, I've had it with you, I'm leaving right now."" And you know what, you got to go out and vote. What are you going to do, put one of these crazy people running our country again? But it's never been so far left. I told the story the other day about a businessman I saw one of the biggest in the country. You probably know his name, one of the biggest. He's hated me for 20 years that I've hated him also, OK, Now they're going to go out tomorrow, breaking news, ""Donald Trump, hat"
"Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you to Vice President Mike Pence, and hello Cincinnati. You know, I used to work in Cincinnati, and a place called Swifton Village. You know what that is? Swifton Village. It was good and it worked out well, and it gives you confidence when things work out well at a young age, and look what happened to all of us, right? Look what happened. Look what happened. But I was watching the so-called debate last night, and I also watched the night before, that was long, long television, and the Democrats spent more time attacking Barack Obama than they did attacking me practically. And this morning, that's all the fake news was talking about that. That wasn't pretty. Now we're doing good, it's great to be back in this state that I love. I love this state, very special, very, very special, on the banks of the beautiful Ohio River with the hardworking patriots of the American heartland. Thank you, Ohio. We love you Ohio. So we've got thousands of people standing outside, and I asked the officials, can we sneak some up along the aisles? Can they sit on the stairs? But I'll tell you what, this is some crowd, some turnout. We've sold tens of thousands of tickets, and you know what the sale price is, we keep it nice and low, we keep it nice and low. But there never has been a movement like this. This is a movement the likes of which they've never seen before, maybe anywhere, but certainly in this country. They've never seen anything like this before. You came from the mountains, and the valleys, and the rivers, and you came for, I mean look, from wherever you came from, there were a lot of you, and they showed up on election day. I'll never forget, a wonderful congressman from Tennessee, they have early voting, and one of the earliest places, great state Tennessee, and he said, he was in Pennsylvania with me, a great state, and he said you know, sir, I've been doing this for a long time, but I've never seen people like this show up for early voting, people that haven't voted in a long time because they didn't see anybody they wanted to vote for. Said I've never seen it. They have Trump banners, and Trump hats, and Trump buttons that I've never seen. And this great congressman said, I don't know, sir, but I can tell you one thing, if the rest of the country is voting like Tennessee is voting, you're going to win by a lot, and we won and we won by a lot. We won by a lot. Our nation is stronger today than ever before. We have the number one economy on earth. No economy is so strong. Were rebuilding the awesome might of the United States military, and soon it will be stronger, relatively speaking, than at any time in our history, and when we took over, it was depleted. We took over a depleted military. It's not depleted anymore, I can tell you that. Our spirit is strong, our stride is back, and our stand is clear, we are finally putting America first. About time. We've created six million new jobs since Election Day. Nobody would have thought that was possible. More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps, and they're happy, they're happy. 123,000 more Ohio workers are employed today than when I was elected, think of that number. And right now, Ohio is the most successful it's ever been in the history of our country. Thank you. Congratulations. Ohio. Stand up Mike. And you have a good governor, I want to tell you that. Good job, Mike. Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over half a century, and unemployment for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans have all reached the lowest rates ever recorded. While Republicans are working every day to build up our country, the rage-filled Democrat Party is trying to tear America apart. The Democrat Party is now being led by four left wing extremists who reject everything that we hold dear. No one has paid a higher price for the far lefts destructive agenda than Americans living in our nation's inner cities. They have paid a dear price, you see what's happening, you see our inner cities. We spend billions and billions and billions for years and years and years, and it's stolen money, and it's wasted money, and it's a shame. For decades, these communities have been run exclusively by Democrat politicians, and it's been total one-party control of the inner cities. For a hundred years its been one-party control, and look at them. We can name one after another, but I won't do that because I don't want to be controversial. We want no controversy. The Democrat record is one of neglect and corruption and decay, total decay. The Democrats have taxed and regulated jobs and opportunity out of these cities, and out of existence. They've squeezed the blood out of them. Left wing mayors and city councils have opposed school choice, trapping children and failing in government schools left and right. So many of these mayors right now, you know what they are? They're in jail, that's where they are. Republicans believe that every parent has the right to send their children to the school of their choice. But the greatest betrayal committed by the Democrats is their support for open borders, and these open borders would overwhelm schools and hospitals, drain public services, and flood communities with poisonous drugs. It's tough enough, and I want to thank, by the way, the country of Mexico. They've got 21,000 soldiers on the border right now. I'm starting to like Mexico a lot. They do a lot more for us than the Democrats do, right? And the numbers are way down, you'll see that, way, way down. Democrat lawmakers care more about illegal aliens than they care about their own constituents. They put foreign citizens before American citizens. We're not going to do that. 572 people were murdered in Chicago last year.  You must have a Democrat mayor. You have a democrat mayor? Come on law enforcement. Democrat mayor.  Cincinnati, do you have a Democrat mayor? Well, that's what happens. You see, there are thousands of people outside, and I said, I agree. You know we set a new record tonight in this arena, but we could get, but we could get a few more on the floors, a few more up here, we could get, theyre outside where it's 100 degrees out, and they weren't able to let us go. And I said, is that run by the Democrats? The answer is yes. I said oh. So you got a lot of hot people outside, but we broke the all-time record. So, the homicide rate in Baltimore is significantly higher than El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala. I believe it's higher than, give me, give me a place that you think is pretty bad, give me a place. The guy says Afghanistan. I believe it's higher than Afghanistan in our country. Think of that. I believe, we'll check the numbers and, if we're wrong, they will tell us tomorrow, it'll be headlines. Trump exaggerated. I do believe the rate is higher than Afghanistan, yet Democrats, and theyve run it for many years, want to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on illegal migrants, instead of supporting their own struggling communities. No good, no good. The conditions in Nancy Pelosi's once great city of San Francisco are deplorable. They're deplorable. You remember the word deplorable? You remember when Hillary used the word deplorable? She used two words. She used deplorable and irredeemable, right? And only being a politician for a few years, I said, what a terrible mistake that she used the word irredeemable, but it turned out to be deplorable. Deplorable was not a good day for Hillary. Crooked Hillary, she is a crooked one. Crooked. Crooked. She is crooked. Nearly half of all the homeless people living in the streets in America happen to live in the state of California. What they are doing to our beautiful California is a disgrace to our country. It's a shame. The world is looking at it. Look at Los Angeles with the tents and the horrible, horrible, disgusting conditions. Look at San Francisco. Look at some of your other cities, and then you have a governor, you have a governor that invites the whole world to come in to California, well pay for your health care, well pay for  And then you wonder why so many people are coming up. Theyre coming up because were the hottest economic country in the world, but they're also coming up, because you have people like that governor saying, come on up, we'll give you a health care, come. Who wouldn't come up? Who wouldn't come up? How crazy is this? How crazy is this? Schools, health care. Today, I've a simple proposal for Democrat leaders to support legislation to end illegal migration, and we will use the vast savings to rebuild our inner cities. That's the way we should be doing it. Thats the way we should be doing it. And by the way, you know they keep talking about, oh the voters, the voters, the voters, they want all sorts of security. What about a thing called voter ID, voter identification? Rob Portman, please work on that Rob Portman. You have a great senator. Would you please start working on that? You see the response. Every place I go. Rob, please Rob, voter ID. They give you everything they can give you, except like voter ID, and the things that matter. Republicans believe that a nation must care for its own citizens first. Our pledge to America's workers has secured commitments to train more than 12 million Americans for the jobs of tomorrow. You know he's working very hard on that? You probably never heard of her. Ivanka Trump. Shes working very hard. She gave up a lot. She had a very easy life, but she loves doing it. She's got over, I think now, 12 million people. They're teaching them, the great companies of our country, they're teaching people how to do it, and it's an incredible thing to watch, to give former prisoners a second chance at life. We passed groundbreaking criminal justice reform that nobody could have passed, except us. President Obama tried, a lot of them tried, they couldn't get it passed. I got it passed with a lot of help from liberals and conservatives, and a lot of help, and the biggest beneficiary is the African-American community, biggest beneficiary. And something which a lot of people don't talk about, but we doubled the child tax credit, doubled it, and our tax plan also created nearly 9,000 Opportunity Zones, hottest thing going, providing massive new incentives for investment and job creation in distressed communities.  You OK? Take your time. Take your time. Doctor? Is there a doctor in the house? OK, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. Don't forget, it's 100 degrees in here. That person has been standing there for almost a day, if you think about it, a lot of you, so I appreciate it. And you know what? They'll come back, they'll get a little something, and they'll come right back, because there's never been anything like this. There's never been anything, right? Thank you. Incredible. We established more than 300 Opportunity Zones in Ohio alone, and these are really working out incredibly well. Nationwide, nearly 8 million African-Americans live in Opportunity Zones, but every Democrat voted against them, every single Democrat, because they vote as a bloc. It's the only thing they do good. They stick together. Their policys no good, they're lousy politicians, but they stick together like glue. That's the only thing they have going. Democrats deliver poverty for their constituents, and privilege for themselves. Republicans deliver job safety and opportunity for all Americans, and we're thrilled to be joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders, and we'll start off with a man who had a very, very tough race for governor. A lot of people choke, they choke like dogs, they can't breathe. They can't breathe. This guy was running against a so-called star.  So that's two protesters, and tomorrow night the headline will be, protesters, protesters. You know what happened to the second one? He looked at the guy in front of him, and he said, I'm out of here, bye. Thats the way it works. That's the way it works, I guess, too bad. But a man who really has done a fantastic job. He campaigned so hard, and this was a star right from the fields of the great Pocahontas, who's now lying and cheating her way to the presidency, if possible. She's trying to win. Remember? She defrauded people with her credentials. She said she was Indian, and I said that I have more Indian blood than she does, and I have none, I'm sorry. And we drove her crazy. And we drove her crazy. That's a good thing, not a bad thing, and she went out, and she had a blood test done, and it came out 1,024th. He said, somewhere back there, hundreds of years ago there may have been an Indian, or it may have been a statistical error, because it was so small, which it was. Anyway, but the guy was like from her group. You wouldn't be very happy right now, and we have a man that campaigned so hard, relentless. And I came in, we did a rally where we had people like this, it was packed the day before the election, and Mike DeWine won that election, and he won it easily, Mike DeWine. And we have a man who's running for governor of Kentucky again. And he's done an incredible job, and you know, did you ever hear, sometimes you can do such a good job that not everybody appreciates it, but they had a lot of problems with pensions, and a lot of tremendous problems that a normal governor would never have been able to correct. But when you correct it, you make yourself a little bit less popular, but he had no choice, and they had no choice. It's a great, great state, and he has turned out to be a great, great governor, Matt Bevin. And he's running in November, and because I like him so much, Matt, get a nice big arena ready, we're going to do a rally for you, OK? And a man whose fantastic son is here tonight, who I just met. Incredible. When I ran with him, he was down. I said. you know, Rob Portmans down, and then about four weeks later he was up by like 24 points. I said, what the hell did you do? And you know what he did? He does a great job, that's what he did. Senator Rob Portman. Great guy. And we have a few guys that, these are warriors. A couple of them you saw the other day. They were questioning Bob Mueller. That was a beauty. He was sharp, wasn't he? He was sharp as a tack. And Steve Chabot, and Brad Winship, and Warren Davidson, and Andy Barr, and a man named Greg Pence, who happens to be a brother of somebody I know very well, they have been with us through thick and thin, it's been mostly really good times Because what we've done, no other administration in the first two and a half years in history has done. Thank you, fellas, great job. A couple of them gave a grilling. They gave a grilling. All they had to do was mention the facts, and it was over. And also the auditor of the great state of Ohio, a man whose job I made much easier because you have money pouring in, you have companies pouring in, Keith Faber. How is it Keith? The numbers are good, Keith, numbers are good right? Yeah, the numbers are good. Ohio Senate President Larry Obhof. Larry, thank you, great job, nice style, I like Larrys style. And you have a couple of people that are very, very powerful. I hear that office and I shudder. Ohio Supreme Court Justices, Sharon Kennedy and Judy French, thank you. And please don't recuse yourself because I gave you a nice welcome should I ever be before you. I love judges when they see you for about two seconds and then you say, oh, that judge should be fair, and then they say I'd like to recuse myself, because 29 years ago I met Donald Trump. I'd never have been in love. You know we've been doing very well in the courts, by the way, have you seen whats  We've been winning a lot of cases, a lot of cases, we really have. We really have been. You know, we've now appointed 148, think of this, federal judges, 148. We're going to soon have, within about two months, Mitch McConnell, the Senate, Rob Portman has helped so much. Well soon be, listen to this, 179, percentagewise, it's the second most, we will never beat number one, sadly, well never be number one, so percentagewise, nobody's ever seen anything like it, and that's because President Obama basically was not able for about three years to get his people in, which is a shame. And I came in, I had 148 openings. I said, youre supposed to have none, I said, how many do we have? 148. I said, you've got to be kidding, and we've all done a good job together, Rob, it's been amazing, with Mitch and you and everybody, it's been amazing. So we're going to be up to, within two months, 179 federal judges. That's in two and a half years. And what else? Two great Supreme Court judges. Great ones, and there's only one person, I think most of you must know this, who percentagewise has done better than me with judges, tell me? Ill give you a hint. He appointed 100 percent of the federal judges and 100 percent of the United States Supreme Court. George Washington. That's one record we're not going to beat. But I appointed many more than him, so let's take it that way, many more. I also want to introduce a friend of mine who's done an incredible job, she's really something. She has been incredible as a leader of the GOP, she's the Chair, and she's my friend, Jane Timken. And a man Bob Paduchik, you know Bob Paduchik? So Bob, I had to pick a campaign manager, and I kept hearing from the media, you must win the state of Ohio. I heard this over and over for like a year and a half, you must win Ohio, you must win. So I had to pick a campaign manager, and I picked a man named Bob Paduchik, and no matter what happened, no matter how badly we were doing, he said, sir, you're going to win Ohio easily. I said, but Bob, we just lost the head of the GOP in Ohio. He left because you have a certain governor that asked him to leave. Great support from the governor, a different governor than Mike by the way, slightly. So he had to get out. So I said, we just lost and Bob said, don't worry about it, sir, you're going to win, in fact I think you just went up. Then we lost a couple of other people. Id call them, Id say Bob, I'm worried about Ohio, very worried. He said, don't worry about it, sir, I think he just went up. He kept saying, you just went up. I said to somebody, I don't know much about this guy, but boy, he's the most optimistic person I've ever met. And we, he said don't worry, we ended up winning Ohio by close to nine points, which is unheard of, so he was right. Bob Paduchik. Bob. And also here tonight, I don't know, did he do a good job, my son, Donald Jr. and Kimberly? I hope he did a good job good. Good. I heard you did, I heard you did a great job. He's been a great help, they both have, and thank you very much. Thank you, Kimberly. Thank you very much. Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100 percent pro-American. We've eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations, giving the average American household $3,000 more to spend every single year. The previous administration tried to shut down American energy, and close up, totally close it up, American, clean, beautiful coal. That's what they did. That didn't work out too well, but you had to suffer. You know what? It didn't work out well, but you yet to suffer for a long time until I came along. You're not suffering any longer. The previous administration, they liked windmills. You know, windmills. If a windmill is within two miles of your house, your house is practically worthless. They make noise, they're intermittent, they kill your birds, they break down all the time. You have to replace them every 10 years, because they wear out. And they cost a fortune and they need subsidy. Other than that, they're quite good. You don't want to have them in. You don't want one of those windmills within vision. You hear them, theyre noisy. Theyve got a lot of problems. No, we're going to stay with the great energy that's powering our businesses, that's creating so many jobs. And solar, you know what, we'll live with solar, but solar is peanuts by comparison to what you need. But we're going to stay the way we have it. We've ended the war on American energy, and we're putting our coal miners back to work, and our steel workers back to work, and our auto companies back to work. And you know, we've learned over the last three years the incredible gold that we're sitting on top of in this country, we're very lucky. We're now the largest energy producer in the entire world, bigger than the Soviet Union, formally. Remember the Soviet Union when it was all together, the Soviet Union, when it was all together, before they decided we got to call ourselves Russia, when it was all together, they wanted to be, that was always their dream, to be the biggest in the world. Then it became Russia, and you know what, they've done a good job with energy, and so has Saudi Arabia done a good job with energy, but we're now bigger than Russia. We are now bigger than Saudi Arabia by far. And I withdrew our country from the job-killing very expensive Paris Climate Accord. Last year, coal exports were up 92 percent compared to 2016, 92 percent, do you believe that? You're shipping it all over the world, to Vietnam. I was in Vietnam, and they said we get coal from Ohio, we get coal from West Virginia, it's the finest coal in the world. We've created more than 110,000 new mining jobs, and thanks to states like Ohio, the United States is now the number one producer of oil, the number one producer of natural gas, the number one everything having to do with energy, number one anywhere in the world. We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that led other countries to pillage our jobs, plunder our factories, and devastate Ohio communities and communities in every state. The era of economic surrender is over. When you look at what they've done to your jobs over a period of time, NAFTA was one of the worst deals ever made, and probably the worst deal. You still have empty buildings, empty factories, but now they're getting filled up pretty fast, they're being knocked down for brand new ones. We have hundreds of new companies pouring into the United States. My first week in office, I went through the United States from one of the last administration's worst sell outs. It would have destroyed our automobile industry. It would have destroyed manufacturing in this country, and maybe that's what President Obama meant when he said, you can't produce manufacturing jobs anymore in the United States, because he would have signed Trans-Pacific Partnership and he would have been right. I killed it. And by the way, TPP, Trans-Pacific Partnership, would have destroyed the automobile industry in this country. Already they ship down 30 percent of your jobs to Mexico. Under the new USMCA, that's Mexico and Canada, we've got to get them to vote on that, because that's an incredible deal, but under the new  It's gonna be very hard for companies to leave you, to fire you, to go down, to make their product whatever it may be, to send it back into the United States with no tax, al we end up with this unemployment and taxes and empty buildings. So theyve got to vote on the USMCA. Before I took office, foreign countries ripped us off, robbed us blind, and pushed us around, but America is not being pushed around anymore. Do you realize that? I think I got that from working in Ohio for two summers, right? We've taken the toughest ever action to stand up to Chinese trade abuse, and I just announced another 10 percent tariff on $300 billion worth of Chinese products that come into our country, and that's on top of the 25 percent that we take of $250 billion coming in from China. And don't let them tell you, the fact is, China devalues their currency, they pour money into their system, they pour it in, and because they do that, you're not paying for those tariffs, China's paying for those tariffs. For the last 20 years, Chinas taken hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars out of our country, and now we're stopping the theft of American jobs, we're stopping the theft of so many other things happening, including intellectual property. They steal our intellectual property. And you know, I think they want to try and make a deal with us, but I'm not sure, because the word is, I feel, they want to wait till they get, oh they're praying, they're praying. They would like to see a new President in a year and a half, so they could continue to rip off the United States like they've been doing for the last 25 years. They would love to see a guy like sleepy Joe Biden, who has no clue what the hell he's doing. They'd say to sleepy Joe, sir, just sign right there. Oh, OK, I'll sign. We've been losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year to China, and it has to stop. They understand that. President Xi is a good man, he's a friend of mine. He understands it, and until such time as there is a deal, we will be taxing the hell out of China. That's all there is, OK? If foreign countries don't want to pay a tariff, I have a simple solution, make your product in America, come on back to the United States, come on back to Ohio, there's no tariff, there's no tariff. Thanks to steel tariffs, hundreds of thousands of tons, think of this, were dumped on our shores, and steel is like something else, it's not quality, they were dumping garbage. They call it sand steel, they call it dirt steel, it was mixed up, it was bad stuff. And we didn't want to use that for our jet fighters and for our beams that hold up buildings, but they were dumping tremendous quantities of steel, and what was happening is United States Steel and all of our companies were going virtually out of business, and I stopped it. I put on a 25 percent tariff. Billions of dollars is now pouring into our treasury, and our steel companies and our steel workers are coming back. Right here in Ohio, Nucor, a great steel company, and a steel company that's doing great again, Nucor has announced an $85 million upgrade in Marion. Charter Steel announced plans to build a new $150 million steel mill in Cuyahoga Heights, and Cleveland-Cliffs announced a new $700 million plant in a very good place that I like a lot, Toledo, Toledo, Ohio. And this was unthinkable, because four years ago, steel plants were closing, they weren't expanding, and they weren't building. We're building new plants in Florida, North Carolina and South Carolina, all over, not just Ohio. On issue after issue, Democrats have forgotten who it is that they're supposed to represent. They forgot. I wonder why they forgot. The job of elected officials is to represent American citizens. The radical democrats even support deadly sanctuary cities which release dangerous criminals onto our streets, sanctuary cities. And many of the places that have sanctuary cities, and many of the people that live there, they don't want them, they don't want them. Theyre dangerous, they're not good. Here are just a few examples. In San Francisco, an illegal alien was arrested no fewer than 10 times in the span of less than one year for numerous counts of burglary and theft. Yet each time, San Francisco defied federal authorities and set him free, and bad things happened when they set him free. A sanctuary jurisdiction in California recently released a criminal alien from jail. The very next month the same individual was arrested for rape, and then beyond anything you would even believe, a horrible thing happened, but yet again he was released back into your community. After a sanctuary city in New Jersey released an alien charged with domestic violence, he was arrested in Missouri for the murders of three people. In the bizarre world view of the third and hard left, they have no problem destroying the lives of innocent Americans for a single, politically incorrect thought, but they want to virtually, and you know this, you know this, they want virtual immunity for illegal aliens who have committed horrible crimes and murder, horrible crimes and murder. Republicans believe our cities should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And yes, we just won a big lawsuit last week. In fact, one of my lawyers, for winning that lawsuit, is here tonight. I gave him a little reprieve. We need a lot of lawyers in the White House. We get sued so much, so unfairly, but we're winning those lawsuits left and right, but one of them is here. He said, I'd love to go to a rally. I said, I'm going to a place called Cincinnati, Ohio, you deserve it. We just won the lawsuit on the wall. Wheres Pat. We just won the lawsuit on the wall, you hear that? And we're building the wall faster and better than ever. It's time for Democrats to end sanctuary cities, and catch and release. You know what do you, do you catch him and then you release him, and you say, would you please report back in four years from now. But only two percent come back. You know why? Because they're not the smartest, they are not the smartest. They're, the ones we don't want to have come back. Only two percent show up. Catch and release. We could end it immediately if the Democrats gave, so what we're doing is something else, we're keeping them out altogether. We're replacing random migration, and we're replacing the lottery system. How about the lottery system? How about lotteries? This was Chuck Schumer. You put the name in a basket. The country puts the name in the basket, and you pick people out of the lottery. Well, let's see this one's a murderer. This one robbed four banks. This one I'd better not say. This one, another murderer. Ladies and gentlemen, another murderer. Think of this, do you think they are going to put their great citizens, they have great citizens, they have great people like we have great people. Do you think those people are going into a lottery? No. And then we get these people coming in, and we hold it against the country. The country isnt based on that, the country, you just take a look, look at the people they put into these lotteries. It's a disgrace. And how we've done this for so many years, folks, how we've done this. It's an immigration system, that's totally broken and we're going to win the House, we're going to win the Senate, we're going to win the presidency, and we're going to do a merit-based immigration system. Merit based. Merit-based immigration, and we need that, because we have companies coming in from all over the world, and we need good workers, we need good people. We're down to 3.5 percent unemployment. We need people, but we want people to come in based on merit, not based on some lottery put in by a government. Democrats have never been farther outside the mainstream. Liberal politicians want to eliminate private health care and force everyone onto the government plan. Remember the lies from the previous administration, if you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, 28 times, one lie after another, 28 times it was said, and it turned out to be a total lie. My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and doctor that is best for you. We're offering right now plans up to 60 percent cheaper than Obamacare, and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always, always. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion. And then you'll have like a governor of Virginia, it's not only late-term abortion, it's killing the baby after the baby is born. How about that? Think of that, think of that. That's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion and they're the party, frankly, of socialism. The Republican Party is the party of freedom. We're the party of the American worker, the American family, we're the party of the American dream. I'm fighting for you each and every day. I had a great life. I used to get great publicity. Nobody got better publicity. I had such a great life. It was so easy. My great wife, the first lady Melania, she said, she said you know, you've always been a hard worker, you love to work, but your life was a lot easier in the old days. But I love it, and you know I love it? Because we're accomplishing so much, nobody ever thought it would be possible to do the things were doing. Even a thing like Right-to-Try, right? Right-to-Try. They've been try"
"Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to Greenville, North Carolina. I want to thank you. And to Mike Pence. Done a great job. Great Vice President. Thank you, Mike. And we have all night. We have a lot of fun tonight. I have nothing to do. Nothing, nothing. We have nothing to do but make our country great again and that's happening fast. It's wonderful to be back in this beautiful state with thousands of hardworking, North Carolina patriots, and thank you for your support. And thank you for that very big victory we had three years ago. Time is flying. You're getting ready? Let's do it again, right? Let's do it again. I just heard that the United States House of Representatives has overwhelmingly voted to kill the most ridiculous project I've ever been involved in. The resolution, how stupid is that, on impeachment. I want to thank those Democrats because many of them voted for us. The vote was a totally lopsided 332 to 95 to 1. 332 to 95. Think of it, we have the strongest economy in history, the lowest unemployment numbers ever. We've rebuilt the most powerful military. It was totally depleted when I took office and now it's rebuilt. We passed the largest tax cuts and regulation cuts of any President or any administration in history. We took care of our great vets, including Veterans Choice and Veterans Accountability, and they want to try and impeach, it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace. So now we have that behind us. And I have to say this, and I'll say it just once, what happened to me with this witch hunt should never be allowed to happen to another President of the United States, never ever again. And I want to thank Republican leadership for what they've done for all of us by stopping that hoax, the Russian hoax, I call it. Because America is winning again. America is respected again, and because we are finally putting America first. Our economic policy can be summed up in three very beautiful and simple words: jobs, jobs, jobs. We've created six million new jobs since election day. If I would have said that nobody would have believed it. If I would have said that, the fake news would have said he's exaggerating. And I wouldn't have said it because I wasn't even sure we could do this. Think of it, six million jobs since Election Day. And by the way, North Carolina has had its best economic year in the history of your state. Our country has added more than 180,000 people to the workforce, and think of that, through what we've done on a federal basis, you picked up over 180,000 thousand jobs, North Carolina. Think of that. And you have the lowest unemployment rate. You have a lot of good things. But let's not talk too much about North Carolina. Let's win this election nationwide. You remember North Carolina? That was going to be the Clinton firewall. She spent a fortune here, and I kept coming in and coming out. They call it earned media, I earned it. I kept coming in and coming out and every time I left, I said I don't think we'll lose in North Carolina. You know what, I was right. We won it, we won it so. So, I just want to thank everybody. Seriously, this is a big -- that was a big deal. November 8. That was a big deal. Donald Trump has won the great state of North Carolina. The big deal. That was when you started to see the folks at a certain -- other convention, beautiful looking place. One of the most beautiful venues I've ever seen, but I don't want any part of it. It was unlucky. I don't want any part, but that's when you saw the people say, ""What the hell is going on?"", ""What's happening?"". And then it was state after state it was Florida, it was South Carolina, we love South Carolina, right? It was Pennsylvania. Remember, they wouldn't announce the numbers in Pennsylvania, so there was 1% of the vote remaining. If I lost every one of those votes, we still win by luck, and they wouldn't announce it. They wouldn't announce. And then we won the great state of Wisconsin, first time in many, many decades, not a Republican. And then we had a surprise but not a surprise to us, because we're bringing back the auto industry, brought so much back to the great state of Michigan, that was a shocker, remember that? You remember a certain hand on that beautiful board, and they said, ""You know, this Ford is getting awfully red."" That's Republican. There's a lot of red up there. We had a lot of -- that was one hell of a night, wasn't it though? I think it was -- maybe you know there are those that say one of the most extraordinary and exciting evenings in the history of television and the history of anything, and you know you can go? All over the world, in some cases it was morning you go to Asia, you go to Europe, you go all over, it was just record setting. And here's the point, we have to do it again. We have to do it again. And the reason we have to not only to do new things, which we will. And you know, statutorily, and we had all sorts of artificial witch hunts over our head. Can you imagine? If we didn't have to go through that hoax? I don't know that we would have done any better. To be honest with you, I think we've done more in two and a half years than any president ever -- first two and a half years. But could you imagine what it could have been if we didn't have the witch hunt? You said it. I won't say it because it's a terrible -- it's a terrible word. So I will not say that this guy said, ""If we didn't have the bullshit."" No, no. Could you imagine if we didn't have the time wasted, the time and everything. Can you imagine? And you know a friend of mine said? Maybe you wouldn't have done as well. Is that possible that can happen? Maybe we would have had too much time on our hands. Who knows, but I can say nobody in their first two and a half years has done anywhere close to what ""we"" not me, what we've all done. So the unemployment rate among African-Americans is the lowest in the history of our country. Unemployment, among Hispanic-Americans, where we're doing really well. You know why? Because they want a strong border, they want it because they understand the border better than anybody. They want that strong border. They want that wall, that's being built right now. They want that wall, and they really do. They understand the border better than anybody. And they don't want criminals coming in, they don't want crime coming. They don't want to lose their jobs. They like the fact that their salaries are going up, their wages are going up. They understand it better. So Hispanic-American, the best unemployment numbers in our history, Asian-Americans, the best unemployment numbers in our history. And likewise, women, 74 years, I'm sorry, women, I let you down. It's not in our history, but we're going to be there very soon, we're going to be there very soon. Women are doing incredibly. And we men, the men are going to get angry. Sorry, man. Whoa, look at all those signs. Women, Women for Trump. Well, thank you. It's a lot of signs. You remember last election? Donald Trump will never ever get the women. Then we get this tremendous number of women. We've got this tremendous number of women and during the election night they said, ""What's going on?"", You know what it's called? Suppression polls. Suppression. Polls are just as fake as the news itself, but women filled 60% and I'm sorry to tell you, these men, they are going to sue me for discrimination now. Women fill 60% of all of the new jobs created last year. Women took 60%. What's wrong with you, man? But the radical Democrats are trying to destroy all of our country's tremendous achievement and our country's tremendous success. Unprecedented. We've had unprecedented success. Leaders come in from other countries. Prime ministers, presidents, kings, queens, dictators, sometimes, I hate to say it dictators. And they all start off by saying, ""Mr. President, I'd like to congratulate you on the incredible economy that you've created, the greatest, anywhere in the world by far. And sadly, China, who I have a very good relationship with. President Xi, I really like him, but China has had, yesterday it was announced, the worse year in 27 years, and we've had the best. And if our opponent ever got into office, instead of being up 62%, instead of those 401(k)s of yours being up 60, 70, 80, 90%. Crash. Big crash. You would have had a crash, the likes of which we have never seen before if they got in office, because we freed up our country, we freed up our economy with -- especially with regulation cuts, but also with those big beautiful tax cuts. We freed them all. The leading voices of the Democrat Party are left wing extremists, who reject everything our nation stands for. But again, I have to tell you, this vote was so big. I have to thank many of the Democrats. I mean, that was amazing. No no. I really do, I respect it. I really do. That was a -- that was a s , but many of those people that voted for us this afternoon is somewhat of a sneak attack, a real sneak attack. Many of those people that voted for us were Democrats, and I want to thank them because they did the right thing for our country. Republicans know that America is the greatest force for peace and justice in the history of our world, but these left wing ideologues see our nation as a force of evil. The way they speak so badly of our country. They want to demolish our Constitution, weaken our military, eliminate the values that built this magnificent country. You have to look at some of their recent comments, which you never talked about. When you see the four Congresswomen. Oh, isn't that lovely? I'll give you just a couple. I have pages and pages, but we don't want to bore you. We wouldn't want to go too long, but we have to give a couple because that's the great thing about live television, they can't cut it. Representative Ilhan Omar of a really great state, I almost won the first time in decades and decades, Minnesota. Great state. By the way, I keep hearing how much enthusiasm is in the radical left. I don't think they have enthusiasm. They're just fighting with each other. We have all of the enthusiasm. He goes home now to mommy and he gets reprimanded and that's the end. Sorry, mommy. Sorry, mom. Didn't mean to embarrass you, mom. But it's true. We have the enthusiasm, folks. Look at this, look at this. And by the way, thousands and thousands of people outside, and people that couldn't get in, thousands. We've got all the enthusiasm, they're fighting each other. They've gone so far left. Nobody wants to even think about it. So Representative Omar blamed the United States for the terrorist attacks on our country, saying that terrorism is a reaction to our involvement in other people's affairs. She smeared U.S. service members involved in Blackhawk Down. In other words, she slandered the brave Americans, who were trying to keep peace in Somalia. Omar minimized the September 11th attacks on our homeland, saying some people did something. I don't think so. Some people did something. Yeah, some people did something, all right. She pleaded for compassion for ISIS recruits attempting to join the terrorist organization. She was looking for compassion. Omar left that Americans stick of Al-Qaeda in a menacing tone and remarked that, ""You don't say America with this intensity. You say Al-Qaeda makes you proud. Al-Qaida makes you proud."" You don't speak that way about America. And at a press conference just this week, when asked whether she supported Al-Qaeda, that's our enemy, that's our enemy. They are a very serious problem that we take care of, but they always seem to come along somewhere. She refused to answer. She didn't want to give an answer to that question. Omar blamed the United States For the crisis in Venezuela. We think of that one and she looks down with contempt on the hardworking Americans saying that ignorance is pervasive in many parts of this country. And obviously, and importantly, Omar has a history of launching vicious anti-Semitic screeds. And she talked about the evil Israel and it's all about the Benjamins, not a good thing to say. So, that's Omar, that's Omar. And by the way, many other things, all you have to do is press the right button on your beautiful screen and you'll see thing of -- you didn't hear this over the last two days, or did you hear anybody talk about that? Her colleague, Representative Rashida Tlaib agreed with Omar's characterization of 9/11 and said that members of Congress who support Israel forgot what country they represent. And Tlaib also used the F word to describe the presidency and your President. Isn't that nice, even for me, she was describing the president of the United States and the presidency, with the big fat vicious, the way she said it, vicious F word. That's not somebody that loves our country. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Check out her scores by the way with her new green new deal, the green new deal. Where did that come from? She's conducted outrageous attacks against men and women of law enforcement. She compared American border agents managing a humanitarian crisis that I always said was a humanitarian crisis, and they said it was manufactured. They don't say it was manufactured, and we're stopping it. And I want to thank Mexico. They've got 21,000 soldiers now stopping people from coming into our country. But Cortez, somebody said that's not her name. They said that's not her name, sir. I said, ""No, no. I don't have time to go with three different names. We'll call her Cortez."" Too much time -- takes too much time. So Cortez also, she said, ""Essentially, Nazis are running concentration camps. And when Mike Pence went down just a few days ago with members of Congress and the media, and you looked at those so-called horrible concentration camps, they said, ""Wow, these places are clean. Wow, they have air conditioning. They have water. And you know, to be honest, it's not like they came and we want to take care of people. We got to straighten out our immigration laws."" You know in a very short period of time, if the Democrats would give us a few votes, we could solve the immigration problem and it would be so great. But these kids and these people come from rough places And I'll tell you what, some of them said, ""We've never lived like this before."" They have water, they have air conditioning, they have things that they've never seen, and we listen to her talking about drinking water from toilets, which was a lie, which was a lie. Cortez said that illegal immigrants are more American than any person who seeks to keep them out ever will be. Can you believe that? That's what she's saying. She described contemporary America, that's you, that's me, that's all of us, as garbage, garbage, a garbage, Remember Deplorables, right? That sounds worse, I think, that's worse, but we'll save it for whoever is going to be the nominee. And right now, sleepy Joe's, not looking too good. Pocahontas -- Pocahontas is gaining a little bit because we probably use the Pocahontas a little bit too early. But that's OK. We'll bring it out of retirement very soon. They have a new one who knocked the hell out of Biden during a debate. He said I wasn't prepared for that question. That's not a good answer. Can you imagine? And according to the polls, I won every single debate, Republican and against Hillary. Can you imagine -- those are the polls. They won't admit that, many, many polls. But can you imagine if I said, ""Oh, oh, I'm sorry, I wasn't prepared for that question."" I'm -- I'm gone, That's the end of Trump. He's not prepared. He's not mentally prepared. That's his problem. But everybody that knows him knows that. But no, Harris hit him with a pretty easy question on busing. What? I would say, that's pretty easy. And he choked. He choked and then he said, ""I'm sorry. I ran out of time. He ran out of time. And then you have a young guy, Buttigieg, Buttigieg. They're saying how to say his name, boot edge edge. He's a beauty. He runs a failed city. His city is doing so badly. Mike Pence was the governor of that state. I said, ""How do we see us as the mayor?"" Mike is one of the nicest human beings you'll ever meet. He said -- And Mike said, ""He never did a good job. I'm so shocked to see him running."" OK. And then he goes back home and African-Americans literally were so angry at him for the lousy job, and he's supposed to be like a hot, young star. If that's a hot, young star, I guess, I just don't know stardom anymore. That is not a star. That's not a star, boot edge edge. You say boot, and then add edge edge, Buttigieg. I don't see him dealing with President Xi of China. I don't see him meeting successfully with Kim Jong un. I don't see him dealing, and nobody has been tougher with Russia than Donald Trump. I don't see him deal with Vladimir Putin, and we have good relationships with them and many others, except now we're no longer the suckers. Like with NATO, we protect Europe. We spend hundreds of billions of dollars, and they're not paying their fair share. So last year, I went and said, ""Folks. Sorry, you've got to pay your fair share."" Sixteen years, it was going like this, the contribution, And now it's like a rocket ship, $100 billion. And I said to him, great people, 28 nations, including the US, I said to him, ""Listen, we're taking care of you. You screw us on trade and you don't pay your military bills. This is not a good deal for the United States."" So we're taking care of trade. We wanted to do it nice and slow and easy. You know we had a world balance, but the European Union is terrible to us on trade, terrible. Frankly, they're as tough or tougher than China, just smaller numbers. That's the only difference. With China, $507 billion dollars. As you look over the years, for many, many years, they've been taken. And guys like Biden say, ""Oh well, we'd stop it."" Well, he was there eight years, we'd stop that. No Trump is stopping it. Trump is. So Representative Ayanna Pressley, is she related in any way to Elvis? I don't know. Who knows? You never know? She thinks that people with the same skin color, all need to think the same. She said we don't need any more brown faces that don't want to be brown voices. We don't need black faces, that don't want to be a black voice. And just as we -- can you imagine, if I said that? It would be over. Right? It would be over. It would be over, but we'd find a way to survive. Right? We always do. Here we are. Here we are. We find a way, that always find a way. Just this week, she refused to condemn the AntiFa. These are bad people. You notice -- You notice they always attack people that really have never been attacked before. They attack, and I don't want to be disrespectful to people that have taken a lot of shots to the face, but they wouldn't attack some of these people in this room. They're not attacking bikers for Trump. They're not attacking construction workers for Trump. They're not attacking law enforcement or military for Trump. They're attacking a single man standing there with a camera, who never got hit and never hit back before in his life. They don't attack the people that we wish they attack. That wouldn't be a pretty picture. That wouldn't look -- that wouldn't look too good for them. But they don't, it's very, very sad. AntiFa, these are bad people. These are sick, bad people. Remember that. These are bad people. These are bad people, AntiFa. They don't get the bad press. The press doesn't want to talk to them. They are very evil. They're hitting people over the head with sticks, and I mean sticks. I mean, bats even. They're whacking people with bats. They're very brave. They always show up with a mask and they're covered, because then they go home to mom and dad. They don't want mom and dad to know where they were. But they always attack people that really can't defend themselves very well. Right? They're not attacking this group. They're not attacking North Carolina. So these Congresswomen their comments are helping to fuel the rise of a dangerous militant hard left. But that's OK, because we're going to win this election like nobody's ever seen before. And tonight, I have a suggestion for the hate-filled extremists who are constantly trying to tear our country down. They never have anything good to say, that's why I say, ""Hey, if they don't like it, let them leave, let them leave."" Right? Let them leave. They're always telling us how to run and how to do this. How do -- you know what, if they don't love it, tell them to leave it. I don't know. And now watch, I'll go back tonight. Oh, sir, that was so controversial, sir. No, I'm just saying it's their choice. They can come back when they want. But you know they don't love our country. I think in some cases, they hate our country, and they're so angry. Even yesterday, they were on the stage. I said. Let me watch this and the anger. They were trying to be nice. But it's hard -- it's hard for them to do that. The choice for every American has never been more clear. That's true. The Democrat agenda is anti-worker, anti-jobs, anti-citizen, anti-family and anti-common sense, with the exception of all of those Democrats that voted for us today. We'll give them -- they're fine. They're fine. They are fine and they, you know, you lose to them. It's different. It's OK. It's called normal political back and forth. But I want to tell you something, the Democrats are being so vile and so vicious moving so far left, it's out of control. It's out of control. The Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American. So we're thrilled tonight to be joined by several North Carolina Republican leaders, really great people. They've been so helpful to me, and they're doing an incredible job. Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest, North Carolina treasurer Dale Folwell, Greenville Mayor P.J. Connelly. I hear he does a good job. Good job. And North Carolina GOP Chair Michael Whatley. I want to also thank and I'll tell you he's been a warrior for the last three months, really a warrior when we need him the most, Senator Thom Tillis. Thank you, Thom. He really is. He's been really good and we've got to get out and work and make sure he gets re-elected. And also Representatives Mark Walker and Richard Hudson. And two friends of mine that decided you know they had a choice. They could stay back and fight the hoax of impeachment or they could be here and bask in the glory of victory. I said, ""Do me a favor, stay back. Mark Meadows and Mrs. Meadows is here right now. Debbie's here. Thank you, Deb. These are warriors and another one who's just incredible, NCAA wrestling champion, great guy. He wanted to stay back. I said, ""Are you sure you don't want to come?"" ""I do want to come, but I really want you to win today. If you don't mind."" I said, ""OK, let's you better stay back. If I see you here, I'm going to be very angry."" And they did their job, didn't they? This man is from the great state of Ohio, Congressman Jim Jordan. And we're going to do this quickly, but it's just important that you get out and vote. They're two great people. I want to introduce the next member of Congress from North Carolina's 3rd congressional district, just won a great race, Dr. Greg Murphy. Greg is a winner. Thank you, President Trump, for coming back to eastern North Carolina. This is Trump country. And I promise, if elected your congressman, I will be a congressman that has our President's back. The 3rd district -- the 3rd district is not going to elect another Pelosi Congressman. It is not going to do that. So we thank him for coming in eastern North Carolina, and we are here to support him. Thank you, all. So you know, Greg will be great on jobs, all the things you want, tough on crimes, stronger on borders, pushing the wall. He'll be pushing it like nobody, but we're building the wall, but we're pushing it. It's like pulling teeth. We've got six lawsuits on the wall. We've won two of them. We're going to win others. But you think it's easy, don't you folks? You think this is easy, but we're building a lot of wall and we hope if we can win that final one, so important, it's going before the Supreme Court, we'll have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year. So go out, get Greg elected. Great victory, by the way. That was a great primary and a great victory. That same day, there's another crucial election in North Carolina's 9th -- You know, right? You know what we're talking about night. I know it's not here, but it's very close. Right? 9th Congressional district, the Democrat in the race is an ultra-liberal named Dan McCready, wants to take away your guns. He wants to raise your taxes. He doesn't care about borders. He likes open borders, and he really admires socialism. I don't think that works too well in North Carolina. It doesn't work too well in our country. We're joined tonight by the Republican candidate, who is really a special man, a great man. He's gonna be a great, great Congressman Dan Bishop. Dan? So, as President Trump said, there are two Dans in this race. Dan McCready said that Donald Trump is the greatest threat to democracy ever and backed crooked Hillary. Dan McCready took money from Ilhan Omar. And Mr. President, Dan McCready wants to repeal your tax cuts. Now, he would be the wrong Dan. As for me, I'm going to go to Washington and I'm going to stand with President Donald J. Trump, and that makes me the right Dan. And with the help of President Trump, we're going to win the 9th District. So go to votedanbishop.com and sign up. Thank you. Thank you, Dan. Thank you, Dan. And he will indeed defend your values, your family, and he will always defend our Second Amendment. Unlike their opponents, they're really into destroying our Second Amendment. So everyone from the 9th District, go out and vote for Dan Bishop, a very special man, two very, very special people. On the issue of everything, a lot of issues, Democrats have put the needs of foreign citizens far ahead of our own citizens. Nowhere in this world is there anything like what's happening with immigration, how bad it is. The Democrats, open border policies, deplete our public services, overcrowd our schools and hospitals, and bring crime, drugs and deadly gangs into our community. The Democrats want to spend more money on health care for an illegal immigrant than they do for a citizen of the United States. So, just two days ago, our Department of Justice charged 22 members of the savage, brutal, horrible gang MS-13 in California, who've been violently operating for more than 10 years. We got them all. We think they are no good with conducting brutal, medieval-style killings. You know what medieval style is? The little pieces, little pieces, little pieces, medieval style, including the dismemberment of their victims, and they enjoyed every minute of it. These are sick people. When I called them animals, Nancy Pelosi said, ""How dare he use that name. These are human beings."" I don't think they were humans. Most of those indicted were in our country illegally, 19 to be exact, 19 of 22, think of that. They want to protect -- These are savage beasts. These are savage killers, and they should have been brought out a long time ago by the Obama administration. We're bringing MS-13 out by the thousands, getting them the hell out of our country. And when you read about deportation and Sunday, you get a lot of people on Sunday, but we have a lot of people and we're always shooting for the bad ones first, which makes sense. Right? But when you hear about that, we always want to get -- And by the way, do you know how dangerous it is for these ICE agents, these ICE and border patrol? But ICE, they go into a nest. They call it a nest, a nest of these killers. They're tough. They're smart. And you know what? They're great patriots. They love our country. The danger that they have is incredible. And I just want to salute -- And I have to tell you, I want to salute ICE and border patrol. And I want to support -- I want to support and salute law enforcement in the United States. These are -- are great people. These are great people and they don't get the credit they deserve. But you know what? I tell them all the time, you have no idea how much the American people, the American public, you have no idea how much they love you and respect you, law enforcement. In the recent Democrat debate, every single candidate, everyone -- Biden was a little bit slower with the hand. It didn't work so well. They raised their hand in favor of giving free government health care. They raised their hand in giving a lot of other things that I don't think you're going to be happy with. Illegal aliens will be very nicely covered. How about California? They just approved $100 million. They just approved $100 million to take care of the needs of illegal immigrants. And then you look on the sidewalks of Los Angeles, the sidewalks of San Francisco, Nancy Pelosi's district, nobody's ever seen anything like it in the history of our country what's happening there. So if you don't want Democrats to raid your health care, to steal away your money, to bankrupt your country, then you have a choice. You must vote Republican. All American citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who work hard to come into our country who study, who wait in line sometimes for 10 years, and who respect our laws and follow the rules, they deserve a government that is loyal to them. They work hard. You can't say you love our country if you want to destroy it through open borders. Open borders are a disaster. Human trafficking, you know, the first time I heard as a politician human trafficking, nobody talks about it. It sounded almost like an ancient crime, many many years ago, hundreds of years, thousands of years ago. Human trafficking is the worst now throughout the world, because of the Internet. It's the worst that's ever been. And the worst treated of all, children, but it's women, women. The Democrats want to do nothing about it. Human trafficking is worse than it ever has been in the history of the world, not just -- This is not a United States problem. This is all over the world, human trafficking. It's a terrible, terrible thing and we're going to solve it. You know most of it comes through in this country, our southern border, where we don't have the wall. They're not going through our points, they're not going through areas where we have security, where we have guards where we have gates where we have all sorts of equipment. No, they ride through the desert and they make a left, where you don't have the wall. It's so simple. Everybody knows it. You know, the Democrats all know it because five years ago, before I was here, they all wanted it. Now they don't want it. You know why they don't want it? For political reasons. And you know what? It's going to cost them a lot of points in the election, I think probably cost them the election. And just lastly, Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities, which release violent criminal aliens onto our streets. You know, where we just picked up these 22 thugs, these 22 monsters, we just picked them up in, where, Los Angeles, sanctuary, city, wonderful sanctuary city. Thom Tillis, senator, recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities and hold them accountable for the thousands of lives they have shattered. They've shattered these lives. Thank you very much, Thom. Every nation has the right to establish and enforce immigration rules in its national interest. It's very simple, isn't it. It's common sense. It's so simple, and the voters understand it. We expect that those who seek to join our society will obey our laws, revere our Constitution, cherish our history, support themselves financially, and embrace our American values and love our American flag. We believe in an immigration system based on merit, merit where they come in. We have so many companies coming in, automobile companies, companies of all types, and we need workers. We actually need workers. We have the lowest unemployment rate that we've had in 51 years. Soon, it'll be the lowest ever. We need workers, but they have to come in where they can help our country. They have to come in based on merit. And we're putting in bills, and let's see what happens. Otherwise, we'll just wait 'til we win back the House, win the Senate, win the presidency, and we'll vote. Democrats have never been further outside of the mainstream. They're going crazy, folks. They're going crazy. More than 130 Democrats in Congress have signed up for Bernie Sanders, total government takeover "
"Oh, we had such luck in Orlando, we love being in Orlando. Thank you. Thank you, Orlando. What a turnout! What a turnout! You know this is a very big arena for a Tuesday night. I said, you know, if we have about three or four empty seats, the fake news will say, Headlines: ""He didn't fill up the arena"", so I said, maybe we shouldn't take a chance. Maybe we shouldn't go to Orlando as you go someplace else, then I said, ""No, I think, we'll go to Orlando."" And -- and not only did we fill it up, but we had 120,000 requests. That means you folks have come out very, very good. Congratulations. I want to thank our great Vice President Mike Pence and his wonderful wife, Karen Pence, and our magnificent First Lady Melania, thank you. I am thrilled to be back in my second home. That's what it is. It's my second home. In many cases, I think I could say it's my first home, if you want to know the truth. It's the great state of Florida, very historic, because exactly four years ago this week, I announced my campaign for president of the United States and it turned out to be more than just a political campaign. It turned out to be a great political movement because of you. A great movement. A movement made up of hard working patriots who love their country, love their flag, love their children, and who believe that a nation must care for its own citizens first. Together, we stared down a corrupt and broken political establishment and we restored government of, by, and for the people. Our country is now thriving, prospering and booming. And frankly, it's soaring to incredible new heights. Our economy is the envy of the world, perhaps the greatest economy we've had in the history of our country. And as long as you keep this team in place, we have a tremendous way to go. Our future has never ever looked brighter or sharper. The fact is, the American Dream is back, it's bigger and better, and stronger than ever, before. 2016 was not merely another four-year election. This was a defining moment in American history. Ask them right there. By the way, that is a lot of fake news back there, that's a lot. You know what I say, the amount of press we have tonight reminds me of the Academy Awards before it went political and their ratings went down the tubes. This was our chance to reclaim our government from a permanent political class that enriched itself at your expense. As I said, what a wonderful beautiful day at my inauguration, we did not merely transfer power from one party to another, but we transferred power back to you, the proud citizens of the United States of America. We stared down the unholy alliance of lobbyists and donors and special interests, who made a living, bleeding our country dry. That's what we've done. We broke down the doors of Washington backrooms, where deals were cut to close our companies, give away your jobs, shut down our factories, and surrender your sovereignty and your very way of life, and we've ended it. We took on a political machine that tried to take away your voice and your vote. They tried to take away your dignity and your destiny, but we will never let them do that, will we? Many times I said, ""We would drain the swamp."", and that's exactly what we're doing right now, we're draining the swamp. And that's why the swamp is fighting back so viciously and violently. For the last two and a half years, we have been under siege, and with the Mueller report we won, and now they want a do over, they want a do over. Let's do it again, didn't work out too well, let's do it again. They want a do over. No president should ever have to go through this again. It is so bad for our great country. Our hopes, the great hopes. Our patriotic movement has been under assault from the very first day. We accomplish more than any other president has in the first two and a half years of a presidency and under circumstances that no president has had to deal with before, because we did in the middle of the great and illegal witch hunt, things that nobody have been able to accomplish, not even close. Nobody's done what we have done in two and a half years. We went through the greatest witch hunt in political history. The only collusion was committed by the Democrats, the fake news media and their operatives and the people who funded the phony dossier, crooked Hillary Clinton and the DNC. It was all an illegal attempt to overturn the results of the election spy on our campaign, which is what they did and subvert our democracy. Remember, the insurance policy, just in case Hillary Clinton lost. Remember the insurance policy? They appointed 18 very angry Democrats to try to take down our incredible movement. After two years, 1.4 million pages of documents, 500 search warrants, 500 witnesses, 2,800 subpoenas, and 40 FBI agents working round the clock. What did they come up with? No collusion. And the facts that led our great attorney general to determine no obstruction. No collusion, no obstruction. And they spent $40 million on this witch hunt, $40 million. That's right, they spent $40 million, probably a hell of a lot more than that. And think about it, nobody's been tougher on Russia than Donald Trump. Nobody. We call it The Russian hoax. Remember, President Obama's famous line caught on the open mic, secretly telling the Russian president to quote, ""Inform Vladimir that after my election I'll have more flexibility."" Okay. Remember that? Remember that? Lot of people remember that, I remembered it. I saw it happen, I didn't like it. They don't bring it up. The fake news will never bring it up. And in September, just before the election, the FBI told President Obama about possible Russian interference and he did nothing because he thought that Hillary Clinton, Crooked Hillary was going to win, that's why he did nothing. He did nothing. I built up the military, imposed sanctions on Russia, and provided alternative energy sources for all over Europe that competed very, very strongly with Russia. We are, by the way, the No.1 producer of energy in the world because of what we've done right now, The Democrats don't care about Russia, they only care about their own political power. They went after my family, my business, my finances, my employees, almost everyone that I've ever known or worked with, but they are really going after you. That's what it's all about, not about us, it's about you. They tried to erase your vote, erase your legacy of the greatest campaign and the greatest election, probably in the history of our country, and they wanted to deny you the future that you demanded and the future that America deserves, and that now America is getting. Our Radical Democrat opponents are driven by hatred, prejudice, and rage. They want to destroy you and they want to destroy our country, as we know it. Not acceptable, it's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. To understand Democrats ruthless tactics, look no further than the United States Supreme Court and our court system nationwide. I will soon have appointed my 145th judge. President Obama was very nice to us. He didn't fill the positions. I get there the first day. ""How many judges do I have to appoint?"", they said, ""Sir, 139."", now it's 145 and we've just finished number 107, already approved sitting on the bench, how about that? And by the time we're finished with the rest, we will have a record percentages. Our percentage will be a record except for one person. One person has a higher percentage than your favorite President Donald Trump. You know who that president is? He's got a higher percentage than me and it's devastating. His name is George Washington. George is at 100% and there's no way I'm going to get there no matter what I tell you. Got 100%. Well, he was first, so he just appointed them all and that was it. That's going to be a hard record to beat. They want to take away your judges. They want to pack the court with far left ideologues and they want to radicalise our judiciary. You know that, we already have a lot of that. Look at what they did to a great gentleman, Justice Kavanagh, highly respected. They didn't just try to win. They tried to destroy him with false and malicious accusations. And thank you, Marco, and thank you Lindsey wherever you may be. Thank you, great job, thank you. Stand up. Yeah, Lindsey Graham was doing okay in South Carolina, aint that great? Now he's through the roof great. Thank you. Great job, thank you. Great people, great people, all of them. They tried to ruin the family of now, Justice Kavanagh. They tried to ruin his career, they tried to ruin his life. They even wanted to impeach him on fraudulent charges. Those charges were a fraud. He did nothing wrong. All in pursuit of political domination and control. Just imagine what this angry left-wing mob would do if they were in charge of this country. Imagine if we had a Democrat president and a Democrat congress in 2020. They would shut down your free speech, use the power of the law to punish their opponents, which they're trying to do now anyway, they'll always be trying to shield themselves. They would strip Americans of their constitutional rights while flooding the country with illegal immigrants in the hopes it will expand their political base, and they'll get votes someplace down the future. That's what it's about. And we are building the wall. We're going to have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year. It's moving rapidly, moving very rapidly. And you know we couldn't get the wall approved by the Democrats, even though they voted for it four years ago and six years ago and didn't get built, but they voted for it, all of a sudden, Trump is president, we don't want a wall. Can you imagine, can you imagine those caravans without having the barriers and walls that we've already put up and that are up. This country would be a mess like you wouldn't believe. So the wall is moving along, it's moving along rapidly. It's beautiful, I changed the design, it's stronger, bigger, better, and cheaper. Cheaper, a lot cheaper. You know sometimes when they don't give you the money, you have to make it cheaper, not going to happen, but it's going well. Instead of bringing us together as one America, Democrats want to splinter us into factions and tribes, they want us divided, not going to happen to the Republicans anymore, it's not going to happen. This election is not merely a verdict on the amazing progress we've made. It's a verdict on the un-American conduct of those who tried to undermine our great democracy, and undermine you. And by the way, on July 4th, in Washington, D.C., come on down, we're going have a big day. Bring your flags, bring those flags. Bring those American flags, July 4th, we're going to have hundreds of thousands of people, we're going to celebrate America. Sounds good, right? July 4th, celebrate America. This election is a verdict on whether we want to live in a country where the people who lose an election refuse to concede and spend the next two years trying to shred our Constitution and rip your country apart. You remember during one of the debates, when Crooked Hillary said, ""If I win, are you going to support me?"", but I must be honest, I didn't give her a great answer. That was a very -- I might have been my hardest question during the debates. Isn't it amazing that it worked the other way around, right? Is isn't it amazing? If you want to know how the system is rigged, just compare how they came after us for three years with everything they had, versus the free pass they gave to Hillary and her aides after they set up an illegal server, destroyed evidence deleted and acid washed 33,000 e-mails, exposed classified information, and turned the State Department into a pay-for-play cash machine. 33,000 emails deleted, think of it. I keep mentioning, you know, there was a lot of corruption on the other side, but you know the simplest thing, they get a subpoena from the United States Congress and they decide that they're not going to give it so Lindsey Graham, they did delete and they acid wash, which is very expensive. Nobody does it, they acid wash those emails, never to be seen again, but we may find them somewhere deep in the State Department. But can you imagine, if I got a subpoena, think of this, If I got a subpoena for e-mails, if I deleted one e-mail, like a love note to Melania, it's the electric chair for Trump, 33,000 e-mails. But let's see what happens, we now have a great attorney general, let's see what happens. So if you either shut down this rigged system once and for all, then show up November 3rd, that's your day, big day, and vote, vote, vote, we're going to have a big, big day. Thank you. And remember the only thing these corrupt politicians will understand is an earthquake at the ballot box, that's what they will understand, and they're going to see it. We did it once and now we will do it again, and this time we're going to finish the job, and this time should be a lot easier because we have done so much with our military, with our vets, with the Second Amendment, with our regulations, with the biggest tax cut in history, with getting rid of so many different problems, so many different things, including, by the way, the individual mandate in Obamacare, one of the worst things anybody's ever had to live through. We got rid of the individual mandate. Right? How many people are happy? They no longer have to pay for the privilege of not paying for bad health insurance. How many people are happy? Bad health care. So every time you don't have to make out a check in order not to have health care. Think of that, think of that. This is the only country you pay for the very distinct privilege of not having to pay but you have to pay a lot. Now you don't have to pay anymore. You don't want it, you don't have to pay. The individual mandate, Mike. We got rid of it. That was a big deal. The people tried to stop our movement are the same Washington insiders, who spent their careers rigging the system, so your losses will be their gains, you know that. These are the same career politicians who presided over decades of flat wages, the loss of our manufacturing jobs. Sixty thousand, could you believe that? Sixty thousand, who would believe that number? And you know how I know it's true, because if it wasn't I've been using it a lot. The fake news would have headlines: Trump used a phony number., they'll have headline. It would be the biggest story: Trump used -- well, they never corrected it, so I assumed, fellas, 60,000 shuttered factories. We closed up 60,000 factories, it didn't seem right. It didn't seem like it would be possible. And avalanche of job killing regulations, a growing wealth gap and one ruinous trade deal after another. By the way, those trade deals are getting very good folks, you will see. We just completed the deal with South Korea. Great deal. We're working with Mexico and Canada. We have to get the Democrats to approve it. We wanted to be bipartisan. As you know, you may have read a couple of things about China. I spoke to President Xi. Terrific president, a great leader of China, spoke to him this morning at length and we'll see what happens, but we are going to have a good deal and a fair deal or we're not going to have a deal at all and that's okay too. Because we are taking in billions and billions of dollars into our treasury and companies are leaving China because they want to avoid paying these large tariffs. And by the way, when the fake news tells you that you are paying, in the case of China, they devalue their currency, that helps them. And you know what else they're doing? They're subsidizing those companies and you're not paying very much if you're paying anything at all, the case of China, and we are taking billions and billions of dollars in. And remember this, and you know it as well as I do, we have never taken in 10 cents from China, we would lose $500 billion a year with China. We rebuilt China. They've done a great job, but they took us for suckers, and that includes Obama and Biden. We took -- they took us for suckers. Five hundred billion, five hundred billion. Somebody said, ""You mean five hundred million."" That's a lot too, right? No, $500 billion, actually more than that, I don't want to be too specific 507. We're fighting against the same far left politicians that ravage our great cities and crush the dreams of African-American middle class, the same people who threw open our borders and allowed drugs, gangs, and illegal labor to devastate our poorest American communities, you know that. Our political opponents looked down with hatred on our values and with utter disdain for the people whose lives they want to run. That's the way they've been doing it and if you take a look at the African American community, how's -- how much progress has been made, the lowest unemployment numbers in the history of our country. They called you and us, do you remember this? They called us deplorables, that was a mistake. That was a big mistake. I'll never forget. I was making a speech after Hillary used the word deplorables, and I didn't think it was that bad, you know why? She used another word. You know what the other word was? She said, deplorables and irredeemables. I think that was worse, but it didn't get picked up. You never know what's going to get picked up. It didn't. I think irredeemables is worst than deplorables, but I'll never forget. I was making a speech the next day. We had a big crowd in a great, great state, and women, in particular, were wearing: We are deplorables, The deplorables love you. And there were hundreds and hundreds of people wearing: We are deplorables, and I said, ""I think Hillary Clinton made a big mistake with that speech, and that is the problem with politics, one word and your career is ruined. You never know, you have to be very careful with the fakers back there. I have news for democrats who want to return us to the bitter failures and betrayals of the past. We are not going back we're going on to victory, going on to victory.  take it away as fast as it came, and as Mike Pence said a little while ago, ""That's why we want a little more time. It's going to be cemented, it's going to be cemented."" You know we have a big decision to make. You know what I'm going to say, ""We have to come up with a theme for the new campaign, right? Is it going to be Make America Great Again, which is probably and possibly the greatest theme in the history of politics, I think. Make America Great Again, MAGA country, right? MAGA, MAGA, MAGA, we're in MAGA country, that I can tell you. But you know today we had a massive day on the stock market. A lot of good things are happening, but we had a very big day and we're very close to, I think, are 68 record. You know we've hit all time records. This tremendous, I think it's actually more than that, but it's a lot. So now I say, we've made America great again, but how do you give up the No. 1 call a theme, logo, statement in the history of politics for a new one, but you know there's a new one that really works and that's called Keep America Great, right? Keep America Great, right? Keep America Great. In other words make America Great Again, well, we've really done it. We've rebuilt our military, it's still in the process. We've taken care of our vets. We've cut the hell out of regulations. You know, have cut more regulations than any president in the history of our country, regardless of the length of their term. So now I say, we need-- we have a lot of brilliant talent campaign people, they cost a fortune and they never give me any ideas. I'm only kidding. So now, I'm saying, what do we use as our theme as our statement, so I'm going to ask you to vote on it. I'm going to go, Make America Great Again and Keep America Great. Let me just here by your cheers, what you like. So, in all fairness, Make America Great, the greatest of all time. I really believe that. The greatest of all time, how do you give up the greatest of all time with a new theme, because you know what's gonna happen? If I do it with a new theme, I give up the greatest of all time and if I lose, people are going to say what a mistake that was, but we're not going to lose so it's not going to matter. We're not going to lose, right? We're not going to lose. Are you ready? First, we do make America Great Again, then we do Keep America Great. Let me hear it. Ready? Make America Great Again. Not bad. I would have said that three years ago, wouldn't be a contest, right? You're ready? Keep America Great. Wow, I'm sorry MAGA country, but that wasn't too close. I thought you had it won, and then I heard this cheer. My eardrums will never be the same. Keep America Great. We're going to keep on fighting for every man and woman and child all across this land. With every ounce of heart and mind, and sweat and soul, we're going to keep making America great again, and then we will indeed Keep America Great. I will keep it so great. Better than ever before. We're going to keep it better than ever before. And that is why tonight, I stand before you to officially launch my campaign for a second term as president of the United States. Thank you. I can promise you that I will never ever let you down. I won't. And I am profoundly thankful to my family. I have a great family Melania, Don, Ivanka, Eric, Tiffany, Barron, Lara, Jared, Robert, Maryanne, Elizabeth, and my late brother, Fred Jr., we're joined tonight by many great patriots who fight right by our side. Florida's terrific governor. Thank you, Ron. Our first lady, Casey DeSantis. What a job you are doing. Thank you. Thank you, Ron, Casey. Thank you. What a job. And again, your great lieutenant governor, who I hear is fantastic, right? Jeanette Nez. Jeannette. Thank you, Jeanette. Beautiful job. Your Florida CFO, Jimmy Patronis. Some really brilliant, tough, wonderful friends who have helped me so much, Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Marco Rubio of Florida, and Rick Scott of Florida. These are great people, they're tough, they're smart, and they love our country. Thank you very much. Rick, Marco, Lindsey, thank you. Members of Congress, warriors also. Boy, they're up there, you want them protecting you, I'll tell you. They don't stop. Matt Gaetz, Ted Yoho, and Michael Waltz. And also, all of our friends and our supporters, you've been incredible. This has been a tremendous night. You've really been incredible. Since the very first day I walked through the doors of the White House. I have never forgotten who sent me there, You did, you did, you did, you did, you did, you did, you all did. When I get behind my desk in the beautiful oval office, I think about only one thing: how the American people are going to win, win, win today. And I'm fighting for you, and I think you see that, not easy, but I love it and the reason I love it because there have been few presidents that have been able to do what we've been able to do for you, and it is a great great feeling, thank you. Thank you. I love it. Together, we're breaking the most sacred rule in Washington politics. We are keeping our promises to the American people, because my only special interest is you. I don't have a special interest, I don't care, I don't care. And by the way, by the way, a woman who has been so good, so talented, so wonderful and we're sort of going to be losing. I have a feeling she's going to be running for a certain gubernatorial position. Don't worry about it, Ron, it's not going to be his last. It won't be in Florida. I promise you, Casey. She'll be tough, right? But a woman who's, a special woman and right -- and her father, by the way, he's out there fighting for us all the time, Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Thank you, Mr. President. This has been truly the honor of a lifetime. One of the most incredible experiences anybody could ever imagine and that's because I've had the chance to be on the front row of history and watch you drastically change our country for the better. You've made America great, you're gonna continue to make America great. I couldn't be prouder to be part of your team. I'm gonna go spend a lot of time with my kids, but no one will be a stronger voice and a more fierce advocate for this president, because he's fighting for all of the people in this room and for all of the people that you represent all over the country and he's gonna have an incredible six more years to make our country as strong as it's ever been. Thank you so much, Mr. President. We're going to miss her. We're going to miss her. Thank you, Sarah. Incredible, a warrior. Since the election, we have created six million new jobs. Nobody thought that would be possible. They said it wouldn't be possible. We have lifted more than six million Americans off of food stamps and we're getting off of welfare and back into the workforce and they're so happy. They are so happy. The unemployment rate is the lowest rate it's been in over 51 years, think of that. And as I said before about African-American, I now say also about Hispanic.-American and Asian-American unemployment have reached the lowest rates in the history of our country. Unemployment. And African-American poverty has also reached, by far, the lowest rate in history. These are incredible numbers. And today, right now, as we speak, almost 160 million people are working, that's more than ever before, it's the first time ever, the number of people is almost 160 million and we're going to be breaking that number soon. Women filled 60% of the new jobs created last year and women's unemployment is now the lowest it's been in 74 years. Wages are rising at the fastest rate in many decades, and really what's nice is they're rising the fastest for the lowest income Americans. Isn't that nice? Percentage wise, the Fed and our pledge to the American worker through Ivanka Trump, she has worked so hard, she's worked hard, has secured commitments to provide private-sector training opportunities to nearly 10 million Americans. It's been an incredible story. It's been an incredible story. Great job. To get relief to working families, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history, the largest. We doubled, the child-tax credit, and the typical family of four earning $75,000 has seen a tax cut of over $2,000 a year, and that money goes right back into our economy. Our record-breaking regulatory reduction campaign has saved every American household an average of $3,000 per year, and we've ended the last administration's cruel and heartless law on American energy. What they were doing to our energy should never be forgotten. The United States is now the No.1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. And something I want to make clear to the media, we have among the cleanest and sharpest, crystal-clean, you've heard me say it, I went crystal-clean air and water anywhere on Earth. We are creating a future of American energy independence and yet our air and water are the cleanest they've ever been by far, and importantly, we are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. When I came into office, we inherited one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Would it put you all out of work? TPP would have dealt the death blow to the US auto industry, which, by the way is doing great. Many, many plants are now under construction in Michigan and Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, they hadn't built one in decades and now they're all over the place. In my first week, I withdrew the United States from the job-killing catastrophe that we know what that is: TPP and the Paris environmental accord, not too good, not too good. I thought I was going to take a lot of heat on that, I took none. Would have cost us trillions and trillions of dollars. And we're replacing the NAFTA disaster with the brand new USMCA. And USMCA, that's Mexico and Canada, will create at least 75,000 new jobs for American auto workers and give a massive boost to our farmers and ranchers, and growers all across the Sunshine State and will hopefully soon have bipartisan support. Because everybody wants it to happen. It replaces one of the worst trade deals ever made, NAFTA. NAFTA was a beauty. It was really good if you want to see everybody leave our country. Thanks to our tariffs, american steel mills are roaring back to life, you know that. And we've taken historic action to confront china's chronic trading abuses. It should have been done a long time ago, but the days of stealing American jobs and American companies, American ideas and wealth, those days are over. In the eight years before I took office, on average, we lost two thousand manufacturing jobs a month. Since my inauguration, we've added 16,000 manufacturing jobs a month. That didn't happen by accident. Remember the statement from the previous administration you'd need a magic wand to bring back manufacturing. Well, we'll tell sleepy Joe that we found the magic wand. The sleepy guy. And to remedy past injustices, we passed groundbreaking criminal justice reform. We ended the Clinton era crime policies that unfairly affected the African-American community, so unfair. We are boldly confronting the opioid and drug addiction, and you know what's happening, drug addiction is the scorch of our country and many other countries, and we have made so much progress, so much progress. Opioid down 17, 18, 19, and 21% in some places. And I want to thank our first lady for having worked so hard on that, thank you, thank you. And we're expanding, affordable health care, creating plans 60% cheaper than Obamacare, and we passed, something I'm very proud of, they've wanted to pass it for 45 years. All of the gentlemen that are sitting here from Congress, your congressmen, your senators, they helped us. It's called Right To Try. We have the greatest medical labs in the world. We have incredible things under advisement, and our people, if they were very sick, they were terminally ill. They couldn't get anything because people said no, it might hurt them, they're terminally ill. So I said that doesn't make sense, and these people, if they were rich or had money they'd go to Asia, they'd go to Europe, they'd go all over the world looking for a cure, because the FDA would not approve what we call Right To Try, what a beautiful name, Right To Try, and I got it approved after 44 years, I got it approved. And I saw a beautiful young woman the other day on television, Miss Harp, incredible woman. Did anyone see her? She was incredible, and she was so thankful that she's doing so well and they were giving her instructions on what you do when you're dying, and then all of a sudden this happened, and now it looks like she's going to be around for a long time, and there are many, many cases right there. Right To Try. And I hope nobody in this room ever needs it, but we now have it. For the first time in half a century, we've reduced the price of prescription drugs and our amazing veterans are no longer left to languish and die on endless waiting lists, standing on line waiting for a doctor. We pass V.A. Choice, so they can see their doctor. Our veterans were waiting on line for two days, seven days, three weeks, five weeks, you had veterans waiting on line that could have easily been taken care of. They waited so long. they became terminally ill in many cases, the stories are horrible. We passed V.A. choice. You go out now, you get a doctor, you fix yourself up, the doctor sends us the bill, we pay for it, and you know what it doesn't matter, because the life and the veteran is more important, but we also happen to save a lot of money doing that, can you believe it? V.A. Choice for the veteran. They've been trying to get that passed also for about 44 years. Now we also passed V.A. accountability so that when somebody does bad things or mistreats, our wonderful veterans, we couldn't do anything with them. They were protected between civil service unions and all of the problems, it didn't matter, you couldn't do anything. Now, you can just say, ""You're fired, get out, get out, get out."" And as we fight to make life better for all Americans, the Democrat Party has become more radical, more dangerous and more unhinged than at any point in the modern history of our country or no issue are Democrats more extreme and more depraved than when it comes to border security. The Democrat agenda of open borders is morally reprehensible. It's the greatest betrayal of the American middle class and, frankly, American life. Our country, has a hole, nobody sees anything like it, "
"Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Wow, what a crowd. Look at that! Thank you. Thank you. Well before we begin, I have to tell you that runway is like an ice skating rink and the first step, I said, ""You know this sucker is slippery."" I think it was put in by the Democrats or will they let us slide. I don't know whoever the hell got that thing that's not -- that's a trap, I'm telling you it's like -- it's like ridiculous. You know what I'm saying, ""Therefore, don't pay the bill."" OK. Because that is crazy, fellas. So next time, you know, we don't want to have that. Can you imagine if I went down, the press would have a field day for weeks and weeks. They'd say, ""He went down. He finally -- He made a mistake."" Look at that. Isn't that terrible? Isn't that terrible? Well, I just want to say, hello, Panama City Beach. It's a nice place. We had some -- We had some great times here. You remember before that -- that great election, great, great election. Sixteen, right? Sixteen. And now we have 20 coming up, who would believe November 3rd, not November 8th, it's November 3rd, and it's going to be just as special as November 8th. Going to be just as special. And in certain ways I can't say it's more important, but it's equally as important, because we've made strides like no country has made strides, what's happened to our country. But we had a great time and we had some incredible rallies right here and we're working really hard for you and we're going to talk about that in a little while, things are going well, OK, well. You got hit with a little hurricane called Michael. That was not a nice hurricane, I can tell you that, but it's going well and I'm thrilled to be here with really truly incredible men and women of the Florida Panhandle. My friends, your strength and devotion and values are what truly make America great and what make America run. You know that. You love our country, you're proud of our history and you always respect our great American flag, right. So I was last here in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Michael, you remember? We came, it was pretty bad stuff and I pledge to you unwavering support and the support of our nation until you have fully recovered and rebuilt and we will never ever leave your side. We've already given you billions of dollars and there's a lot more coming as you do it, and to support your recovery from Hurricanes Michael and Irma. The federal government has committed more than $10 billion to the state of Florida. That's committed, it's all committed. And Rick Scott and your new Governor is a great Governor. Rick was great. Ron DeSantis is great. So now, Rick has gone on to the Senate, along with Marco Rubio and they're all working we're all working together and things are going good for you and for our country. Thank you. I love you too. Thank you. That's the guy, but I love him, all right. Wherever the hell you are, I love you. And tonight I'm pleased to announce that my administration will be allocating $448 million in HUD disaster recovery funds for the great people of Florida. These dollars will help communities get back on their feet. We've already given you many, many millions of dollars, but these are additional monies that are coming in to help the families put their lives together. Some families are still working very hard. It's been a tough one. More money is needed. I've just come from a stop at Tyndall Air Force Base, where I saw the devastating effects of that Category 5 hurricane, Category 5. Never heard about Category 5s before, a Category 5 is big stuff. Tyndall was scheduled, as you know, by the military to close, you know that, right? You know that? And I got a call from your great representatives and they said, ""President, they want to close Tyndall because it got beat up badly."" It got beat. In fact we have our best planes there, the F-22 is incredible, incredible fighter jet, the most beautiful plane, I think, I've ever seen and some of them were damaged, but we lost none, we lost none, seven were very badly damaged, they lost none. And the military had it scheduled to be closed and I heard about it and I made a couple of calls and I said, ""General, why are we doing that?"" Those people are incredible. Those people they work, they're just outstanding. I said ""General, why we're doing it?"" And they said, ""You know, it was damaged."" I said, ""So what do we gonna do? Build a new -- a new one someplace else at a bad location?"" I said, ""We have thousands of people we're going to end up having 8,000 people back there working so we're rebuilding the whole place, and we're doing a job, and we're actually moving in the F-35 fighter jet, which is the newest and the best in the world, and we get a lot of them, we've got a lot of them, and they're going to be moving in, so we're going to have actually many more people working at Tyndall than you had the day before the hurricane. OK? So be prepared. And they're doing drawings and they're doing architecture of different areas, we're building some new buildings, we're fixing some old good ones that got very badly hurt, but structurally this out and when we're finished, it's going to be something that's really special, one of the best anywhere in the country, OK? And you have something very special, I was with Colonel Laidlaw, who runs it. You know him? Oh, good, he's a good man. And he was telling me the reasons, and he said we fly right over the ocean. We get up, we fly right out over the ocean. ""When you do that, sir, you can do a lot more than when you're flying over people's houses. We know that feeling too."" So it's great and it's going to be fantastic in the wake of the terrible storm. This extraordinary community pulled together and showed the world your unbreakable spirit down here a lot. I knew that long before the storms, by the way, and you've also seen countless volunteers and visitors, students, and faith groups coming here to lend a hand to help like almost no place else you can imagine. And of course people are still traveling from around the world to enjoy your sun, I happen to be one of them, by the way, and your sand and your pristine waters, which is exactly what you have because Panama City Beach, is open for business, as beautiful as ever. And today, I'm doing the most allowed by law to support the people of Florida because of the severity of this storm, Category 5, we will have the federal government pay for 90% of the cost in many circumstances, 90%. And we can do that because of the incredible devastation and the size of that storm. So now we need Democrats in Congress to work with us to pass an acceptable bill. We're getting close, it's pretty tough dealing with it. They don't want to build a wall, but we're building the wall. They don't want to do a lot of other things. They don't want to do a lot of things so we're building a lot of things. We're doing a lot of things that includes additional Hurricane Michael relief funding immediately. The money is coming immediately. No games, no gimmicks, no delays, we're just doing it, we're just doing it. And by the way FEMA. My people at FEMA. FEMA did a tremendous job here and elsewhere, by the way. They had this, they had Texas. They had Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico got $91 billion, and I understand they don't like me. It's the most money we've ever given to any -- anybody. We've never given 91 billion to a state, we've never given -- we gave to Puerto Rico 91 billion and I'll tell you, the services, you look at the Marines, you look at the Navy, the job they did there was really incredible, incredible, incredible. In fact, I brought a chart. Would you like to see a chart? Very haphazardly I just happened to have it with me, so there's your chart, has everyone seen that? So now -- I don't want to spend it a big board because that costs the government too much money, I want to say, but you can all see that. That's Puerto Rico, they don't like me. Texas, Florida, the biggest hurricanes we've ever seen, Texas, Florida, but this -- and what the Democrats want to do, they want to give more and more, and I say, ""You know what, I have a great relationship with the people of Puerto Rico, but it hasn't been fair the way they've treated all of us from the standpoint of their leaders because they complain they want more money. You got 91 billion, it's the largest amount of money ever given for a hurricane to a state, to any element, and that's the way it is, but you're getting your money one way or the other and we're not going to let anybody hold it up. And I think that the people of Puerto Rico are very grateful to Donald Trump for what we've done for them. That was a bad -- that was a bad storm. And you know with with Florida -- Thank you. With Florida, you drive on. Have you -- you drive on. With Puerto Rico it's a little tougher. It's called -- it's called -- yeah, it's called you get into a boat or you get into something, but they did a hell of a job, including bringing the biggest hospital ship in the world right off the island. So I want to thank the military. I want to thank FEMA for what they did there, for what they did in Florida, Texas. You look at Louisiana, look at South Carolina, they got hit hard. North Carolina got a piece of it. Georgia, Alabama, these are great places and they're all getting aid, but the Democrats are trying to stop it but you're getting it. Don't worry, you're getting get it. You're getting it. And you've already gotten a lot of it, so that's... Instead of wasting time, energy, taxpayer dollars on partisan stunts and hoaxes and witch hunts, Democrats should be focused on building up our country. Did you see what just happened, by the way? No collusion, no obstruction, no anything. Two years on a witch hunt. I got a gotten anybody in this audience I could have found something on you. Two years, almost $40 million, 20 Trump haters, Democrats, I call them ""Angry Democrats"". After two years, nothing, no collusion, and now the Democrats, we have a great attorney general. Now the Democrats are saying, ""We want more."" You know it was gonna be like, ""We want the Mueller report."" Now they say, ""Mueller report? No. We want to do start all over again."" It is a disgrace. We got to focus on infrastructure. We have to focus on lowering medical prices and medicine. Always focused on our military and our vets, which we've done, and the Democrats really should be focused now on restoring and helping the Emerald Coast to Florida, because that's what it is. It's time to come together for the people of Panama City, for the people of Florida, for the people of our country. It's time to stop this nonsense. They think they're going to win and if you see the one man he said, ""It's the only way we're going to beat him in 2020. We have to do this."" The only way they -- Well, that's a compliment, I guess, but think of what he said, it's the only way they're going to beat me, and actually it's working the other way because now we have our best poll numbers that we've ever had, it's crazy, it's crazy. So we want to work with them and we want to do infrastructure. We want to do all of the things that you know about and we're going to get it done. Nobody's done so much as all of us, because it's not just me, I'm a messenger. I've done a good job as a messenger. I've done a good job, but you've done a great job because you came from all over. You came from all over, you voted, they didn't know you, they didn't know you folks existed in many cases, the invisible people. And you know what you are? You're the smartest, you're the hardest working, you're paying your taxes. You do all of this stuff, great jobs, great talents, you're the best looking people, that's for sure. You ever see I joke about this, but it's really not joking. They call themselves the elite. You ever see the elite? This is the elite. They're not elite, you're elite. I always take heat. I say you have better houses, so do I. You have better boats. You have better everything. You have better everything, you're smarter, you know, I say, ""No ,we're the elite."" So let's let them be the elite, but with the super elite, there's not even a contest. There's not even a contest. I always laugh when I hear ""The Elite"" and then you see this guy and you say, ""He's not elite."" Not in my book, he's not. But we're delighted to be joined tonight by many terrific Florida Republican leaders. They really have been fantastic and I you just got a little sample of it and you're getting a great sample of it, because as your Governor, Ron DeSantis, has been doing a fantastic job. Where is Ron? Where is he? Thank you, Ron, great job, great Governor. And along with Ron, you know, his first lady Casey DeSantis. And your first lady, Melania, is a big fan of Casey, big fan. And a man and a Senator who is working with me very hard on Venezuela and Cuba and lots of other things and he's become really a good friend. We had our little squabbles, minor squabbles, but we've come together, he's a terrific person actually, Senator Marco Rubio. Where is he? Thank you, Marco. Great job. Good man. How are we doing in Cuba, Marco? How are we doing in Venezuela, step by step? Step by step. What's happening in Venezuela is disgraceful. People are dying, they have no food, they have no water. This was one of the wealthiest countries, really, in the world and now they're living so badly, so dangerously. So many people are dying and we're working hard on that problem and we're being tough. We're being -- we're being tough, but we have no choice. It's not fair what's happening to those people, great people The Venezuelan people, I know them very well. Those people around Doral, they're all -- Venezuela's got little Venezuela. I got to know them very well. They're great people, they're great people. Another friend of mine, he was just up and he was a solid, solid person for the people of Florida when he was Governor, he loves the people of Florida. Now he's in Washington. Senator Rick Scott doing a fantastic -- doing a fantastic job. We have a lot of members of Congress, Matt Gaetz, Neal Dunn. Thank you. Thank you, fellas. You have your Florida Lieutenant Governor Jeanette Nez. Jeanette. Thank you, Jeanette, great job. Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody. Thanks, Ash. And by the way, I just met your great U.S attorney. Where is he? Where is he? Thank you very much. You are doing a fantastic job. You are doing a fantastic job. Florida CFO Jimmy Patronis. Jimmy, thank you. Thank you, Jimmy. Florida GOP chair and State senator, Joe Gruber's. Joe. Thanks, Joe. RNC chairwoman, you know who is she. Won the state, the great state Michigan. I said, ""Who was that?"" Now nobody's won Michigan for decades as a Republican and we won so when it came to choosing who the head of the RNC would be. I said, ""Who is that woman that was so great up in the state of Michigan? Because we won that state we weren't expected to, but you know we left. That was the last speech I made and we have 32,000 people show up at 1 o'clock in the morning, which is now Election Day. Think of that. And I left -- think of it, Election Day, and I left, and I said, ""You know, I don't know why we're going to lose."" We had 32,000, our opponent -- we want to be nice, our opponent was there at primetime, like 6 o'clock, and she had 500 people. I said, ""Why are we going to lose Michigan? And you know, what we didn't, because Ronna McDaniel was fantastic. And another one who's fantastic, RNC Co-Chairman Tommy Hicks. Thank you, Tommy. Thank you. Thank you, Tommy. Great job. And we have so many people, like we have so many. We could go on on that, but let's get back to business, right? So this is an incredible time for our country. America is thriving again, America is winning again and America is being respected again, where respected. In fact, one of the Democrats today said that he, it's a he, sleepy person, said that he heard from a lot of foreign leaders and they want him to be President. Of course they do, so they can continue to rip off the United States. Of course they do, of course. I think if I heard that I'd never vote for him. And then you have Bernie. Bernie. And then you have Bernie. He gets some real beauties, Crazy Bernie. He had a choice between Sleepy Joe and Crazy Bernie, and I'll take any, let's just pick somebody please and let's start this thing. Let's start it. Pick somebody. There were a young man, boot edge edge. Edge, edge. They say edge, edge. He's got a great chance, says he'll be great, he'll be great. Representing us against President Xi of China, that'll be great, that'd be great. I want to be in that room. I want to watch that one. By the way, you see the tariffs were down because they broke the deal. They broke the deal. They broke the deal. So they're flying in the vice premier. Tomorrow he's flying. A good man, but they broke the deal. They can't do that so they'll be paying, if we don't make the deal nothing wrong with taking in over $100 billion a year, hundred billion. We never did that before and we have that happening. A lot of good things happening with a lot of countries. We have a deal with Mexico. We have a deal with kind of -- worst deal NAFTA. How bad was NAFTA? All the empty buildings, all the empty plants. We have a great deal with Mexico and Canada. We've got to get the Dems in the House to approve it and if they don't that'll be OK too, we're going to do something else, we'll be just as good if not better, you always have alternatives, folks. Gotta have alternatives. When they want to hold you up, which is a hold up, when they want to hold you up for political reasons. You always have to have alternatives, that a lot of good alternatives, sometimes better, some of it's better. Our economy is now the hottest anywhere on earth and it's the envy of the world. Every time a foreign leader, a President, a prime Minister, a king, a queen, a dictator, we got some of them too, every time they come into the office they say, ""Congratulations on what you've done for this economy. It's the hottest on Earth, it's incredible."", every single time. That's how they started off the conversation, and you know it because the people of Florida are truly benefiting by what we've done internationally and nationally, so thank you. And our policy can be summed up in three very simple words: jobs, jobs, jobs. The United States economy created another 260,000 jobs last month. Way, way, way above what people thought. They were making predictions much lower than the big one. They were thinking about. 1%, 1.2%, maybe 1.5, and our growth number came in for the first quarter, which is almost always the lowest quarter of the year. Historically, 3.2%, crushing expectations, a lot of surprise people, I wasn't surprised. Since the election, we've created nearly 6 million new jobs, including more than half a million manufacturing jobs and nearly 700,000 new construction jobs. Numbers that, if I would have said this during the campaign, those people back there, I call them the fakers, fake news media, the fakers would have said, ""He exaggerated. He exaggerate."" They are a bunch of fakers, there's no question about it, but you know in six years they're all going to be out of business, folks. They're all going to be out of business. Now if we want to drive them crazy, I'll, say in 10 years they'll go crazy. See he is a despot. He is a despot. Well, 10 or 14, let's see whatever we like, right? Watch, it will be headlines tomorrow. Donald Trump wants to break constitution. Unemployment just reached the lowest rate in more than 50 years. The women's unemployment rate is the lowest in more than 65 years and soon will be a record number. Women, women, remember last election, ""Oh, he's going to do so bad with women."" I did great with women. We did great with women. Hispanic-American unemployment just hit another brand new all-time historic low. African-American unemployment recently achieved the lowest rate in the history of our country, and likewise Hispanic-American unemployment lowest in the history of our country. I'm going to like that on the debate stage, you'll be hearing me  , I'll say, ""The lowest rates ever in history, highest income ever in history for the different groups, highest income."" More people are working today in the United States almost 160 million than have ever worked In the United States before. Nearly 1 million more African-Americans are employed today than when they took office. Think of that, think of that. That's what it is. This guy just screamed out 14 more years now. Fourteen more years after many years of stagnation wages are rising very fast, hasn't happened in 20 years, and they're rising fastest, which makes me feel very good for blue-collar workers, fastest proportionately. And driving our whole agenda is a jobs boom that is historic. Hasn't happened like this in many, many years, if at all. Certainly, during record keeping has not happened like this, and it has a lot to do with the fact that we've cut more federal regulations and regulations than any President in the history of our country. So these great companies now can breathe and hire people, right? OK. And we just passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history, the largest. And we got rid of the individual mandate of Obamacare, the most unpopular. And by the way, we would have repealed and replace Obamacare, but one vote didn't work out after campaigning for eight years, this particular person decided at the last moment to go no, it's all right, we'll get it anyway, doesn't matter. This will end up getting better, we'll end up doing better. Sometimes you know things like that happen and you get angry and you get a little bit sad, and then some of you weep, I don't weep but you don't weep too much. I know too many of you. They never weeped in their life. They didn't weep when they were babies. But you get a little bit angry about it and you know what you do, you go and you fight and it ends up being better than what you were trying to do in the first place, that happens, that happens. And a good one for those of you that love your children, of which I would think, probably it's 95%. To keep your family farms and ranches and small businesses in the family, they don't talk about this. We eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax. So now if you love your child or you love your children and you have a beautiful farm, ranch, small business, it's doing great. You know the old days meeting like about two years ago, they had to go out, borrow money from a bank, lose their business in many cases. Now you don't have a tax, you don't have a tax. So if you love them, good. If you don't love them, I would leave it to them, and it's not going to matter. It won't help you much. But if you love your family, that's what's going to happen. It's a great thing. We're reducing burdens in our businesses, but in return we expect American companies to invest in America, which is what we're demanding to raise wages in America, which is happening and to hire American workers to do the job. That's what we want. And as I stand here floating around on a piece of ice, this is crazy. I'm a little bit concerned about leaving the podium, I'm holding. You have no idea what I'm going through on this stage. It's the worst damn stage I've never seen. I've never seen -- Stupid people did this one. I don't know, or brilliant, or brilliant, it may be enemy. If it is the enemy, then they're brilliant, but I want him the hell out of here. And we're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that enrich Wall Street at the expense of Main Street. You see what's happening, although everyone is doing well right now, everybody, the companies are doing great when Wall Street does good, that's a good thing for us. A lot of you have 401(k)s, where they're doubled what you had just a couple of years ago, right? I tell the story happens a lot, but for some reason this big policeman, you might have heard it, but this big, strong guy comes to me, I was in New York, and he said, ""Sir, thank you. My 401(k)..."", and that was a year ago. This happens all the time. He said his 401(k)s up 47%. He said, ""My wife used to think I was just horrible at investing and now she thinks I'm the greatest investor in the world, and I thank you."" Now the numbers are much better since then, but that's the 401(k)s, everybody's through the roof and we're on the way to keep it that way. We're going to make it better and stronger and we're going to take in a lot of money from a lot of these countries and other folks that have been ripping us off for a long time. Long time. I mean, we pay for the military or we're defending nations that are so rich. And I say to him, ""King, you've got to do me a favor. You got to pay."" ""But nobody has ever asked for money."" I said, ""No, no. You got to pay. You've got to pay."" We'll lose billions and billions of those individual countries, and you know it's one thing, if we're helping people who are being horribly treated and they don't have money, and the countries are -- it's one thing. It's another thing if we're dealing with countries that are loaded with cash, make a fortune, and we're defending them for a tiny fraction of what it costs. It's ridiculous. So it's all changing, lots of changes. One country, I won't say the country, but one country we spend a lot of money on defending. Very dangerous territory and it costs us $5 billion, and I said to a general, ""Please do me a favor, General. Tell me how much is it cost for us to defend this country, which is very rich?"" Sir, I will check. He comes in, ""Sir, it's $5 billion, sir."" I said, ""That's okay. Now, how much do they pay us? ""Sir, they pay us $500 million."" I say, ""We lose $4.5 million to defend a country that's rich as hell and probably doesn't like us too much."" Can you believe that? And we've been defending it for many years. So I call the leader of the country. I said, ""You know it's not fair. We're spending all of this money, great danger, and we have our men and women, they're the best in the world and we're sending them over to your country, not fair. You got to pay, you've got to pay."" And he said, like the king, he said, ""But nobody's ever asked us that before."" I said, ""That's because you had stupid people."" So they said -- they said -- Thank you. He said -- I just wonder if I could give you a hundred stories like this. He said that we can't do anything now because it passed our so-called parliament, and so we can't, it doesn't come due. 'When's next year?"" He said, ""Two months."" I said, ""All right, pay me something now. How much will you pay?"", ""We can't pay you more than $500 million."" I got to say there's one phone call, right? They said, ""Make it 750."" Now that's a long way short of four and a half billion that we're losing, but I should make it 750. Anyway, we agreed to a number around 500 million. It was one phone call that lasted for 10 minutes and once they got over the shock of being -- they have plenty of money. And now the two months is up, and I just told my people call them and ask for the rest of it, OK? But we have many countries like that, I mean, we have many countries like that. We have countries like Saudi Arabia very rich, nothing but cash, right? So I think they can afford to pay us, right, for defense, and they will, and you know what, they will. And they're buying a tremendous amount of equipment, $450 billion they'll be spending in our country. Four hundred and fifty billion. But we have a lot of countries that are rich, that we're defending, and they don't even respect it. Honestly, when I ask them, they almost are looking at me saying, ""I should have thought, you know, like it's amazing that nobody's asked us that."" They don't say that they're smart, but you feel it. So a lot of countries we're defending, it's not fair what's happening, they're paying us a tiny fraction in some cases. We defend Europe, it's not fair they're not paying what they should be paying. We'll work it out, but they got to pay their bills. And you know what? In the end, they're going to like us more and in the end they're going to respect us ,they're going to respect us. Under the previous administration, the United States lost nearly a quarter of a million manufacturing jobs. You remember that. They let other countries raid our factories, steal our jobs and rob us blind, other than that they were very nice. They allowed China to freely loot our economy, plunder our intellectual property and target our industries for destruction. That's what was happening and look, President Xi, who's a friend of mine, great guy, but he -- he's for China, I'm for the USA, I'm for the U.S., so we're going to see. They come in tomorrow, whatever happens, don't worry about it. It'll all work out. You know why, it always does. I'll worry about it. There's no pressure, because you know we're the piggy bank that everybody wants to rob, you understand that. So we have the thing that everybody wants. We're now the biggest market in the world by far. I'll tell you, China was catching us. If another person happened to be in this position right now, first of all, they'd be about 10 people instead of all the people -- hey, I wish the cameras could spin around and show this massive field. You know, they won't do it, they won't do it, they never do it, they don't like to show it. And you know, I actually try and explain the ones that are semi friendly. I said, ""You know, it's good for your production value to do that."" Your production values are much better. Yup, let them know it now. Look at this field. They never show it. They will show the people behind me, congratulate. They may have a lousy seat, but you know what they'll be famous tomorrow. But it is true, they never like to show the crowds. I went to Texas and I made a speech and Beto, Beto. Why has he fallen like a rock? What the hell happened to Beto? So we went to El Paso and I made a speech and we had an arena that holds 8 or 9,000 people, the arena was packed. We had 35,000 people outside we had these massive movie screens outside, so those people that couldn't get in could see. He had 502 people. The next day in the news, the New York Times guy, actually wrote a story that he thinks that he had more people than me. Can you believe this? No, no. Can you believe? So dishonest. And most of them just said, ""Two massive crowds."" Well, his crowd was not massive. He had like 502 people according to the people that count crowds. So we get a very bum press, but that's OK, because we're here and they're not, right? A very dishonest people and maybe it'll change. You know, what's wrong with having a strong military, good education, a strong economy. I don't get it, I don't get it. I don't get it, the hatred is incredible, but let's just keep it going folks, because that's the way it is. But the great betrayal of the American middle class ended the day that I took the oath of office because I'm with you, I'm with you. And there Are those who say, even the fake news media, there are those who say it was the greatest day in the political history of this country's, it's the greatest election, and it continues, you know, because they keep trying to take it away. Let's try to take it our way. That's not working too well, that's not working. But for -- Think of it. I mean, Hillary Clinton is still going up.  ""I think they stole the election."" I know she lost -- the next time.  No, no, the next time, the next time she's got to go to Wisconsin to campaign. You know it hadn't been lost in decades. The people are great in Wisconsin you have to go there and campaign. The people said, ""Oh, you'll, be OK."" The Republicans haven't won the great state of Wisconsin in decades. Got to go there. I went there a lot and in all fairness, her husband Bill, who's a good politician. They didn't listen to him. He said, ""You better go to Wisconsin, you better go to Michigan, I'm seeing a lot of things out there. I see a lot of signs, Trump-Pence. Mike Pence is doing a good job, by the way. Doing a good job. And his wife Karen is doing a great job. Mike. But I see a lot of Trump-Pence signs out there on the lawns. You better go there and they sort of said, ""What the hell does he know? Well he's a pro, he's a pro. He know a lot better than their analysts. Their analysts weren't so good, but you have to go and you have to work and we are officially in a couple of weeks -- we're starting. Can you believe? I got in the White House two and a half years ago and the first night I stood on the area, the beautiful residents, they call it, beautifu"
"Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Thank you. Hello, Green Bay. Thank you. We love Green Bay. Thank you. Thank you. In the great state of Wisconsin, home of the legendary Green Bay Packers and there's no place I'd rather be than right here in America's heartland, right? And there's no one I'd rather be with than you, the hardworking patriots, who make our country run so well and it's running right now better, maybe than it ever has. Thank you. The strength of our nation is found in the heart of our people, so true. Tonight, America's heart is with the victims of the horrific synagogue shooting in Poway, California just happened. Our entire nation mourns the loss of life, prays for the wounded and stands in solidarity with the Jewish community. We forcefully condemn the evil of anti-Semitism and hate, which must be defeated. Just happened, must be defeated. And we are grateful to the law enforcement personnel for their courageous response, incredible response today by law enforcement. And I especially want to recognize a certain off-duty border patrol agent who bravely returned fire and helped disrupt the attack and saved so many lives, border patrol. And I also want to thank Mayor Steve Voss, we had a great conversation and Governor, Gavin Newsom, had a great conversation and we stand together. We will all get to the bottom of it. We're going to get to the bottom of a lot of things happening in our country. Together, we're building a new chapter of American greatness. One, founded on the idea that all citizens are entitled to live in safety, prosperity, and peace. This is an exciting time for our great country. This is an exciting time for America. Just yesterday it was announced that the United States economy grew some people thought unexpectedly, not me, I didn't think. In fact, frankly, if we had the Obama interest rates low, almost nothing, actually nothing. And if we had quantitative easing instead of tightening, we used this conservative approach. We would have been even much higher than this. But this is very high. Far greater. First quarter is always for the most part, it's the lowest quarter. We did 3.2% in the first quarter GDP, crushing expectations and accelerating our economic growth and that was with a shutdown, that was with a lot of different things, that was with bad weather that was with everything you can imagine. Three point two in the first quarter, usually the lowest and worst quarter. And Prime Minister Abe, where negotiating trade deals because every country has been ripping us off for years. And I really like the prime minister, he's a friend of mine, but I said, ""Mr. Prime Minister, we've got to do something."" For so many decades we've been losing tens of billions of dollars to China and Japan, and India, and name any country and we lost, but we're not losing anymore. And I said, ""Listen, we got to do something."" $68 billion in trade losses over the last four, five years a year. So we're renegotiating, and I think you'll be fair, I think you'll be fair. And by the way, he started by saying that he's putting $40 billion into the United States for new car factories. Toyota's coming in with $14 billion, many, many companies are coming in. And they're coming in, frankly to Michigan, they're coming back, they want to be back to Ohio, to Pennsylvania, to North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida and what's the name of this special place? It's called Wisconsin. So they'll be investing very shortly. And it's started already 40 billion with a B, $40 billion, and it'll be a lot more than that. The poverty rate for Wisconsin families has reached the lowest rate in 22 years. The unemployment rate for Wisconsin workers has reached historic lows, never been this low before ever, ever, ever, think of that. Never been, historic low, and we're now the No. 1 economy anywhere in the world and it's not even close. By the way, Saturday night, is there any place that's more fun than a Trump rally? Can you imagine Sleepy Joe, Crazy Bernie, you look at the candidates, right? I think Pocahontas, she's finished, she's out, she's gone. Now, when it was found that I had more Indian blood in me than she did. And then it was determined that I had none, but I still had more. That was the end of her 32 year scam on colleges. But can you imagine any of these people up here doing what I'm doing? There'd be 200 people show up if they were President, if they weren't President, nobody would show up. Is that right? And I have to say, I was saying on the way over, they told me about bad weather, by the way, we may have to cancel tonight. I said, ""Are you crazy?"" Now can you imagine? I learned this morning, they thought you could have a big snowstorm, right? A big, big snowstorm. The people that get it wrong, the most are the weather forecasters and the political analysts. Now they said there's a big, big storm, it's going to be hitting Green Bay. we may have to cancel. I said, ""like hell, we're going to cancel. People are standing out."" People are standing out 24 hours ago, 32 hours ago outside, who stood out there for 24 hours. Thank you. We love you. Thank you. Thank you. And you know what, and you're rewarded with the best seats in the house, right? That's right. America's future has never been brighter yet the Democrats, those very friendly people in Washington have never been angrier than they are today. You see, somebody else with a very low level of energy we're supposed to be standing here instead of me. They wouldn't be in this room. I don't know they've got some problems, I would say that. But you know, if you look, two weeks out in 2016, I was going to rallies we were doing five and six like this, and there were thousands of people outside just like there are right now. We had 69,000 people sign up to come in. What is this place on like ten or twelve or whatever, whatever it holds, we set the record. I just was told by the owners, where's the owner? Nice guy. I don't know what the hell it holds, but we just set the record. Where's the owner? Is this your record? Thank you. Whoa, thank you. It's always dangerous. He said yes, it is sir. It's always dangerous. He goes, ""No, sir."" I'm dead. They will take -- they will take that answer and that will be headline. Thank you very much, you saved me. Now this is the record, we set records everywhere and it's not me. There's a movement like we've never seen in the history of our country. But the radical liberal democrats put all their hopes behind their collusion delusion, which has now been totally exposed to the world as a complete and total fraud, the greatest political hoax in American history, really has been. So this witch hunt was never really just about me. It was always about stopping you, the millions and millions of freedom-loving citizens, who rose up on that incredible November day. Remember that day? November. And demanded a government that puts America first, OK? And we're doing that with China, we're doing that with India, we're doing that with Japan, we're doing it with a great new trade deal, that hopefully will get approved in the house. I hope they're going to approve it because it's great for the farmers, everybody wants it, everybody loves it, but we're all signed up and getting ready, I guess in 30 days to put it in, the USMCA, like the song YMCA, right, you remember? USMCA, that's with Mexico and Canada, it's a great deal and it's going to be very really good for manufacturers and really, really good for the farmers, that's what we want to do. Put a lot of pressure on your Congressmen and your Senators because they have to ratify it. You know they have to approve it and frankly, with what you have today, maybe they'd rather have us have a loss than do something that's good for the country, right? Because NAFTA is one of the worst trade deals ever signed in the history of our country. You look at around Wisconsin, but you still see the scars, empty buildings. You up to New England, you go to Ohio, you go to different places, NAFTA was a disaster. And what we had, the one thing I wanted more than anything else, I want to make it almost impossible for a company to leave Wisconsin and leave other states and go to Mexico and go to other places, but go to Mexico, fire its workers, open a new plant in Mexico, hire other workers and sell the equipment into the United States. I don't want that. And we're not going to do it and if it makes it virtually not economically viable, that's what I want. So it's gonna be great. I hope we can get Congress to get it approved quickly because it's going to be fantastic for everybody in this room and especially manufacturers and farmers and people aren't going to be firing people and moving their plants to other countries. Remember that spell we were going through before I was a politician, remember? Can you believe I'm a politician, I can't even. Politician. But you remember that spell where everybody was just leaving the country and going into Mexico, Canada, Mexico, Canada and Canada has been taking big advantage of your agricultural products, you know that. You know Canada, we love the song, Oh, Canada, let's sing Oh, Canada, right? We love the song, but I came up here a year ago and I was with farmers and they were selling specialty milk. Now you're getting killed for years. Two hundred ninety seven percent tariff, that means you can't sell it, that's essentially putting up a barrier. So all of those things are taken care of in this new deal and you're going to be opened up and said, oh, it's gonna be good for everybody. It's gonna be good for everybody and if they didn't approve, I would've just put tariffs on the cars they would have done that. I didn't want to do that. I didn't want to do that. But I said, ""If that's not gonna happen, we're putting tariffs on the cars, and frankly we'll make more money, but the farmers wouldn't be helped so much. But you watch the company grow and prosper as you start."" That's no good, right? So we like it and it's good actually it's good for Canada, it's good for Mexico, it's good for us. We've got to get Congress to approve it. So put a lot of pressure on these geniuses we have over here. That's going to be a great trade deal. And we're very close to making a deal with China, but who knows? I always say, who knows because who the hell knows? The deal is either going to be a great deal, it has to be. I told President Xi, he's a friend of mine. I said, listen, this can't be like a good deal for both. This has to be a deal because we have been losing to China for many years, $500 billion a year. We have rebuilt China. We've given them so much. Well think of it. Let's cash, you know, they can say it's surplus, they can say it's deficit, call it whatever it is, we will lose it cash. We're giving them five hundred, how the hell can you do it. And as Prime Minister Abe said to me today, he said nobody's ever talked to me this way from our country. True. No, he said it friendly. He -- he said it friendly, he's a friend of mine, but he said nobody from this country, no president has ever said this. You know, nobody ever even talked about it. We lose 75 billion a year. Japan, as an example, sells us their cars, the cars come in, no tax. They don't take our cars. Other than that it's a very fair deal. So the cars come in. Essentially, it's two and a half percent, but essentially it's not tax. Our agriculture, they don't want it. We want to sell the agriculture. So they sell cars, we sell practically nothing. That's how we have these massive imbalances with so many countries. Now China's the big one, because with China it's at least $375 billion year deficit. Think of it. three hundred, who the hell wants -- who made these deals? It's true. Honestly, in all fairness to Obama, this was him, but this was before Obama, a long time before Obama, this has been going on for a long time and all I'm telling you is if we don't make a deal we're going to do even better, OK. We have all the cards. Don't forget, we're the piggy bank that everybody's robbing. We're -- we're the ones, we're the piggy bank that everybody is stealing from and robbing and taking advantage of. But no matter how hard they try to stop us, they can't because our love for America will always be stronger than a corrupt thirst for power. This -- I don't -- I'll tell you what, you know, people say, oh, he's wants to take over the country. He wants to extend, they don't believe I'm leaving in six years. He wants to extend, he wants to have a presidency for life. These are sick people. I promise, at the end of six years, I'll be very happy but you're going to be left with the strongest country you've ever had. I promise you. You're right, USA, we love USA and that's right. And that's what this fight is all about. We're taking on the failed political establishment and restoring government of, by, and for the people, it's the people, you're the people, you won the election. And if you look at what's happened with this scum that's leaving the very top of government, people that others use to say, oh, that's one that dirty, these were dirty cops, these were dirty players. You take a look at what's going on. There's 21 of them already and I'm not even doing that, just leaving because they got caught like nobody ever got caught and then a truest sense of the word, what we are doing now is draining the swamp, that's true. I mean, we're draining the swamp, but are we having a good time or what? And look at all those beautiful red hats and some white ones, some white ones. Look at that. Those are a lot of red hats but you do have the white ones too, right? And you have the black ones too, you have a lot of them, you have a lot of different hats but let me just say, so we have to make a decision, you want to make it tonight. So we're doing great, the country is doing great. We're rebuilding our military. We're doing so many things, listen, so we have a decision to make. We may have the greatest theme in the history of politics called Make America Great Again. It's called MAGA country, MAGA country. It's called MAGA country. You know, I didn't hear that term until that third-rate actor in Chicago went out and he said, ""I was beaten up by MAGA country. Can you believe it?"" Now that's a hate crime, right? He said he was beaten up by MAGA country, turned out to be a total lie, but think of it, MAGA, Make America Great Again. And by the way, I have to tell you, that case in Chicago is a disgrace to our nation. Disgrace. So -- so we have a decision to make. Now, if this weren't the greatest thing -- I really believe that it's been said, but make America Great Again, Ronald Reagan used seldom Let's Make America Great, close but not the same. Let's, apostrophe s, you don't want the apostrophe, it's too complicated, doesn't work, but Ronald Reagan was good. He said Let's Make, but he didn't use it and we use it a little bit. We seriously use it, right? MAGA. And MAGA we got for free because my whole deal was Make America Great Again, all of a sudden people to say go and #MAGA, but we have a choice to make and a decisions to make. So very shortly we're going to say, you see what we did with our vets, we have choice, we're going to go over, we have accountability where you can find -- We have a lot of things, OK, we've done so much. Our military is like going to be very soon in great shape. We took 100% of the caliphate in Syria. Everyone said, ""Oh, you're never going to be."" And by the way, by the way, and when some whack job, that picks up something over the internet goes out and blows up a store and people get killed, I understand that happens. I understand because these people are sick, they're demented. But we nevertheless, in terms of a war, we took 100%, but you're going to have these cells and they're going to do damage. And it's a shame and we've got to stop them. We've done a great job, but we've got to be careful. We've got to be good, these are sick, horrible human beings, if you even call them human beings. So we've got to be careful. And you know what, when you see -- and I say this because we have a massive television rights. Do you ever see so many cameras? If somebody else were here, you'd have about like none. It's like the Academy Awards used to be before they started hitting us and their ratings started falling like a rock. True. So we have a choice tonight. Ready? So Make America Great Again. The problem is we've made America great. We're going to have a couple of things to do. We should have had health care, but one man decided to vote against us at the last moment. That was -- even though he campaigned for eight years repeal and replace, but that's OK, that's OK because we're coming up, we win, we're coming up with a great package of health care. We're going to be the party of health care. We're coming up with a great package after the election. We've got to take back the House. We've got to win the Senate, we've got to win the presidency, we're going to have bread, but we got rid of the individual mandate. That's the big thing that the worst part of it. So here's what our decision is, do we use, for the new campaign, which will be starting soon, we have the great Sarah Huckabee over here. Sarah? Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, I thought it was going to be a little warmer here in Wisconsin, but it's pretty hot in this room tonight. Thanks to -- Thanks for the amazing things you've done for our country last year. This night, I was on a slightly different event, not quite the best welcome. So this is an amazing honor. I'm so proud to work for the President. They said he couldn't win in 2016 and he did. They said that he couldn't make our economy better and it's booming. They said he couldn't rebuild the military and he's done it. They said there was collusion and there wasn't. They've questioned him at every step and he's proven them wrong every single time because of all of you. Thank you, Mr. President for leading our country. Thank you. Oh, she doesn't get it. She doesn't get it. She doesn't understand me after all these years. She's becoming too popular. I'm jealous, Sarah, you're fired. She was wondering what was that all about. She's been great and Dan Escovedo and Mike and the whole group and Madeline, everybody, what a group. What a group. No, they're great people and they really love this country and what they've been through -- they've been through a lot. They've been through a lot of phony stuff. The witch hunts, they've been through a lot. So we're delighted to be joined tonight by many incredible Wisconsin Republican leaders. A really great friend of mine, a man who is really the focus of what's going on in so much of Washington. A very tough guy, very strong guy. I call him Wisconsin tough and I don't even know if you know it and I don't know if you appreciate it, but I'm telling you he's really good. Ron Johnson. Thank you, Ron, a great job. He's doing a big job now, I can tell you that he's working on some things that are very important. And members of Congress, Bryan Steil. Bryan. Thank you, Bryan. Glenn Grothman. This guy, every time I introduce him, you know I love champions. I don't care if it's in sports. I just like champions. So he's your tree-climbing champion, you know,  for five years, and that's not easy. He'd go up and come down. He said the hard part was coming down because you'd get killed if you missed. But for five years he was the champion, the world champion, five years. And he's with us tonight and I'll tell you, he's our champion, he fights so hard. He's working on a reciprocal trade bill. So if somebody charges us a tariff of 100% or 50% or 25%, we say thank you very much. We're going to have a reciprocal tax of 25 or 50 . What could be wrong with that? And he's leading the charge and he's got tremendous enthusiasm but he's a great guy, and he's a great champion. Sean and his wife, by the way, is better than him. Sean Duffy and another great friend of mine somebody that's been so effective, Mike Gallagher. Mike, thank you again. Thank you. Thanks, Mike. And thanks also to Wisconsin house majority leader, Jim Steineke. Jim, thank you, great. Oh, Wisconsin. Senate President, Roger Roth, Senate Majority Leader, Scott Fitzgerald, thank you. These are great people, they've done so much for us. So we have other leaders in the room, but we all know who they are. They've been incredible. The Republican Party has been incredible after just the first two years time. America is winning again and America is respected again all over the world, no more games, all over the world. Since the election, we've created more than six million new jobs. Nobody would believe that. If I said this, when I came here often, I came here often. Remember I came and they didn't like certain people that were with me, they booed the hell out of those people, but they like me, that's all that matters. If I would have said six million jobs we're going to create, by this time two and a half years, can you believe how time flies? Two and a half years already. I said the other night, I remember, first night, standing in my bedroom, I should say our bedroom, with our great first lady, I said, ""Do you believe?"" First night, I said, ""Here we are, here we are, in the White House."" And four years sounded so long away and now four years is coming up with two and a half years and no administration has done as much as we have in the first three years, every. So -- Thank you. And by the way, yesterday was our first lady's birthday and people love her. We're about the same age, very close. But if I would have said that we would be a two and a half year creating six million jobs, people would have laughed 600,000 manufacturing jobs. Remember, President Obama said manufacturing jobs are gone. You need a wand, a magic wand. We found the magic wand because they're coming and they're coming fast, and those are great jobs. There's a great -- in the state of Wisconsin alone, we have created 23,000 brand new manufacturing and construction jobs, a record. And after years and years of declining wages, wages are rising for the first time in 21 years. And you know what's nice, because I have a couple of friends here, they're pretty wealthy people, very successful people, and you know what the hell with it. I don't care. I care about everybody. You know what I love? You know what I love? I love the fact that wages are rising fastest for the lowest income Americans, for single jobs. You know when they say it hasn't trickled down, the most success percentage wise, the most successful are the lowest income Americans, there's something great about that. And people that are now able to go out, you know, we got Veterans Choice. We also have employment choice because you never had a chance yet to stay in a job that you hated or you couldn't get a job. Now you can go out, you have seven alternatives, you get a job that you love and you get much higher salaries, it's great. And you've heard me say this a hundred times, but I say it again and I'll keep saying it, ""The unemployment rates for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans have all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country."" And remember this, if I make any mistakes, if I'm off by just a little tiny bit, those people back there will be headlines. So I have to be very careful, fake news. They're fake, they are fake, they are fakers. I'll tell you, you know what sucks, their ratings suck because people don't believe in them anymore. We have cut 30,000 pages of job-killing regulations from the federal register, that's an all time record, It's never happened before. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in our nation's history. And you know something that is very important to me and very important to -- because of you, to keep family farms, ranches, and small businesses together in the family. When you pass on and go to heaven so you can look down at these great children and you don't like your children, don't listen to what I'm going to say. Probably a couple of you out there just say, you know, ""I don't like a kid. I'm not leaving them my damn farm, right? Anybody in here like that, raise your hand. No don't. But on the assumption that you love your kids, and you love your family, and you want to leave the farm, you remember what used to happen. The estate tax was 45, 50, 55%. They had to go out and borrow money and sometimes the land is worth more than the income and they couldn't do it in the banks end up in the banks fight them, and that's not what they do for a living, the kids, and they lose the farm, they lose the ranch, they lose the small business, right? Well, we have eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax on all of those things. Zero. Zero, that's a good one. After decades of calamitous trade deals that stripped away our wealth, literally stripped away this country's wealth, and our jobs and so many other things, took away our dignity when great companies would leave the United States for another country because of stupid taxes because of stupid regulations, because frankly, in some cases and the unions are going to work on this, I tell them, ""You've got to work on this, you've got to have a little flexibility because there are other choices."" But now the choices are going to be other states. They're going to be competition. But you know what, now, America fought back and all of these companies are coming back into our nation again, they want to be where the action is. They want to be where the action is. They're all coming back, all of them. And the era of economic surrender is over. That's what we did. We would like -- You remember that I used to do it when I was a civilian when I had no idea, I was going to be running for president, right? I had no idea. I used to say what the hell is going on in Michigan. They gave me an award six years, seven years ago. I had no idea. It was the man of the year in Michigan. I went to Michigan, I said, do you people know what's happening? You're losing all your car companies, they're all leaving. They're going to Mexico, Canada, they're leaving. They're going to China. You know what the hell is -- And this was before I was thinking about running for office. But I've been saying it for 20 years and now we've stopped it. Those companies are all coming back straight. When the Wisconsin timber industry was threatened, my administration took immediate action. We impose tariffs on dumped foreign goods and subsidized products and saved countless timber jobs all across this great state. And you know that, you know that John, big difference, right, they were losing -- you were losing a lot of jobs and they were taking the timber from other states and other countries, nope, not anymore, we're doing good. Before I took office, one of the greatest threats to the future of American manufacturing was the previous administration's Trans Pacific Partnership. You think NAFTA would have been bad? This would have made NAFTA look like a good deal. The TPP would have decimated U.S. manufacturing and gutted America's auto industry, would have gutted the industry and they were dying to do this crazy deal. I also ended up another one, you know, the great Paris Accord. How -- how's Paris doing lately? How'd Paris? How's Paris doing? Send all the money to countries that the people never heard of and raised their taxes. I ended that one too. I thought I was going to take a lot of heat on that one. Saved a lot of money, saved a lot of jobs, saved a lot of businesses. I said, you know when I end this Paris Accord, I'm going to take heat. I didn't even take heat. My people understood it, it was a ripoff. It didn't allow us to use our wealth, would have stolen our jobs, but just take a look at what's happening to other places where they're trying to do it. And we had something we would have never ever been able to adhere to the rules, they were so strict on us. You know, China can sign rule. They're not going to be sued by Greenpeace. If Greenpeace goes to China, that's the end of Greenpeace, you never see them again. So China doesn't care if they violate Greenpeace and some of these other wonderful environmental groups. But the United States get sued and we adhere to these things. It's a little bit different. We would have lost our ass on that deal. That would have been a terrible deal and that's why I was willing to take the heat, but there was no heat. I'm still waiting. I guess at some point they'll bring it up. They'll probably bring it up. Bernie Sanders will say, ""What?"" I'll say, ""Take a look at Paris on a Saturday afternoon, Bernie, how they doing over there? Good?"" The yellow vests, how are they doing? I don't think so good, and they're great friends of mine, but I don't think they're doing so good. That's why in one of my first acts as President, I withdrew the United States from the one sided job killing disaster known as TPP. TPP, what a mess. That was another one of these deals that was set up for the strict purpose of taking wealth out of the United States for the benefit of those other countries that were in the deal. It was a one sided horror show. America will not be taken advantage of any longer. For years we gave foreign nations free and unfettered access to our economy while they constructed massive barriers to American exports. We give them, you come in, take us, Joe, it's wonderful, we want to go there. No, we don't do that, we don't accept your product. Oh, that's wonderful. As one example, we charge other countries, zero tariffs on foreign paper products, but when Wisconsin paper companies export it abroad, they sent their product abroad, China charged us big tariffs, India charged us big tariffs, Vietnam charge us massive tariffs. Unfair. Reciprocal trade act, John, reciprocal trade act. Look at Harley Davidson. Look at Harley Davidson. I met with them three years ago, one of my first meetings, Harley Davidson. And I said to the people are very nice. They would tell me tough to do business in certain kind -- ""How you're doing in India?"" and they said, ""Oh, we don't do any business."" They weren't even complaining because so many years. So India charged a 100% tariff on a Harley Davidson, but when they send their motorcycles and they make 'em, to us. We charge them nothing. So I called up Prime Minister Modi, I said unfair, he cut it 50%. But he said that's not good enough because look, it's 50% to nothing. And what we're doing is changing all of that stuff, changing all of that rapidly, rapidly change. And that goes for military protection also, that goes for military protection also where we are getting ripped. We're defending the world, we're defending wealthy countries that can well afford to pay us, but they've been getting this free military or at least massive partial subsidies for so many years. It's almost like habit, it's more habit than anything else. Nobody does anything about it, but we do. There's one country we lose $5 billion. I won't say it. I don't want to embarrass anybody. The last thing I want to do is embarrass somebody, but they lose. We spend $5 billion a year defending them, right. So I said to the generals, ""How much do we spend?"" they say, ""Sir, we spent $5 billion."" Very wealthy country. I said, ""How much do they pay?"" ""Sir, they pay $500 million."" I said, ""You mean we lose four and a half billion dollars to defend it?"" And they're rich. So I called the country, right, I called the country. So we lose four and a half billion for the privilege of defending a country. That's very tough on us on trade and various other things. So I called, I said, ""Listen, no good."" Now that we're in a state of shock because they never got a call like this in twenty five years. So I said, ""It's no good. We're losing four and a half billion dollars. It's no good. We can't do this anymore, this is crazy."" And he got very upset. Angry. ""This is not fair."" I said, ""Of course it's fair."" He said, ""Well, we'll give you 500 million more because the budget you see had already been set, there's only a month left."" So you know, I said, ""You know what, I want more."" We argued. So they paid us more than 500 million for one phone call. It took me one call. Now I'm not bragging, I hate the deal. For one call. Ron knows. First call they've had in 35 years. I don't think they've had a call. One-sided horrible deal. So I said, ""It's OK. You know, I understand you have budget. You know you go through a budget next year, which now turns out to be in about two weeks. I said we're going to call you for much more. You got to pay, y"
"Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much, Grand Rapids. It's great to be back. Right here in America's heartland. You know that, right? With the hard-working patriots from the great state of Michigan. By the way we are bringing a lot of those car companies back. Remember I told you they are coming back? They are pouring back in. They are coming back. They are coming back fast. This has been an incredible couple of weeks for America. The economy is roaring. The ISIS caliphate is defeated 100 percent. And after three years of lies and smears and slander the Russia hoax is finally dead. The collusion delusion is over. The Special Counsel completed its report and found no collusion and no obstruction. I could have told you that two and a half years ago very easily. Total exoneration. Complete vindication. You know, it's interesting Robert Mueller was a God to the Democrats, was a God to them until he said there was no collusion. They don't like him so much right now. The crazy attempt by the Democrat party and the fake news media right back there -- And the deep state to overturn the results of the 2016 election have failed, the greatest election that we've had in a long time may be right from the beginning.  This was nothing more than a sinister effort to undermine our historic election victory and to sabotage the will of the American people. This is the one we want. We want ourselves. We want us and that's what we got. We came from all over to vote. They've never taken it away from us, never. Never. Our movement took on the political establishment, the corrupt media and it's never been more corrupt than it is today. And many special interests, that's why they tried to do everything possible to take us out but we are very tough to take out aren't we? Very, very, very. The Russia witch hunt was a plan by those who lost the election to try and eat illegally regain power by framing innocent Americans, many of them. They suffered with an elaborate hoax. They wanted to destroy a movement like our country has never seen before. That's true. Never seen before. And believe me, if these people thought that that wasn't true, they would be writing it. They've never seen anything like it. Nobody has in this country's history and in most countries histories there has never been anything like what we did in 2016 on November 8. We defeated a very corrupt establishment and we kept our promise to the American people and it's driving them crazy. Today our movement and our country are thriving. Their fraud has been exposed and the credibility of those who pushed this hoax is forever broken and they've now got big problems. And the harm done to our country -- think of what they've done. Think of the time wasted and yet despite this terrible cloud, this phony, corrupt, disgusting cloud we have done more together in the first two years than any administration in the history of our country. And this group of major losers did not just ruthlessly attack me, my family, and everyone who questioned their lies, they tried to divide our country, to poison the national debate, and to tear up the fabric of our great democracy, the greatest anywhere in the world. They did it all because they refuse to accept the results of one of the greatest Presidential elections, probably number one in our history. Many, many people were badly hurt by this scam. But more importantly our country was hurt. Our country was hurt and they're on artificial respirators right now.  They are getting mouth to mouth resuscitation. Little pencil-neck Adam Schiff. He's got the smallest, thinnest neck I've ever seen.  He is not a long ball hitter but I saw him today well, we don't really know. There could still have been some Russia collusion. Sick. Sick. These are sick people and there has to be accountability because it's all lies and they know it's lies. They know it. They know it. Jerry Nadler, I've been fighting him for many years. He was the Congressman from Manhattan. I built great things in Manhattan. I had to beat him many, many times. Now I come here, I have to beat him again. Can you believe? I want every record in the history of the Trump organization. Every single sheet of paper. And what do you have to justify? Nothing. It doesn't matter. We will find something somewhere along the line. A mistake must have been made. These people are sick. Sick. Every single deal. Every single paper. All of the Democrat politicians, the media bosses bad people. The crooked journalist, the totally dishonest TV pundits and by the way they know it's not true. They just got great readings. By the way their ratings dropped through the floor last night. Did you see that? And our friends Tucker, Sean, Laura through the roof last night. And all of the current and former officials who paid for, promoted, and perpetuated the single greatest hoax in the history of politics in our country they have to be -- I'm sorry. They have to be accountable. Just think of. A fake, dirty dossier millions and millions of dollars paid for it. By who? Crooked Hillary Clinton, the DNC and the Democrat party. Think of it. This is what they used. But they failed. They failed in one way. Can you believe it? Maybe I got lucky. Maybe I got lucky because the fake news they wouldn't put it on. Even they didn't be leave it. Think of it, they spent millions of dollars and the deal was they get it published or printed all of these horrible lies, all now totally exposed as fake. They were going to get it printed just before the election and they couldn't get any of the media to print it. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. You never know. You never know. You lose a few vote and that could be the difference but they wouldn't print it so I will tell you on that score I give the media a lot of credit. It came out after the election and everybody had a big, fat yawn.  And I heard about Russia. I'd be running, I'd be hearing -- they'd say something about Russia. I'd say Russia, what does that have to do -- ? This went on. Little -- and then all of the sudden I hear were you involved with Russia? I say Russia? What the hell does Russia have to do with my campaign? It's true. Russia. Russia. You know I go up to Wisconsin where she didn't go, she was told you know many, many years, decades, since a Republican one although Bill Clinton said he was in Wisconsin and you'd better get up there, there are a lot of signs up saying Trump Pence, a lot of signs. A lot of those signs. You'd better get up there darling. And they said no, no, no. Don't worry about Wisconsin because you know Wisconsin the pollsters say we're doing great. They don't come to a place called Michigan. Have you ever heard of Michigan? Michigan. And Bill Clinton said you know I was in Michigan, you'd better get to Michigan. It's not looking good. They have so many of those damn signs. Every place I look they have the sign on somebody's lawn. You'd better get up to -- know, Michigan hasn't been lost in decades by the Dems. By the Dems. Hasn't been lost. And if you remember this was my last stop. This was it. And I'll never forget this was a spur of the moment because I heard crooked Hillary and Bill, Barack Obama and Michelle -- they were all headed here, right, at the last moment. They had a tiny, little crowd and I had I'd like to say more but I can't have more than this because every seat is gone and outside you have 25,000 people. And I remember leaving and I said so she's got 500 people and I had 32,000 people including the people outside. I will tell you we have more tonight because outside we have even more than we did then. And I started speaking at 1 o'clock in the morning so it's now election day. In fact I actually said am I allowed to do this? It's 1 o'clock in the morning. I had made six speeches and when I heard she was coming I said you know what, what the hell.  So it was spur of the moment, last second. We called and we had 32,000 people including all of the people outside. She had . I said so let me explain. Let me ask. So she's here at prime time 730, I'm here at one in the morning. She has 500 or 600 people, I have 32,000. Can you explain why am I going to lose Michigan? Why? Why am I going to lose Michigan? Why am I going to lose the great state? I was asking my people. I get home at 4 o'clock in the morning and I told our great First Lady, soon to be first lady -- and she's doing a great job. They love her. I said you know I have this incredible crowd and I didn't start speaking until 1 o'clock in the morning. I said how the hell could I lose Michigan and guess what we didn't lose Michigan. And you know what, we didn't lose Wisconsin either. And the fact is we won a lot of places that night. We won Pennsylvania. We won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. We won Florida. We ran the East Coast. We won Iowa, you'd better believe Iowa. We love Iowa. We won. We won a lot. We won a lot. Well, we 306 to 223. Would you say that's good? I say that's good. Because of here. Remember they said there is no way -- . The day of the election I'm saying you know this is pretty lousy. It's all fake news. You know they are trying to put it in your head. They go there is no way to 270. In other words I needed 270 to win. There is no way for Donald Trump, I wasn't President. Then, I was a little short of President There is no way on CNN for Donald Trump, remember the red board? It was so red; the red was killing -- they were dying. There is no way for 270 for Donald Trump. It will be a very short evening for Donald Trump there just is no way and they were right. We didn't get 270. We got 306. But in this country --  But in this country, we cannot criminalize political differences, political differences. We do not abuse the law enforcement and intelligence power to target our political opponents when they spy on me. Whoever heard of this? They spied on me. They spied on our campaign. Who would think that's possible? The single greatest political hoax in the history of our country and guess what? We won. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. We love to win. They tried to take something great away from people that came from all over. I always say, they came from the valleys, they came from the mountains, they came out of the damn rivers. I don't know what you were doing in the river but they came from the cities. They came and they came and they didn't even know these people existed. They are hard-working. They are successful, they are the smartest people, they are the toughest people, they are the most loyal people. They are. They are the smartest. Remember this about yourself. You know I always hear the easily, the release. Well, I always said they said it. I said it here my last night. I always say they say the easily. They are the elite, I am not. Well, I have a better education than them, I'm smarter than them. I went to the best schools, they didn't. Much more beautiful house, much more beautiful apartment, much more beautiful everything. And I'm President and they are not, right? And then they say the elite, the elite. They are not elite, you are the elite. We are the elite. I get a kick. I hear so and so the elite. Then you see this guy, like this little schlepper, this is elite? I'm not elite. This is elite. We are the elite. You are smarter. You are sharper. You are more loyal. You are a hell of a lot tougher. A hell of a lot tougher. So we can't have two different standards of justice in our country. One where the left wing radical establishment can get away with anything they want. But you know, I have to tell you. I said it last night, we have some great, great friends in the media too. You look at Rush and Sean -- And Laura and Steve and Ainsley and Tucker and Jeanine. Jeanine is back, going to be back on Saturday night. Jeanine, right? And even Greg likes me now. Greg. He started a little slow but he likes Trump. But we have a lot of great support. We really do. We have a lot of great support. Far more than you think but where we really have the support are the voters that pull that handle or whatever the hell they are pulling they are pulling it for us. So the Russia hoax proves more than ever that we need to finish exactly what we came here to do. Drain the swamp. The Democrats have to now decide whether they will continue defrauding the public with ridiculous bullshit -- Partisan investigations or whether they will apologize to the American people and join us to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, bring down the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs which we are doing incredibly, help us fix our broken trade deals which are coming along really well. We have our team right now in China. They just arrived. China. China. We've gone up, they've gone down but we want them to be healthy. We want them to be happy and healthy. China. And by the way we are building the wall as us -- , we are building that wall. Building -- We are building that wall.  We had to go down a little bit of a different path but that's okay. National emergency it is. And if you look at the border and you look at the hundreds of thousands of people that are invading or at least trying to invade our country you would know that we needed and we are building it. And we are building it a lot faster than anybody would -- and better, and better. It's better. It's faster and it's less expensive. And it's also much more beautiful. And we are building it very rapidly. It's moving along and we renovated vast amounts of wall. A lot of it was in bad shape, we renovated it for 25 cents on the dollar. That's okay, too, right? That's good too. The fake news doesn't want to give us any credit for renovation. They say even if you rip it down and build a brand-new wall where the wall was, they call that a renovation. That's not a renovation for me. That's not. They do anything they can to -- you're right. Shifty Schiff. They do whatever they can do sort of make it look not so good. We are really doing well but we have a problem. Our country has never been better economically and people are trying to get in and they have to come in legally and they have to come in based on merit. Based on merit. Despite all that we have been forced to endure every day we are working and fighting and winning. Remember that because we are making America great again and we are making a great for all Americans, all Americans. And it's getting to be that time, very important. MAGA country. You heard the other day. How about in Chicago? He said -- He said he was attacked by MAGA country. Did you ever hear that one? I don't know -- . May be the only time I've ever agreed with the Mayor of Chicago. That's a terrible situation. That's an embarrassment not only to Chicago. That is an embarrassment to our country what took place there. Remember that. But they are looking at it. So we are delighted to be joined this evening by some really incredible people. People that love you. Members of Congress. Bill Huizenga. Where is Bill? Bill Huizenga. Where is he? Where the hell is he? You didn't get a very good location.  You didn't get a good bill. You did not get a great location but we have some news. John Moolenaar. Thank you, John. And Jack Bergman. Thank you, Jack. So here's something good. You ready? In honor of those guys and some of your other representatives and all that we think are fantastic we have some breaking news. You ready? I don't know. Can you handle it? I don't think you can handle it. I support the Great Lakes. Always have. They are beautiful. They are big, very deep, record deepness, right? And I'm going to get in honor of my friends full funding of $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative -- Which you have been trying to get for over 30 years. So we will get it done. It's time. It's time. It's time. You been trying to get it over 30 years. I would say it's time. Right? Also and as you know this one, we have already pretty much locked up, I'll say locked up. You all understand that because we are very close to getting started on the beautiful new Soo Locks that people have wanted to build for a very, very long time. So we are very close to finishing that one off. And by the way don't let your new Democrat Governor -- or don't let -- Don't let any of our people that find us all of the way now that we have it take credit for it. Okay? Don't let it. Don't let it. You are too smart for that. We are also joined this evening by the Speaker of the Michigan House Lee Chatfield. Thank you, leave. Thanks, Lee. A person who is doing a fantastic job GOP Chairwoman Laura Cox. And a woman you know very well, she headed up Michigan. They said she was wasting her time, Trump is never going to win Michigan. I said but I'm going to bring back your auto business. Remember? And I did, and I did. And when we won, I said who is that woman? I want to see her and we put her in charge of the RNC, Republican National Committee. Ronna McDaniel. Ronna. And a friend of mine, he used show but he's very rich he shouldn't be shy. He's one of the biggest builders and real estate people in the world, one of the biggest owners of property. I shouldn't introduce them because you guys will like him because he's a big owner of property but you own -- you own property, he just owns more of it than you do.  And he's a great guy and he's been with me from the beginning, Stanley Chera. Stanley. Those big beautiful buildings in Manhattan. You know those big beautiful buildings? He owns it. Stanley, how much did you make this month?  Stanley is a great guy. Been with us all. He loves you and he's been with us from the beginning and we've had a lot of people with us. We've had people you wouldn't believe we've had a lot of support. In the last two years we've embarked on an unprecedented economic revival. Unprecedented. America is now the hottest economy anywhere on the planet Earth. There's nobody close. Since our election when the stock market is up almost 50 percent. You are looking like geniuses with your 401(k)s, right? Your wife or your husband is saying darling, you're such a great investor. How are we doing? We are up 67 percent. Oh, darling, you're so brilliant.  In your whole life you've been criticized by her or him but all of the sudden they think you are the single greatest investor. Thank you, Donald.  By the way if you want to see those 401(k)s and all of your stocks and all of the things that you own, you want to see them deflate put a good socialist in this position. Go get yourself a good socialist. You'll see some deflation. You'll see a nice deflate of your stocks and your bonds and your 401(k). We have created since my election 5.5 million new jobs. Nobody would have believed that was possible. Including 600,000 brand-new -- remember, this couldn't happen. You need a magic wand. Brand-new manufacturing jobs. Well, how did that happen? We were going to have any new man -- it was going down 600,000 and it's going to be increasing by a lot because you have a lot of companies pouring into Michigan and your other great states. A lot. More manufacturing jobs in fact were created in 2018 than in the year in more than 21 years. That's not bad. That's not bad. And that's not even one of our better statistics. That's actually like at the bottom of the pack. Do you believe me? After years of stagnation wages are rising fast. Do you remember I use to say that people made more money 21 years ago? All of the time and they had one job then they did -- this is two, three years ago, right, than they did working two and three jobs now. True. But now wages are rising. You have your choice of jobs like I got choice for the veterans, we also got choice for people wanting jobs. So wages are rising substantially for those people. You are doing great but they are also rising most quickly for the lowest income Americans. First time in decades. And here's a statistic that I love because blue-collar jobs recently grew at the fastest pace in more than 30 years. Whoever thought, right? 30 years. And unemployment has reached the lowest rate in 51 years and soon it will be in the history of our country. 51 years. And to me very important, you remember I use to say what do you have to lose? What do you have to lose, right? And I got criticized. You shouldn't say that. I said well, it's true. It's unfair. So importantly to me African-American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, Asian American unemployment and unemployment among disabled Americans have all reached the lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our country. And you remember in the last election they said Donald Trump will not do well with women. I said really? I said really? No. All of the fake news they said you will not do well with women and maybe they didn't want to say they like me to be honest. That I can understand. And then the election came and they said whatever happened to the fact that he wasn't going to do well with women because we did really well with women. Right? Right? Remember when I was sitting back a couple of them were trying, remember one of the true killers she was crying not from happiness. But we did great with women. We did great with women and I think we are going to do better with women now because you know what? I produced. Because women filled more than 60 percent of all new jobs created last year. 60 percent. Think about. 60 percent. So that means the men better get moving, folks. You are falling behind. The women are -- they are beating you pretty good men. Get going. The women got 60 percent of all of the new jobs. I mean that's an incredible number. We've cut the greatest number of regulations in two years in the history of our country. Not for two years, in the history of our country. That's one of the things helping us with the jobs. And the United States people don't even believe this, it all happened very recently is now the number one oil and gas producer in the world. Number one. Number one. And by the way Russia is not happy about that but they are fine. They are doing just fine but they are not happy about that. If Hillary got in you wouldn't have that stat, I can tell you right now. You would be doing wind, windmills and if it doesn't -- if it doesn't blow you can forget about television for that night.  Darling, I want to watch television. I'm sorry, the wind isn't blowing. I know a lot about wind. I know a lot about wind. We passed massive tax cuts, the biggest in the history of our country. And very importantly for those people with small farms and businesses we got rid of the death tax or the estate tax. So now when you leave your farm or small business to your children under the assumption that you like your children, some people don't. Some people say I wouldn't leave it to them under any circumstances. I can't stand my kids but for those of you that do which I assume is hopefully a vast majority you don't have an estate tax to pay, they don't. So they can take over your farm, they can take over your business, they don't have to mortgage it to the hilt and then the bank comes in five years later takes it away from your kids. No tax. We eliminated the Obamacare individual mandate penalty. The most unpopular part and we are going to hopefully in the court -- in Texas you heard we won the case, now it has to be appealed and then we will go to the United States Supreme Court. We have a chance of killing Obamacare. We almost did it but somebody unfortunately surprised us with thumbs down but we will do it a different way. You know what, we will do it a different way but we got rid of the individual mandate where you were forced to pay a lot of money for the privilege of not having to buy bad healthcare. Okay? Not too good. So we are going to get rid of Obamacare. And I said it the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great healthcare. It's good. It's important. And we have created new options to help Americans purchase affordable health plans all across state lines. You now have options you would have never had. The Democrats are pushing socialist government-run healthcare that bans private healthcare for 180 million Americans. Now think of it. A lot of you have private plans and they are great. They are great and you want that. They want to take them away. That's not going to work. I don't think that's going to work too well. Republicans want you to have an affordable plan that's just right for you and by the way you can use your doctor, remember that? That was a lie. 28 times, 28 times he said that was a lie. You get cheaper premiums in much lower deductibles. The deductibles and Obamacare are so high on average $7000. You don't get to use it unless a really great tragedy hits and then you don't really want it because you don't give a damn about your deductible, right? You will be in a position where you say who cares about the deductible. Let's see if I can live. We believe that no one in America should be bankrupted by health care cost and that's what's happening with Obamacare. And remember this because it's very important and I'm speaking now for the Republican party, we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions always. Always. My administration has also begun the bold initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs and in 2018 drug prices saw their first decline in 46 years. First time. First time. And they will be coming down a lot but this is the first time in 46 years that prescription drugs came down. Even Stanley likes that because he needs plenty of them. And then we passed VA Choice and VA Accountability for our amazing veterans. Our amazing veterans. They have been trying to get VA Choice for over 40 years. They couldn't do it. I got it. We signed it six months ago. Now instead of waiting online for one day, one week, two months people that were okay but not feeling well, wait so long that they become terminally ill. There was no reason for it. Now they go outside, they see a private doctor, we pay the bill, they get better quickly. And for 46 years VA Accountability you couldn't fire anybody in the VA. We had sadists. They took advantage in so many ways of our great veterans. They were rough, they wouldn't have hit them in prime time by the way, not in prime time. In prime time they would say okay, I don't want to touch you. I'm not going to play. They took advantage of people that are our great heroes that protected us and you couldn't fire them. They stole, they robbed. You couldn't fire them. It didn't matter what you did you couldn't fire them. Called accountability. We passed seven months ago today we passed VA Accountability. You heard our vets, you stole from us. Guess what, Bill? You're fired. You're fired. Get out. You're fired. And to give former prisoners a second chance I proudly signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform into law. They have been trying to do that for so many years. So many years. Very unfair. And by the way some of the people that most supported it are the most conservative people you've ever seen. Both, both sides. Very bipartisan believe it or not for a change. But while we are pushing and pursuing all of these commonsense policies to advance the common good for our citizens Democrats are pushing a cynical and destructive agenda of radicalism, resistance. Resist. Resist and revenge. Revenge. What do you think of their signs resist? What the hell? Let's get something done, right? Resist. Resist. Resist. Isn't that weird? You know you are looking to have a parade that's called resist. You say what the hell does that mean? No, no. We want to do legislation. There are so many things we can be doing together. The Democrats are now advancing an extreme $100 trillion government takeover called the Green New Deal. But I'd rather not talk about it tonight because I don't want to talk them out of it too soon.  Because I love campaigning against the Green New Deal. I want them to make they do a big part of their platform. No more airplanes, no more cows. One car per family. One car. You're going to love that in Michigan. Hey, how do you like the idea of one car per family? You know, I don't think one car per family in Michigan plays too well. Do you agree? Right? Not too well. And it's got to be of course an electric car even if it only goes what, 160 miles? What do you do, it's 160 miles? Darling, where do I get a charge? Where do I get a charge, darling? No. We want to have a lot of cars per family. We want people to lead a great life and we want people to make those cars and we want all of these companies to keep coming to Michigan and all of the other great states and building those . And we had a problem because when they didn't want the airplanes they were saying well, how do you get to Europe? Nobody knew. How do you get to Australia? Nobody knew but they are working on it and then they were interviewing this woman from Hawaii, the Senator. The one that was so vicious about Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh. Remember? By the way, do we love Justice Gorsuch and do we love Justice Kavanaugh? She was so vicious to both and these are great people. She was vicious and they hit her. She didn't know about the Green New Deal and they hit her and she's from Hawaii. What do you think of the Green New Deal? It was just put up by the Democrats. Well, I like it very much but she never saw it. Then they said but you can't fly anymore and she's in Hawaii. She said but how would I get to my island? They said we are working on some kind of a train system.  So she said okay, well then, I am for it 100 percent. It is the craziest thing I have ever seen. They want to rip down all of the buildings in Manhattan and rebuild them. Let's do that. Hey, Stanley, how do you like that idea? I don't think so. I don't think Stanley likes that idea too much. It's the craziest thing but you know what, let's let them -- . It's like I attack so violently Pocahontas and -- And I knocked her out of the race I guess and I said what did I do that for? It's too early. I've got to start in about nine months from now. We've got plenty more to knock out, you're right. They just keep coming, don't they? They just keep coming. Before I took the oath of office the United States automobile industry was decimated and it was going down and you people knew it better than anybody else. We lost one in four auto manufacturing jobs over the last few decades. Think of it, one in four and I think the numbers were worse than that and so do you. But from the moment I entered the White House my first meeting was a meeting with car executives. I said what do I have to do to get your business going? We talked about CAFE standards where they were choking the engines, just choking them and costing a lot more for the cars and we had a great meeting and we worked on it and worked on it. We took historic and dramatic action to save the American auto industry and to defend American auto workers right here in Michigan. Right. And just in the last very short period of time we have added another 6000 vehicle manufacturing and auto parts jobs in Michigan alone and prevented thousands more from being shipped overseas and from going to Mexico. They can't do that anymore. Can't do that. Can't do that anymore. Sorry, Mexico. We want them to give us a little more help on the border by the way. You know Mexico has the toughest immigration laws in the world. We have the worst because the Democrats put in things that are so bad, so bad. Catch and release. You catch them and then you got to release them. Think of it. Visa lottery. You are in a lottery system from these countries. You pick up a name. Isn't that nice? Guess what? Do you think they are giving us their best people? No, they are not. They are giving us their worst people and so would you and so would I. Visa lottery. That's another beauty. We have nothing but bad coming out of those laws but you know the good thing about what's happening, the rush to the border, another two caravans now are pouring up. Mexico could stop them so easy and you know what? If they don't it's going to cost them a hell of a lot of money honestly because they could do it so easy. So easy. And if they don't and I'm telling you right now we will close the damn border.  And I don't know if you know it or not Michigan but Mexico took about 30 percent of your car business. Not when I was here. When I'm here they are"
"Thank you very much, El Paso. Thank you very much. Thank you. I am very, very thrilled to be here in the great State of Texas -- right on the banks of the legendary Rio Grande, where by the -- well, I don't know, you heard, right? Today we started a big, beautiful wall right on the Rio Grande. Right smack on the Rio Grande. I love this state and I love the people of this state. We've had a great romance together. You know, that. It's been a great romance and we're only getting stronger together. That's what's happening. Wow, look at all the press back. You believe that?  This is like the Academy Awards used to be, used to be. They've gone down a long way since they started hitting us a little bit, right? They've gone down. That was a long -- that was a long fall, but there they are. Last week I was honored to stand in the House Chamber to deliver the State of the Union -- and I asked both parties to come together to choose greatness for America. Since taking office two years ago our economy is now the hottest economy anywhere on Earth. Our military, which desperately needed funding, we went $700 billion and $716 billion, is More powerful than ever before. That was not a good situation. It was tired and depleted. Our great warriors were not taken care of. Now they're taken care of again the way they should be. And America is winning again. Isn't that nice? We're fighting for all Americans, from all backgrounds of every age, race, religion, birthplace, color, creed. We're fighting for ourselves. We're fighting for all Americans. And what is it, America first? Remember, it's America first.  Our agenda is not a partisan agenda, although some people say it is.  Every once in a while it does become that way. Right? It's a mainstream, common sense agenda of the American people. It's where we want to be and where we want to go. And despite the fact that the media refuses to acknowledge what we've done and how well we're doing it --  -- a new poll just came out as I was coming on and it shows -- I don't know how you can do this, I don't think I've had a good story in years.  I don't get good -- I used to get great press until I decided to run for office. And we have done together, an incredible job. And a new poll just came out today Rasmussen, one of the most respected polls, one of the polls that got the election right, so I have to remember that, you know what the number is, 52 percent, with no good news. Explain that. Explain that. Explain that. How do you get that when you don't get good press? I guess 93 percent of the stories are negative. No matter what we do, they figure out a way to make it bad.  Like, I'll give you a quick example. When I came in, North Korea was -- it looks like it was going to war. You know that. It was going to happen, bad things. Now you have no missile launches. You have no rocket testing. You have no nuclear testing. I have a good relationship, maybe even a great relationship. We have tremendous sanctions on North Korea. But we have our hostages back. We have -- remains are coming back. Remains. And our presidents have been dealing with North Korea for many, many decades, many, many decades. And on a nuclear way over the last 20, 30 years and all I hear is, ""Can't you move faster?"" You know what? I left Singapore 15 months ago, they've been negotiating for 85 years or something. So now their complaint is, ""What's taking him so long?"" I heard one of our great geniuses from a previous administration telling me how to negotiate with North Korea when they got taken advantage of like nobody I've ever seen before.  So some day, with all of us, this is all of us -- and those hats are beautiful, by the way -- Someday -- True. Someday they're going to appreciate us all. And I'm going to Vietnam, to Hanoi, in the near future, 27th and 28th of February, to have another summit and hope we -- hopefully we do as well with the second summit as we did with the first. I hope so. Now, we're delighted and I'm delighted to be joined this evening by the Texas leaders. You have great leaders, great people, great help to me -- that are at the forefront of this incredible American Revolution. You know, there's never been anything like this in the history of our country. We have to understand. There's never been. If you would say, as an example, that tonight, 69,000 people signed up to be here. Now, the arena holes 8,000, and thank you fire department, they got in about 10, thank you fire department, appreciate it. But if you want to really see something go outside, tens of thousands of people are watching screens outside. Tens of thousands. And we were all challenged by a young man who lost an election to Ted Cruz.  And then they said, ""You know what? Hey, you're supposed to win in order to run. By the way, we, I, we, I'm one and one, I'm one for one. Think of it. We had one election, we won, now we're going to be 2 for 0 and everything's going to be perfect. But a young man who's got very little going for himself, except he's got a great first name, he has -- he challenged us. So we have, let's say, 35,000 people tonight and he has 200 people, 300 people, not too good. In fact, what I do, what I would do is I would say, ""that may be the end of his presidential bid,"" but he did challenge us. So I want to introduce some great people. Your Governor, Greg Abbott. Greg. Where is he? Where's Greg? Thank you Greg. And a great governor and a great friend of mine. Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick. Thanks Dan. Thank you Dan. Look at him in the corner, so shy. Thank you Dan. Great job, Dan. Attorney General Ken Paxton. Thanks, Ken. And Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller. Thank you, Sid. Thank you, everybody. Thanks, Ken. Great job you do. And we're especially grateful to your wonderful Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz. Great Senators.  And we have a lot of your Congress men and women. We have a lot of them. Are you already? And they're terrific. And they've been with us all the way. Pete Olson. Pete. Thanks, Pete. Thank you, Pete. Michael Burgess. Thanks Michael. John Carter. Brian Babin. And Randy Weber. Thank you very much. We are in the midst of an economic miracle. That's what's happened. You look all over the world and you study and you see what's going on. You can look at China. We have a team right now in China, they want to make a deal very badly. Those tariffs are costing them a lot of money and they're going into our Treasury, remember that, we're filling up with billions of dollars. And did you see the, you know, I haven't been here very long, the trade deficit really went down very big this last month, and people are saying, ""Whoa."" I told you so. That's what I do. That's what I do. And we don't want China to have a hard time. Thank you. Thank you. I -- I can only tell you this, we're going to make great deals on trade. We're going to make great deals on military. When we defend another nation that's rich they have to help us out. Do we agree? They have to help us out. And they're doing it. They're doing it. You saw South Korea, they were paying us $500 million a year. I say you got to do more. You got to give more. Anyway. Now they're up to almost $900 million, that was like a do phone calls. I said -- I said, ""Why didn't they do this before?"" They said, ""Nobody ever asked. Nobody asked."" You pick up almost $500 million a year, nobody asked. We're defending rich countries, they've got to help us out, folks. They've got help us out, sorry. And you know what? They're going like us more and maybe more importantly, they going to respect us. Since the election, we have created 5.3 million new jobs, including more than a half a million new manufacturing jobs. Remember, manufacturing was dead? They said manufacturing was dead, the previous administration. You'll never have it. You need the magic wand. That's what they said. We obviously, we found the magic wand. And by the way, those numbers is small compared to what's happening, compared to all of the companies that are moving in. The unemployment --  Thank you very much. Thank you. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans have reached the lowest level in the history of our country.  Okay, thank you. Thank you. Are you all right? Everything okay? Please. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And women have filled almost 60 percent of the new jobs created last year, which were a record number. We passed massive tax cuts for working families and we canceled a record number of job killing regulations. That's why your oil and gas is coming back. We eliminated the Obamacare individual mandate. And to give critically ill patients access to life saving treatments, we did something that they haven't been able to do for a long time, we passed Right To Try. Right To Try. That's an incredible thing, Right To Try. You know, we have the greatest doctors and research in the world, and if somebody was terminally ill they traveled to Asia, they traveled to Europe, they'd travel all over the world, if they had the money. If they didn't have the money, they'd just go home, there was nothing they could do. And I said, ""Wait a minute. We have drugs in the pipeline that are showing tremendous progress. If somebody is terminally ill let's let them have access to our drugs. Let's let them have access."" And it's much tougher than you would think. But we got it and people, you will not understand, nobody understands, the lifesaving effects, it's incredible what's going on. They are getting better. People are getting better that were thinking they were going to die. It's right to try, I love it. I always wondered why we didn't do it before? Now, the people in Texas won't care much about this, but the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas on Earth. I didn't think you'd care about that. I didn't think Texas would care about that. And listen to this, and Texas oil production is now at the highest level it's ever been. And only for the great oil professionals in the room, we're getting those pipelines approved so fast you'll be able to practically double up on oil production, oil and gas. They're getting approved at record levels and record time, that means more money, more security, and more independence for our country -- it's very simple. Another one they said could never get passed, they've been trying to do it for 40 years, we passed VA Choice, Veterans Choice. So that now, rather than waiting online for five days, for nine days, for three weeks --  Where do these people come from? Where do they come from? They go back home to Mommy. They get punished when they get home.  Now, you really mean finish that Wall, because we've built a lot it, steady and slowly. But before we get to the Wall, so VA Accountability and VA Choice. Accountability, we couldn't fire anybody from the Veterans Administration. We couldn't fire anybody. They could treat our veterans badly. We had to take it. Now, you get rid of them. And VA Choice, they'd wait online for days and weeks, they couldn't see a doctor. Now, they go out, they have a choice. They get a private doctor. They have things taken care of and we pay their bill. They've been trying to get those two things fixed for many, many decades, many years and we got it fixed. We also passed the Farm bill for wonderful farmers, ranchers, and growers. Just got it. We just got it passed and that was it easy but we got it passed. We had to do it. Our farmers are great. So we just get that done, farmers, ranchers, growers. And we passed historic legislation to combat the Opioid Crisis.  Thank you. [Audience Boos, Audience chants hey, hey, hey, goodbye, as an audience member is removed from the coliseum] Thank you. Is there any place that's more fun to be that a Trump rally, is there any place? You know, they all said, ""Mr. President, we loved the tone of your State of the Union speech."" Some people said it was a great speech. Some people said, ""Really a great speech."" I said, ""But if I ever did that in El Paso, Texas, it wouldn't work here too well,"" do you agree? Nice and calm. No, that's not what you're looking for. This is more fun. This is more fun. And we just signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform into law. Nobody thought that was going to be happening. In my address last week, I asked lawmakers in both parties to cross the aisle and join together for the common good for all Americans. Democrats have to stop being so angry. They're angry. And they've got to start being partners to keep this -- really, look, is just an incredible miracle that's going on? We want to keep it going. Keep it going, and it will keep going. It will keep going. There's so much to celebrate in our country, the economy, the military, so many things we've done scientifically. The world is trying to copy what we've done, they're not going to be able to do it. Not anymore. They were catching up fast, now they're going in the wrong direction. Wrong direction. Unfortunately, many of the Democrats in Congress responded to my call for bipartisan cooperation by instead choosing really -- hey, look, did you ever see anything -- radical resistance, it's the radical left. But maybe it'll change.  Maybe it'll change. It all has to do with 2020 and the election. But I really don't like their policy of taking away your car, of taking away your airplane flights, of ""Let's hop a train to California.""  Of you're not allowed to own cows anymore. You know, a lot of problems. A lot of problems. But nobody's ever had this. And by the way with us, we handle it. No president should ever have to go through what we've gone through in the first two years. It's a hoax. It's a disgrace, and it should never be allowed to happen again. A hoax. Just recently, as an example, Senator Richard Burr, from the great State of North Carolina. He's chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and they've been investigating this Russia hoax for two years.  Think of it. They've interviewed over 200 people. They've studied hundreds of thousands of documents and pages and Richard just announced that they found no collusion between Donald Trump and Russia collusion. The fact is, that the real collusion was between Hillary and the Democrats and the other side with Russia, that's where the collusion is. That's where the collusion is.  That's starting to make a lot more sense. But that's where the collusion is, with the Democrats, and with Russia, and with others. And by the way, there's also collusion between the Democrats and the fake news right here.  And they know it better than anybody. Too many Democrats are focused on tearing down their opposition instead of building up our country. They're trying to impose some of the most extreme measures and policies ever put forward by our Congress. And by the way, I don't think anybody in this room wants to pay 70, 80, 90 and 95 percent tax. Does anybody want to pay a 90 percent tax?  You know, you look at what we've done with jobs, what we've done with the economy, how low your taxes are, the lowest they've been almost from the beginning, who the hell wants to change what we're doing now? We are a hot, hot country. Last week they introduced a massive government takeover that would destroy our incredible economic gains. They introduced the so-called Green New Deal.  It sounds like a high school term paper that got a low mark.  It would shut down American energy, which I don't think the people in Texas are going to be happy with that.  It would shut down a little thing called air travel.  How do you take a train to Europe?  You know, this -- this crazy senator from Hawaii, they said, ""Do you like it?"" ""Yes, I like it very much."" Oh, really, how are we getting to Hawaii on a train?  She didn't think about that one but she's thinking about it. She'll figure it out. They want to take away your car, reduce the value of your home, and put millions of Americans out of work, spend $100 trillion, which by the way, there's no such thing as $100 trillion, you have to spend $100 trillion -- And remember this, no other country except us is going to do it. That's a little problem, too. While the world's real polluters, like China, would get many of our companies and factories, they'd just move into China, move into other parts of the world. That's the way the system works. It's not going to happen folks. Don't worry, it's not going to happen. Not going to happen. $100 trillion. Let's spend $100 trillion. Let's rip down every building in New York City and rebuild it environmentally slightly better. To pave the way for socialism, Democrats are calling for massive tax hikes and the complete elimination of private health care. Many of us have private health care. That means you can stand on line for five days as you wait for a doctor that is not nearly as talented as your doctor. Remember? ""You can keep your doctor."" Remember that? 28 times, ""You can keep it."" That didn't happen. It turned out to be alive. Hey, where are the fact checkers? You know, some of the most dishonest people in media are the so-called fact checkers. 28 times, ""You can keep your doctor."" That didn't turn out to be what he said. They're coming for your money and they're coming for your freedom and it'll never happen and it won't even come close, folks. Democrats are also pushing extreme late-term abortion.  Allowing children to be ripped from their mother's womb right up until the moment of birth. What's that all about? So in Virginia, the governor, he's got a little publicity lately.  I like it. It keeps us out of the papers. I like it. I'd like to find a few more guys like this one. He almost moon walked. His wife stopped him, ""Darling, that would be inappropriate."" I want to see somebody trying to imitate Michael Jackson in the moonwalk. This would not have been a good scene. His wife saved him, darling, this would be inappropriate."" I think she was right. But the governor stated that he would even allow a newborn baby to come out into the world and wrap the baby and make the baby comfortable. And then talk to the mother and talk to the father and then execute the baby. Execute the baby.  Incredible. Millions of innocent, beautiful babies are counting on us to protect them and we will. That is why last week I go I called on Congress, with your great congressman over there -- thank you, fellas -- to immediately pass legislation prohibiting extreme late-term abortion. And that certainly is extreme. Many people never even heard of it. I mean, have you ever even hear of anything like this?  Democrats must also address the double standard on full display in Virginia. By the way, that state's going to go Republican pretty soon, I'm pretty sure -- because the Democrat Party has never been more outside of the mainstream. They're becoming the party of socialism, late-term abortion, open borders, and crime.  This weekend, some Democrats even proposed a measure that would force the release of thousands of criminal illegal aliens --  -- including dangerous felons convicted of rape, sex trafficking, violent assault, and even murder, into our country. Can you believe this?  Their proposal would put a hard cap on the number of illegal aliens that are brave ICE officers, we love our ICE officers -- can detain and thus remove, forcing thousands of criminals to be set free into United States communities. I don't think so. Okay. I don't think so. And I want to thank our ICE offices. What they put up is incredible and that includes Border Patrol and that includes law enforcement. Let's face it. Law enforcement, we love them. They keep us safe. In the last two years alone, ICE officers have made 200, listen to these numbers, 266,000 arrests of criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of approximately 100,000 assaults, 40,000, 40,000 larcenies 30,000 sex crimes, 25,000 burglaries, 12,000 vehicle thefts, 11,000 robberies, 4,000 kidnappings, and 4,000 murders.  -- murders, murders, killings, murders.  We will. We will. If we cut detention space, we are cutting loose dangerous criminals into our country. Slashing ICE tension is the first step of many for the far left, I call them the radical left We will never abolish ICE. They want to abolish ICE. We're never going to abolish ICE. So let me say very clearly to those pushing this ridiculous and radical agenda, I will never sign a bill that forces the mass release of violent criminals into our country. And I will never abolish or in any way mistreat our great heroes from ICE, and Border Patrol, and law enforcement, never. We will always stand with those brave men and women. We will always be with them. We're going to take care of them just like they take care of us, remember that. Now, I have to tell you, as I was walking up to the stage they said that progress is being made with this committee. Just so you know, we're building the Wall anyway. They say that progress has been made, interesting. Just now. Just now. I said, ""Wait a minute. I got to take care of my people from Texas. I got to go. I don't even want to hear about it."" I don't want to hear it. So I don't know what they mean ""progress is being made significant"". Now, what did happen is the Democrats were being hit really hard on the concept of releasing criminals into our society, that has not been playing well. So maybe progress is being made, maybe not. But I had a choice, I could have stayed out there and listened or I could have come out to the people of El Paso in Texas. I chose you. I chose you. So -- so we probably have some good news. But who knows? Who knows? We'll -- we're -- we're setting the stage folks. You know what it's called, right? It's called with setting the stage. We're setting the table. We're doing whatever we have to do the walls being built, it'll continue. It's going at a rapid pace. The Rio Grande, it's happening, go check it out. We proudly welcome those who come lawfully, and support our values in the United States, and that want to strengthen our society and help us with all of the companies moving into the United States, moving back, they left us now they're moving back, many of them, in some cases, maybe all of them, but they all want to come back because the United States is where the action is, very simple.  It's where the action is. And it is -- we're most proud of the fact, you look at the car companies, they're moving back. They're going into Michigan. They're going into Pennsylvania. They're going back to Ohio. So many companies are coming back. And by the way, that's why I want people to come into our country but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit. Through merit, so they can help us build our country. Make America Great Again, pretty soon we're going to be saying, Keep America Great, Keep America Great. Pretty soon. Pretty soon, congressman, Keep America Great. We'll have to switch over. Tell me, tell me, the campaign's sort of started because you have these people that nobody ever heard of, they're all running for office. I said, ""Who is that?"" ""Well, that person was a mayor of a city that was defeated."" Well, how about Beto, Beto was defeated to, right?  But he suffered a great defeat. Watch what the news does tomorrow, though, they won't mention the disparity. They won't mention the disparity tomorrow. They'll say, ""Beto O'Rourke,"" That's his last name, right, O'Rourke? Beta O'Rourke had a wonderful rally of about 15 people.  No, when they get honest, when the media starts becoming honest, and maybe they will, because we've done something that's never been done before, we have suffered a totally dishonest media and we've won and it's driving them crazy. It's driving them crazy. It's driving them crazy but look at them, they still come. I've never said anything like it. But illegal immigration hurts all Americans, including millions of legal immigrants, by driving down wages, draining public resources, and claiming countless innocent lives. You see what's going on, folks. You know what's going on. They give you all of these phony stats they say, ""Oh, it's the same. It's the same."" It's not the same. It's a bad situation going on and we've stopped it. We are taking out thousands and thousands of people from MS-13, we're bringing them to hell out of our country, thousands. But if we had proper border security, including a very powerful wall, we wouldn't have to work so hard and it would be a lot safer and a lot better. My Administration is committed to ending illegal immigration, while modernizing our legal immigration system, which has been in terrible shape for many, many decades to prioritize the admission of those who can support themselves for them actually and contribute to our economy, people that come in on merit, merit, merit -- instead of random lotteries and chain migration. Chain migration, that's another beauty.  We want a merit based system for entry, this will improve living conditions for all Americans living here today, both immigrant and U.S. born, everybody's going to be happy. And we need the people to take care of these companies that are moving. Our unemployment rate, real unemployment, 3.6, 3.7 -- and going down, had a little blip because of a thing called the shutdown. But remember, it went up to 4.0. I said, ""Boy, that's -- "" Do you know how low 4.0 is? Do you know anybody else, any other president that would have said, ""Please give me 4.0, please?""  We had a little blip, it went up from 3.7 to 4.0, just quickly. But you know what? If we didn't do that shutdown we would not have been able to show this country these politicians, the world, what the hell is happening with the border. That was a very important thing we did. And the fact is, illegal immigration is a heartbreaking human tragedy. One in three women is sexually assaulted on the very long and dangerous journey north up to our country. Sex traffickers, these are the worst human beings on Earth, exploit our porous border to sell young girls and women into modern day slavery. You wouldn't even know that, nobody knows that. And by the way, do you think they come in through the ports of entry?  I listen to the Democrats, let me nice, just say the Democrats, I won't be specific, and they say, ""Oh, everything comes through the port."" They don't do that. They drive out where there's no barrier, no wall, they make a left. Congratulations, you're in the United States. That's all. If you have three women tied up in the backseat of a car, you're not going through, folks, a port of entry where they do look in the backseat, at least, right? Drugs pouring through the border kills tens of thousands of innocent Americans a year, including heroin, meth, cocaine, fentanyl, and so many others. They come through the Southern border. We have a drug problem over the last 6, 7, 10 years like we have never had before. We can have such a big cut in the numbers, in the percentages, if we get the Wall built -- if we have a strong Wall with other things, but we need the Wall and it has to be built and we want to build it fast. The number of illegal immigrants crossing our borders is so large that we've know where to hold them. We have to build -- they want buildings, they want jails. They want, these people, how about the word caravan?  Caravan, I think that was one of mine, but it looked like a caravan. Where you have thousands and thousands of people coming from Guatemala, from Honduras, and El Salvador, and they march up through Mexico. And by the way, if we didn't have walls in those areas, in some cases that we put up, in many cases where we reinforced, in many cases where our great military helped us with barbed wire -- you would have people pouring in. They don't pour in. The problem is our laws are so bad that there's no way we can quickly remove them. Other countries say, ""Get out of here."" We have to bring them through a court system. We sign their names, they touch our land, we sign them up, we explained to them, ""Please come back in six years for court,"" and only the dumbest people show back up. Nobody ever shows up. Nobody comes back in, like 2 percent. They go in to our country. The good news is we have great law enforcement and many of these people, we know where they are, and we're going to get them the hell out. But we have to change our laws. So right now we have a backlog. You won't even believe this. Other countries don't do this. Somebody walks into our country, we bring them to court, we have now a legal -- we need Perry Mason --  -- we have a legal case. Nobody else does that. Other countries say, ""Get out. You can't come in. You're not a citizen of whatever country."" We bring them in. So listen to this, right now we have almost 900,000 cases, 900,000. How many judges are going to take care of -- we're going to have to hire tens of thousands of judges to do that, 900,000 cases. How stupid is this? This was a system put in place by really dumb people or people that did not have the best interests of our country at heart. And there's no place better to talk about border security, whether they like it or not, because I've been hearing a lot of things,"" Oh, the Wall didn't make that much of a difference."" You know where it made a big difference? Right here in El Paso. And I've been watching where they've been trying to say, ""Oh, the Wall didn't make that much -- "" Well you take a look at what they did with their past crimes and how they made them from very serious to a much lesser, you take a look at what the real system is. I spoke to people that have been here a long time they said, ""When that wall went up, it's a whole different ball game."" Is that a correct statement? A whole different ball game. I'll give you another example. And I don't care whether a mayor is a Republican or a Democrat, they're full of crap when they say it has it made a big difference. I heard the same thing from the fake news. They said, ""Oh, crime actually stayed the same."" It didn't say the same, it went way down and look at what they did to their past crimes and look at how they recorded those past crimes, it went way, way down. These people, you know, you'd think did want to get to the bottom of a problem and solve a problem, not try and pull the wool over everybody's eyes. So for those few people that are out there on television saying, ""Oh, it didn't make too much of a difference,"" it made a -- people from El Paso, am I right? It's fake news. It's fake. I'm telling you, just fake news. And you know what? You wouldn't even have to know you can say that automatically without even knowing it. It's obvious, it's common sense. Just a few thousand feet, as an example, from where we stand right now on the other side of the border, it's one of the most dangerous cities in the world, Juarez, Mexico. Well, the people at Juarez agree. Yet, thanks to a powerful border wall and El Paso, Texas it's one of America's safest cities now. Now, listen to the this, so you're talking a few feet away, right, a few feet, got a wall, a few feet away. Last year Juarez had 1,200 murders, El Paso, right next door, a few feet away, had 23 murders. That's not good either. But 23 compared to 1,200. Walls work, actually there's nothing like them for what we're talking about. We want to stop drugs. We want to stop traffickers. We want to stop criminals from coming in, walls save lives. Walls save tremendous numbers of lives. The biggest proponents of open borders are rich liberals and wealthy donors. These are hypocrites who oppose security for you while living their entire lives -- I do it too, to be honest with you, I'm guilty. I'm guilty. I also live behind walls, okay. They live behind walls and gates in their guards all over the place. Me too, because I want to be safe and I want to make America safe, if you don't mind.  So security should not belong only to the ric"
"Thank you, Mississippi. It's great to be here. Great, great victories in Mississippi. We really did. We had great victories in Mississippi as you know very well. They weren't even close. By the way, tomorrow if you don't mind make it not even close too. Well I am thrilled to be back in Tupelo. I love Tupelo. Home of thousands of hard working American patriots and the proud birthplace of ""The King of Rock and Roll"" Elvis. Elvis. We love Elvis. I -- I shouldn't say this. You'll say I'm very conceited because I'm not. But other than the blonde hair when I was growing up, they said I looked like Elvis. Do you see that? Do you believe it? I always consider that a great compliment. We love Elvis. Don't we? In fact, we just gave Elvis the Medal of Freedom Award at the White House. Tomorrow the voters of this state will cast their ballots in one of the most important Senate elections of your lives, of all of our lives. It's very important because we've done great and now we're going to even a little bit better by adding an extra vote on. And as you know the fake news back there didn't like to talk to much about the Senate. They didn't like to talk too much about the Senate. They talked about the House where I couldn't campaign too much. How many of these can I do? We worked on the Senators and that looks like if we win tomorrow, Cindy is so important. So respected. We've got to send her back. But if we win tomorrow, we'll be at 53-47 which is substantially more than we had -- But they don't like to talk about the new great governor of Georgia that we got in. Remember? President Obama went there. Michelle went there. Oprah went there. They all went there. And then Trump went there all by himself and we won. Isn't that something? And the great new governor of Ohio and the governor of Florida and the Senator from Florida and a lot of things we won that a lot of people aren't talking about. Tennessee. Right? Missouri, that was a good one. They said, you couldn't get Claire out of there. We got her out of there. We got her out of there. They don't want to talk about any of that. And actually for the House people that we did work for, if you look, we went to Kentucky, great guy Andy Barr. We got him in and a lot of great races. We had a -- we really did a good job but I can only make so many stops and today I'm making three of them in Mississippi. Can you believe that? But you know what Tupelo? You're the first one. OK. Don't tell anybody. Don't tell anybody because we'll get in trouble but you're the first one. So I appreciate you all -- this is a big crowd. I wish the press was a little bit back further. Look what's back there. Media, look all behind you. Media. Hello folks. My guys could have set it up a little bit better. You know, honestly, they do have these great cameras with the magnifying on them. I mean, if they were back a little further we would have all the people over here instead of back in the corners. Can you remember that next time folks? Maybe, my people -- my people. Sometimes my people let me down. That happens a little bit, you know. But for the most part, I'll tell you what. We are doing great. This election's about jobs and judges, borders and protecting the blessings of freedom and prosperity for our children. This is what it's about. It's about getting a great new Senator that's also what it's about. She's been there for a little while and in that little while everybody really respects her. Really likes her and she loves you. That I can tell you. She really does. Special woman. It's about preserving a strong military, a safe community and a soaring economy. We're doing great. I'm here to ask the people of Mississippi to send Cindy Hyde-Smith back to the United States Senate. So we can make America great again. We can make it great for all Americans. It's all Americans. Your vote on Tuesday will decide whether we build on our extraordinary achievements or whether we empower the radical Democrats to obstruct our progress, reverse our gains and return to the failures of the past. For years you watched as powerful forces in Washington shipped away your jobs. You saw that. You saw that. That's changing. You see what's coming in. So many companies coming in to Mississippi and everyplace else by the way. They sacrifice your security. You notice our -- hey by the way, excuse me. Are we doing OK on the border folks? Not going to have it. You've got to come into our country legally.  You're right. You're right. And we have a lot of it built and it's going up but I'll tell you that other, the rest of it. You say that's pretty nasty looking wires now huh? Pretty nasty. But we're doing well. We're not letting people into our country unless they come in legally and we want people to come in through merit. We have great companies coming into our country. We need workers. We want them to come in but they have to be talented people that can love our country. They have to come in through merit. Through merit. Not through lottery. Not where we picked them out of a basket. Right? When the government puts them -- and you think the government's putting their finest in there? I don't know. History would say they probably aren't. They're not putting Elvis in there right? If we're not going to find Elvis. Under my Administration we are living by a new policy. It's a very simple two words. It's called America first. That's what we're all about now. Republicans have unleashed the greatest economic comeback in American history. It's true. We're doing even better than you would understand. Everybody's negotiating to come back in and by the way and we're negotiating great trade deals in the opposite way. Because we have had the worst trade deal and the worst trade deals of any country probably ever. The dumbest deals, the worst, but they're really good now. And they're getting good. And you know, the end of the week I meet with China. I meet with a lot of other countries that have not treated us too well but we're doing extremely well. Hello back there. Oh I'm so -- I feel so guilty you're so far back. They just don't learn. This happened to me in Georgia. The press had such a good site and the people are so far back there. Is there anyway we can let those people come along here? Because if you can, let them. OK. What do you think? Yes? Yes? I wish the media would show this crowd. They never do. Look over there. Look, it's incredible. I wish the media would show this crowd. Watch. If I say spin the cameras, they'll never spin the cameras. They don't want the people to know how many people are here. They never do and that's OK. You know what you do? You can tell. You can tell -- you can tell by the sound. Because you can't imitate thousands and thousands of people. That's right. She just said, the First Lady tells me about the sound. More Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our country. Think of that. Today, more Americans are working by a lot. We've created 4.5 million new jobs and we have lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. The unemployment rate just hit the lowest level in more than 50 years. And soon will break the record, we hope. Here in Mississippi the unemployment rate has reached it's all time low in history. Thank you. Well you do have a great governor, you know that. You have a great governor. Who's here I think? He better be here, right? Where's -- where is he? Here, OK. Good. Boy, I would -- I'm going to introduce you to . But he is one hell of a governor and he loves his state. Last month alone, 10 states hit their lowest unemployment rates in the history of our country. Nationwide, African-American unemployment has reached its lowest rate ever recorded. African-American youth unemployment has reached an all time historic low. The African-American poverty rate has reached the lowest level ever recorded. This is under Republicans folks. Please remember the home of Abraham Lincoln. The Republican party. Under Republican leadership America's booming, America's thriving and America is winning again, winning like never before. We're respected again. We're respected again as a nation. On election day, we made history by expanding our Senate GOP majority. You never hear that. We have a great, great -- oh please vote tomorrow. You know. You're going to have -- you've got an election tomorrow. It's going to be, I think, a very big day for Cindy and for the Republican party and for the country. Got to get out and vote. Don't take any chance. A lot of people think we're going to have a big win. Don't take any chances. That's happened many times before. Gee, we don't have to vote tomorrow. Right Phil? We know all about it. We don't have to vote tomorrow. That never works out well when you have that. Just assume you have to vote. You have to get out there or send out your ballots or do whatever you have to do. But just get them done. We cannot allow Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer -- to erode that victory by winning the great state of Mississippi. That's not possible. Is that possible? I don't think so. No, this Senate seat is for a very, very special woman who's going to do a special job and she votes for us. And she votes for Make America Great Again and she votes for America First. The platform of today's Democrat party is radical socialism and open borders. I don't think we like open borders. You know when you look at the news at night and you see what's happening at the border and you know for many years this has been flowing in. Now, people are coming up here because our economy's doing great and all. But for many years, this is what's been happening -- they just walk -- came right through but they're not coming through anymore. Unless they come through legally. If you want more jobs and less crime, than you have to vote Republican. We are honored to be joined today by several, incredible Mississippi Republican leaders and -- and this one is really a friend of mine for a long time. He just finished the African-American Museum and we went through it a few months ago when it was opening. And he was so proud of it and just the people, everybody loves this guy. He's a special guy, special man, Governor Phil Bryant. So -- Come here Phil. Come here. Come here Phil. Special man. A Congressman, great General, tough guy. Always been on our side, you know what I'm talking about and Congressman Trent Kelly. Trent. Trent. Love your state. A man who's become very, very -- I mean, just incredible. Every time there's difficulty in his way, that quiet killer way of his, he always wins, Senator Roger Wicker. Roger. He always wins. And he's a great guy. And I brought a star along and  became an even bigger star during that horrible situation with Brett Kavanaugh. He gave probably 100 words and they'll go -- I mean they're going to be playing those words for a long time. And they were very special, they meant a lot because this was a man who Brett Kavanaugh was extraordinary and he was beaten up so badly and so unfairly by the Democrats. But we got through it. There were a lot of lies. There were a lot of lies. A number of people have already recanted their stories, never happened. You know that. Right? Never happened but this man said, some brilliant and some beautiful and warm, from the heart words that really helped us get a great Supreme Court Justice. Senator Lindsey Graham. He's here. Where is he? Come. Come. Come here. Come here. Come here. He's become my friend actually. He's become my friend. So he can never duplicate what he did but he'll probably do a lousy job when I say, say a few words. But you know what? He really did. He did a special job and he's -- he's just a great guy. Lindsey, say a few words. Are you ready to vote? When Kavanaugh needed your Senator, she was there. I want you to remember what they will do on the other side. I want you to show up Tuesday. We're going to start over in 2019 and if you like Kavanaugh there's more coming. Mr. President, you've done a hell of a job. Keep it up. Let's win tomorrow. Thank you, Lindsey. Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you, Lindsey. So we're here tonight to support a truly incredible leader, a tireless champion for all of the people of Mississippi. And if I could, I'd like to have her just come up for a few seconds and say a few words, then we're going to make a trip. We're going to do two other stops. So we're going to have a little fun in Mississippi. You know -- I said, I don't need my coat. What do I need a coat? I'm going to Mississippi. I'm glad I -- I'm glad I -- what's going on with this weather today here? Huh? What's going on? So, I'm going to ask Cindy to come up and she's great on tax cuts, tough on the border. She loves our military. She loves our vets and she always supports our tremendous judicial nominees. And I will tell you -- Cindy come on up Cindy. She stood up to the Democrats . And she voted yes on Brett Kavanaugh, so important. Cindy, please, say a few words. Thank you very much. Thank you Mr. President. I tell you, it is great to have the President of the United States right here in Mississippi. And what a great crowd he has. What a great crowd you've been. Thank you for coming out. You know, I said early on. This campaign is not about me, it's about you. It's about the people of Mississippi and what you believe in. Lower taxes, less government, less regulations. Supporting our veterans. Supporting our military. Supporting our law enforcement. Standing up for pro-life issues. Yes. It is about defending the 2nd Amendment rights, every single day. You know, I think I've given you one big reason but I can ask for your vote tonight because I've worked very, very hard for you. I have stood up for you and you know I will continue to stand up for the conservative values of Mississippi. You know, I am honored to have President Trump's endorsement. I'm honored to have Governor Phil Bryant's endorsement. But the endorsement that is most important to me is your vote tomorrow. You're endorsement. Please tell all of your friends, your co-workers, your family, everyone you know. Send a text to everybody in your phone. Let them go vote tomorrow. Remind them to go vote tomorrow because I will stand for your conservative values and that is what's on the ballot tomorrow. I'm so honored to serve as your U.S. Senator and I am asking all Mississippians to give me your vote tomorrow so I can continue serving your United States Senate to protect our conservative values. Thank you very much. Wow.  Thank you very much, Cindy. That was a great job. That was a great job by the way. Cindy's far-left opponent, he's far-left. Oh, he's out there. How does he fit in with Mississippi? Just explain -- and I could go over those. But how does he fit in? My guess he opposed Justice Kavanaugh. Espy will vote in total lockstep with Schumer, Pelosi, the legendary Maxine Waters and the special interest bank rolling his campaign. Espy supported one of the largest tax increases in American history. You know that. He co-sponsored legislation that provides late term abortion on demand. You know that. He backed a total government takeover of healthcare and he even sponsored legislation to provide free taxpayer funded healthcare to illegal aliens. Which I'm sure you love paying for that. Mike Espy would rather protect illegal aliens than the people that live in Mississippi and Mississippi workers. It just can't work that way. You know, we want to be nice and we all have a big heart. But it can't work that way because it doesn't work. No matter where you go in the world, that doesn't work. We don't need to give Schumer another vote to block our judges and abolish our borders and stall our wonderful nominees. We have great nominees. We have to get them through. Cindy will be with every single one of them. These are the top people. Judicial people and other people. Anywhere in this country, anywhere in the world as far as I'm concerned. Also at stake in tomorrow's election is your Medicare benefits. Democrats want to raid the Medicare to fund socialism. What -- it's very simple what's going on. I do really want to run against a true socialist because I can't believe that's what this country wants. But let's see what happens. It's going to be a very interesting fight. Republicans want to protect Medicare for their great seniors who have earned it and by the way who have paid for it. You know that. And Republicans will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. Democrats will also destroy your healthcare by inviting millions upon millions of aliens to violate our borders. Once they arrive, they want to sign them up for free healthcare, free welfare, free education and the right to vote. You know talking about the fake media. I was doing that speech recently and I said and each one of them gets a free Rolls Royce. And so the media, one of the particular groups, you know. They said, he said they get a Rolls Royce but they don't get a Rolls Royce. They said that. They don't get a Rolls Royce. They said he gets a Pinocchio for that. They said he gets . You hear that. I said Rolls Royce and they said, no he doesn't. They got me Phil. They got me. Democrats have become the party of caravans and crime. True. Because when you have open borders, you have crime. When you have sanctuary cities, you have crime. Republicans are committed to halting this incursion and defending the sovereign territory of the United States of America. We're very proud of it. We will not tolerate any form of assault or attack upon our border agents like happened yesterday. Or any attempt to destroy Federal property, overrun Federal authorities, or bring chaos and violence to American soil. And if you look at what's happening along the border, you see what's happening. The Mayor of Tijuana, he said these are tough people. These people fight when you talk to them. These are tough people. We don't want those people in Mississippi. I'm sorry. Of course, I know you'd win the fight but who needs it. Right? Who needs it. Who needs it. Last year alone our brave border patrol and ICE agents seized nearly 1 million pounds of illegal narcotics and they don't want to have ICE. Since I took the oath of office, ICE agents have arrested over 235,000 aliens with criminal records, including those charged or convicted of more than 100,000 assaults and nearly 4,000 killings. Think of that. 4,000 killings and they want to abolish ICE. No thank you. And by the way, the ICE folks, they're tough and they're smart and they're great and they love our country. Just remember that. One in five Federal prisoners is a non-citizen. You don't hear that ever. Illegal immigration is also deeply unfair to American workers including African-American workers. My Administration will always protect Mississippi workers from unfair and illegal competition. A nation's first duty is to take care of its own citizens. After years of defending our borders, and you look at doing all of this, we defend all sorts of borders. We defend our borders just a little bit but now we defend our borders very strongly. We defend the borders of other nations but we don't defend our borders properly but that's all changed since we got elected. We've done a good job. We're sending a clear message to the caravans and to the trespassers. Turn around. Go back home. Do you ever notice they say they're coming up? And they want protection because they're country is such a bad place. But they're waving the flags of their countries as they're walking up. I don't know somehow that doesn't work. Right? Doesn't work. They're waving the flags proudly of their countries but they want to get out of their country because it's so bad. Democrats even support the sanctuary cities that unleash known criminals and gang members onto our streets. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law abiding citizens not criminal aliens. We want to end sanctuary cities. And we've actually started big sections of the wall but we want to finish the wall. We've got to get funding from Congress and if this isn't the right time to get funding when you look at what's happening at the border. They're never be a right time so we're going very strongly for funding for the wall. And Lindsey and everybody it just, I mean, your great Congressman by the way is one of the leaders of that. Thank you very much General. Thank you. Funding. Tomorrow's election is about safety and it's about jobs. The state of Mississippi lost over 40 percent of all manufacturing jobs following the disasters of NAFTA. One of the great disasters of all time in terms of trade and China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. They were flat lining and they joined the World Trade Organization which was actually meant for them, to take advantage of us and they went like a rocket ship. And it became the China of today but today we're doing much better than China. Since they joined the WTO, we've racked up $4.5 trillion in trade deficits with China. That's for the years that they've joined, $4.5 trillion, not billion, not million, trillion. You know what that is? Nobody even knows what -- how many zeros in a trillion? So many you don't have time to write them. Year end that's all going to change. Year after year, politicians who ran for office promising to fix our horrible trade deals and I took it on. And that's right, when they charge us a tariff, we charge them a tariff now. OK? And we're going to be introducing legislation on that very subject. When we charge them, you can call it a mirror tax. You can call it whatever but isn't it crazy that China and other countries, China's the biggest but other countries. We make a car, send it to China. There's a 25 percent tax. They make a car, send it to us there's almost no tax. OK? Other than that, it's a very fair deal. Then they get elected, these politicians and they do nothing other than let other countries continue to rip us of. And I don't blame other countries. I don't blame China. I don't blame Japan. I don't blame South Korea who we protect and we still lose a fortune on trade. I don't blame these other countries. I blame our past leadership for allowing these other countries to get away with it. So I'm not like other politicians. I can't even believe I'm calling myself a politician but I guess that's what I am. Hey look. I went and look -- look -- I guess -- am I a politician? I don't know. All I know is this. I ran one time and I won. One time. One time.  Thank you. Thank you. You know what the new slogan is, so it's Make America Great Again. Right? New slogan is Keep America Great. But don't tell anybody. OK? We don't want somebody stealing that slogan. It would be hard for somebody else. Actually I guess I'd like the opponents to steal that slogan. Right? Now we're replacing the horrible job killing NAFTA with a brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement which is a good deal for us, a really good deal. Countries in -- you know, you take a look at the countries that were stealing. You look at what went on in Mexico where our car manufacturers went down there. Make 25 percent of our cars now in Mexico. All of that's not going to happen anymore. They're not going to be leaving our country. We're going to make it very difficult under this agreement and that's fine. And I let it be known right at the beginning we have to have that. The USMCA like YMCA. The song, YMCA. Y -M -C-A. The USMCA is a tremendous victory for Mississippi farmers. We love our farmers, manufacturers and auto workers. And by the way, speaking of farmers and small business owners, you know in our tax cuts we passed the largest tax cuts in history. And we have great provisions there like ANWAR, the great oil site in Alaska. Right? They've been trying to get it for 40 years. But you know what's great for our farmers and small business, the estate tax, the death tax. If you love your children, you'd like to leave your estate, your farm, your small business, whatever it may be. You'd like to leave it to your children. Right? Without being tax where they have to go out and borrow to the hilt. Well guess what? You have no more estate tax to pay. You have no more death tax to pay. OK? You have no more death tax to pay. So if you like your children, it's great. If you don't like your children, don't leave it to them and therefore the tax -- don't even think about it. Didn't help you very much. Who here does not like their children? Anybody? I don't see one hand. There's nobody? There's got to be somebody. Back there. See in the very back corner, look. No, it's a great thing. That's something that we get that we don't talk about much but that's a big thing. People leave their farms and other things to their children. Their children have to pay the taxes. The taxes are staggering. They go out and they borrow money and they're in debt and a lot of times it didn't work out. You don't have tax to pay anymore. You have nothing to pay on those farms and small businesses. Under my Administration, we've created half a million brand new manufacturing jobs. Remember we weren't going to be able to create any. Because under the previous administration, they said manufacturing's never coming back. It's gone. You'd need a magic wand. Well we found the magic wand and that's actually -- - - that's actually going to be increasing by a lot in the next short while because we have a lot of companies moving in. We've also taken the toughest ever action against the abusive trade practices of many other countries. They were abusive. They were -- nobody did anything about it. I mean, they either didn't have a clue or they didn't care. America is respected again. We are respected again. It's a whole different ballgame. We've taken bold action to reduce the cost of health insurance for the first time in years. Healthcare premiums are coming down. Just remember that. We've worked hard on that. Secretary Azar has done a fantastic job. And right here in Mississippi, we've opened up new affordable alternative plans that are up to 56 percent cheaper than the disaster known as Obamacare. And to help critically ill patients get life saving treatments, we passed Right To Try. Do you know what that is? It's a -- hopefully nobody needs it. But people who are terminally ill, we have the greatest medicines, the greatest doctors in the world. And we have a pipeline but it takes years to get approved. We've cut it in half. We're going to be cutting it again in half. But it used to take 15 years, now it's way down but it's still years and they have some cures that really look good. I mean, they look like they're going to work out. If a patient is terminally ill, you're now going to be able to have access to those potential cures, which is great. Through that medicine. Previous to four months ago when I signed it, it wasn't -- if you had people -- if they had enough money they'd go to all parts of the world. They were looking for hope all over the world. They'd go to Europe. They'd go to South America. They go to Asia. Now, they sign a piece of paper. They immediately get taken care of and by the way Phil, we've had some incredible results already. So we're had some incredible results. We passed Veteran's Choice for our veterans. 44 years they've been trying to pass it. So now it gives you the right to see your private doctor or a private doctor immediately. If you're standing in line for 10 days or two weeks or six weeks, you have no idea. The numbers are horrible. And now if you have to wait, you go out and you see a private doctor down the road, down the street, across the street and you get taken care of immediately. No more waiting in line for -- I mean numbers of days and weeks. It's hard to believe. People would stand in line and they're OK, not bad. And they have to wait so long they've been literally terminally ill by the time they got doctor's care. Now you go outside. You get a doctor and we pay for it. And it's a great thing. Another is the landmark VA Accountability Law, over 40 years they've been trying to get this and we got it done. That's where people that abuse our great veterans in the hospitals and they were people that were sickos. They do it. We look at them and we say get out of here. You're fired. Get out and worse. We secured through the help of Lindsey Graham and everybody. Roger, we secured $700 billion and $716 billion to fully rebuild our great United States military and we gave our great warriors their largest pay raise in more than a decade. And of my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the 6th branch of the American Armed Forces. It's called the Space Force. And today -- today we just landed on Mars. Did you hear that? We just landed. They were celebrating at NASA. We have reawakened NASA and that's a good thing. And we're also letting rich private guys, I don't know a lot of people -- a lot of the rich guys like rockets. So we charge them rent. Go ahead, build all the rockets you want. That's good for us. Just make sure you have an American flag on the rocket. So I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran Nuclear catastrophe deal. And we have just recently recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. President's for years, many, many decades have been saying they were going to do it. They never did it. And I understand why, it's not easy to do but we got it done. In fact, we just opened up the embassy if you can believe that. It's probably about 20 years ahead of schedule. Together we've made unbelievable progress and we are just getting started. But we need every last Republican vote in the U.S. Senate. Only with a solid Senate GOP majority can we defend your tax cuts and defend your regulation cuts and your 2nd Amendment. Which by the way is under siege, in case you haven't noticed. Protect your Medicare and Social Security. Confirm your great judicial nominees and save our courts with incredible pro-Constitution judges. We will fight every day to secure the border, to stop illegal immigration, to pass Kate's Law. End sanctuary cities. End chain migration. Cancel the visa lottery and keep the criminals and drug dealers and terrorists the hell out of our country. And we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work. Dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity. For years you watched as your leaders apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America, who loves your country. We all love our country. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for Mississippi and we are proudly standing up for our great National Anthem. So I am asking every citizen from every party, community, background, race, color, religion and creed for the honor of your support. I need you to get your family. Get your friends. Get your neighbors. Get your co-workers and get out tomorrow and vote for Cindy Hyde-Smith. Ours is the greatest political movement, can you believe this, where we started three years ago in political , in political history, in history. We've never had a movement like this. Look at this crowd today. I mean, in theory, they should be considered a little bit of an off election and here we are. I don't know how many thousands of people this is but it's a lot of people and we have a massive crowd. We're going over to Gulfport and we have a massive crowd there. It's the same thing. This is a movement like this country has never seen before. This is a movement like almost no country has ever seen and we have a lot of bad people. We have a lot of phony stuff like the Russian witch hunt garbage. We have a lot of -- we have a lot of things going on and there's never been a movement like this. Because it's about the people. It's about what we are doing and what we've done. It's about delivering safety and opportunity for every family. It's about building a brighter future for every man, woman and child all across our magnificent land. And it's about coming together as one proud American family. We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who built the highways, linked the railroads, dugout the Panama Canal. Won two World Wars, put satellites into space, landed on Mars today. And landed an American astronaut on the face of the moon. Our ancestors defeated fascism. Vanquished communism. Delivered millions into freedom and built the greatest and most powerful military in the history of the world. And our military, very shortly, will be much more powerful"
"Wow, this is great. Look, snow. I didn't know what was going on. This is -- I said, you sure this is indoor? That beautiful snow looks so real. That's the end of my suit. That's the end of the hair for tonight. That's OK. I love Mississippi, and I love being with you in Mississippi. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. It's a beautiful place. This is a big -- this is a big, beautiful arena, and they have thousands of people outside, and this place is packed. There's nothing like a Trump rally. Do we agree? Nothing like a Trump rally. I'm thrilled to be here with the great people of Mississippi. You are the men and women that make America truly great, and thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Tomorrow we need the people of Mississippi to go to the polls and elect Cindy Hyde-Smith so that we can continue doing what we're doing, which is, frankly, unprecedented. What's happening is unprenticed. Look, what's the simple two words? It's called America first. America first. It's about time. It's about time. Under Republican leadership, America is winning again, America is respected again. We are respected like at no time before. And I can tell you, I'm meeting constantly with foreign leaders, and they walk in, and they say, Mr. President, it's incredible what's happened with your country in such a short period of time. America is respected again. We've unleashed the greatest economic comeback in American history. More Americans are working today than ever before. Think of that. Today, right now, more Americans are working in our country than at any time before. So that's a big thing. That's a big thing. We've created 4.5 million new jobs, and we've lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. The unemployment rate just hit the lowest level in more than 50 years. And here in Mississippi, the unemployment rate has hit its lowest level of all time. Congratulations, Mississippi. African-American unemployment has reached the lowest rate ever recorded. African-American youth unemployment has reached the lowest rate ever recorded. And African-American poverty is at an all-time low. Remember what I used to say, what the hell do you have to lose, right? Well, we produced. And we're going to continue to produce. Republicans passed a massive tax cut for Mississippi families. We eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations. And America is now the number-one producer of energy on the planet Earth. Not even close. And that took place pretty quickly, didn't it? We are taking care of our veterans, and our military will soon be more powerful than it has ever been before. And because of that incredible power, hopefully we will never have to use it, right? But to protect these amazing achievements, Mississippi must defend our Senate Republican majority. You know, we had a fantastic evening and day very recently, the midterms. We got very little credit from the fake news media. Very little credit. They talked about the House, but the people I campaigned for in the House, which was very few, I can't -- look, I'm one person. But the people I campaigned, like in Kentucky, Andy Barr, and so many others, they won. But the people I campaigned for, generally governor of Georgia, governor of Florida, governor of Ohio, Tennessee, senator, great new senator from Tennessee. Indiana, North Dakota, Missouri, Florida, and many, many others. We got very little credit. But we actually -- if we win tomorrow, we go 53-47. And nobody can believe it. Fifty-three to forty-seven, they're not happy. The fake news is not happy about those numbers. But that really does -- that gives us very much of a breather. And for those of you that study politics, when the sitting president picks up a seat, let alone like we've done, that's considered a big deal, for whatever reason. For whatever reason. But I used to say, I think that's going to happen. And I have to tell you, we had three seats, even four seats that were so close, we almost won in areas that a lot of people say don't bother contesting. We almost won in four states that a lot of people said don't bother, you can't win. I said, let's give it a shot. And I'll tell you, a little -- a little tricky business going on. But let's give them the benefit of a doubt, right? If you let Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, and Chuck Schumer... ... win the Mississippi Senate seat, they will try to erase all of our gains, reverse all of our progress, and impose -- you know this -- they want to impose their extreme job-killing agenda. And I just said, you just set your all-time record in Mississippi for jobs. It can disappear quickly with the wrong leadership. We don't want that to happen. So if you want more jobs, less crime, strong borders -- how are we doing on the borders? Then you only have one choice tomorrow: You must vote Republican. We are honored tonight to be joined by several really terrific Mississippi Republican leaders. And we'll start with a friend of mine, he has been so incredible. Seven months ago, he took me around to see things, and then he showed me something that he's maybe the most proud of all of, the African American Museum. Phil Bryant put his guts and his life and his blood into it. Number one, it's doing fantastically. But number two, I loved it, and he did a fantastic job. He is a great governor, Governor Phil Bryant. Where is Phil? Come here, Phil. Come here, Phil. Come on up here, Phil. We have to get him up here, right? Great governor. Thank you so much. Are we having a great night tonight? Are we proud to have Donald J. Trump in the house? You are here, he is here to help elect Cindy Hyde-Smith and make America great again. God bless you, Mississippi. Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks, Phil. Thank you, Phil. Great job. Lieutenant Governor Tate Reeves. Lieutenant Governor, where is our lieutenant governor? Where is he? Where is he? Thank you, Tate. A man who's been spectacular, the job he's done. Everyone's talking about it, U.S. Attorney Mike Hurst. Mike? Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Mike. A very good friend of mine, he's always there, he's always available, and he is very smart. He loves the people of Mississippi. He loves the people of our country, Senator Roger Wicker. Roger? Thank you, Roger. Great job. And a man that did so well recently, it will go down for a long time, you're going to be seeing those words. They were beautiful words. And they were needed very desperately at that time. Brett Kavanaugh was being treated very unfairly, very, very unfairly. And Lindsey Graham got up, and he hit a chord that you hit very rarely in the world of politics or anything else. He said things that were said not only so well, the meaning of what he said really changed the course of that event, and now we have a great, great Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, Lindsey Graham. Lindsey, thank you, Lindsey. Thank you. Thank you, Lindsey. He really did. That was very special. We're all here tonight to support an amazing leader and a tremendous champion for this great state, a woman who went to Washington. She's been there for now a short period of time as your senator, but she is respected by all. And some long-term senators, they've been down there, they told me this is a woman that gets it. She's smart, she's tough, and she loves you. Cindy Hyde-Smith, we have to get her in. Cindy. Come up, Cindy. Come up. Cindy is working every day to rebuild our military, to fix our trade deals, and to deliver for our workers and our farmers and the families of Mississippi. She produces like few produce. This is a very, very special person. Come, Cindy. Cindy defied the Democrat smear machine -- and that's what it was -- by proudly voting Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And her vote was so important. And we just want to thank Cindy Hyde-Smith. You've got to go out tomorrow and vote. We need her. We need her badly. Thank you, Cindy. Thank you, Mr. President. I tell you, isn't it great to have the president of the United States here in Mississippi? What a great crowd we have tonight for you. I'll tell you, you know, in the beginning, I said, this campaign, this election, it's not about me. It's about the people of Mississippi. It's about what you believe in and what you care about: Lower taxes, less regulations, supporting our military, supporting our veterans, supporting our law enforcement, protecting the life of the unborn. That's it. It is about standing firm on the Second Amendment rights all day long. You know, I think that I have given you one reason why I can ask for your vote tonight. That's because I have worked very hard for you, and you can count on me when it comes to your conservative values. You know, other than being the wife to Michael and the mother to Anna-Michael Smith, this is the highest honor of my earthly life, as serving as your U.S. senator. And I want you to know, I have so much gratitude for Governor Phil Bryant for appointing me. Thank you, Governor. But tomorrow is very important. It is so much at stake. It is such a critical election tomorrow. We have got to go out. What's on the ballot tomorrow is not just my name, Cindy Hyde-Smith. It is your conservative values. That's what's on the ballot tomorrow. I asked every Mississippian, please contact everybody. Contact...  Thank you. Contact your friends, your relatives, your coworkers. Remind everybody tomorrow's Election Day, folks. We've got to get out and vote tomorrow. Thank you for this opportunity. And I want to continue to serve you as your United States senator. Thank you so much, Mississippi. Get out tomorrow and vote for Cindy. She'll never let you down. The future of the American judicial system is at the center of tomorrow's election. So important. It's a choice between judges who follow the rule of law and judges who follow the radical resistance. That's what it is. Obstructionists. Cindy's opponent, Mike Espy, opposed Brett Kavanaugh. He's not had a great career, folks. Check it out. Democrats want activist judges who will rewrite our laws, undermine our democracy, and substitute their own far-left politics for the plane and very beautiful meaning of our Constitution. That's what they want to do. A vote for Espy is a vote for the Democrat agenda of socialism and open borders. Espy supported one of the largest tax increases, you know this, in American history. He cosponsored legislation providing late-term abortion on demand. And he sponsored legislation to provide free government health care to illegal aliens at your expense. Congratulations. Congratulations, Mississippi. Mississippi deserves a senator who shares your values and will fight for your values, and that senator is Cindy Hyde-Smith. Now, also at stake in tomorrow's election are your Medicare benefits. That's a big deal. Democrats want to raid Medicare to find socialism. It won't last long. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and, by the way, who have paid for it, just in case we forget. And Republicans will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. Democrats will also destroy your health care by inviting caravan after caravan after caravan of illegal aliens... ... to violate our borders, overwhelming our communities, and bankrupting our treasury. You look at what's happening on our border and you see people coming up by the thousands. And frankly, if we didn't show them strength and a strong border -- and nobody's shown a stronger border -- if we didn't do that, you would have hundreds of thousands of people pouring into our country. We are doing a job, and we will continue to do a job. We're doing what's right.  So the wall has started, very, very substantially. In fact, you saw the other day the wall stopped everybody and it was only the section that's now under construction. They breached it, but only momentarily. It didn't take long. Momentarily. That was called a very momentary breach. I'll tell you what, how good is our border enforcement, ICE, our border patrols, our local police, and our military doing? And you see what our military has already done to existing walls. They made them very unfriendly looking, wouldn't you say? Climbing those walls would be a very painful experience right now. Republicans are committed to halting this incursion and defending the sovereign borders of the United States. We are sending a simple message to the lawless caravans and to the illegal trespassers marching forward our border. It's very simple, turn back now, go back home. We will not let you in. We are not going to let you in. Turn back now. Illegal immigration is also deeply unfair to American workers, including African-American workers. People don't realize what happens. My administration will always put the citizens of our country first. The policies of open borders are a threat to every community. Since I took office, ICE agents have arrested over 235,000 aliens with criminal records. Can you believe that, 235,000? That's a lot. And by the way, they want to get rid of ICE, can you believe it? These are tough, strong, brilliant people that also happen to love our country. And I don't want that job, and you don't want it. And you don't want it. And you don't want it. And you might take it right there. He might -- this guy, I think you could qualify. Including those charged or convicted of more than 100,000 assaults and nearly 4,000 murders. And we're getting MS-13 out. We're taking them out by the thousands and shipping them the hell out of here. We're getting them out. In the state of Texas alone, according to the Texas Department of Public Safety, between 2011 and 2018, more than 663,000 crimes were committed by illegal immigrants. You know, you hear these stories about, oh, they don't commit crimes. We commit crimes, they don't commit crimes. Always it's us. No, no, it doesn't work that way. It's fake news. It's fake news. Just recently, an illegal alien released by a sanctuary city in New Jersey was charged with a triple homicide in another state. In just one operation alone, our ICE officers arrested 355 MS-13 gang members on Long Island and in the New York City area. Of those, nearly half were present in the country because they took advantage of the Democrat-backed loophole granting entry to unaccompanied alien minors. Welcome to the United States. Yet Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want to turn America into one giant sanctuary city for violent criminals and MS-13 and other gang killers. No, thank you. No, thank you. No, thank you. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding citizens, not criminal aliens. Every single day, we are finding the illegal alien gang members and predators and we are either throwing them the hell out of here, putting them in jail, or just plain getting them out of our country as nicely as possible. Tomorrow's election is about safety, and tomorrow's election is about prosperity. For decades, Washington politicians allowed foreign countries to plunder our jobs, shutter our factories, and decimate our industries. I've been talking about it for 20 years. When I was in the private sector -- I can't believe I'm not in the private sector. Now they call me a politician. I'm a politician. I can't stand it. They said he's a political person. But I've only had one race, and look at the result. Here we are. And we're only going to have one more race, and hopefully that result will be even better, because we produced. Trillions of dollars were ripped from our nation and redistributed all across the globe. We've distributed money, and we've distributed our wealth. It's been ripped away from us. It's been taken and given to China and given to Japan and given to South Korea and given to South America and given to everybody all over the world. It's been given to everybody but us. We racked up $4.5 trillion in trade deficits with China since they entered the WTO. That's the World Trade Organization, which other than NAFTA is probably the worst trade deal any country has ever entered, and we entered it, and that's what built China into the power, but now we're the big power. We're far more powerful. And that's the way we're going to keep it. We had an annual trade deficit...  We had an annual trade deficit -- listen to this. Who made these deals? Who made them? Almost $800 billion a year we lose on trade. We're stopping that. We're turning that. We just made a great new deal with Canada, with Mexico. But of course, they have to treat us fairly. Otherwise we'll just tax their product when it comes in. You know that. You know that. You know that. You know what I'm talking about. Entire nations were rebuilt at the expense of America's middle class and, frankly, at the expense of America's business. This massive transfer of wealth represented the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Greatest jobs theft. And you know what? I don't blame China. And I don't blame these other countries. I blame the leaders of the United States that allowed this to happen. Why shouldn't the other countries try and make these great deals that they've made? I told President Xi, I mean, it's over, I said it's over, but I don't blame you. I don't blame you at all. I wish we had people that did the same thing in reverse, but we didn't have those people, unfortunately. Here in Mississippi, you lost 4 out of 10 manufacturing jobs in the last 20 years alone. But those days are over. That's why you're doing so well now, and you do have a great, great governor, I have to say that. America's economic surrender ended the day that I took the oath of office. It ended. And you know what? It really was. Through stupidity, it was an economic surrender. Economic surrender. Why we allowed it to happen, how we allowed it to happen, why these politicians didn't do their job, it's a disgrace. So we're not going to be taken advantage of anymore. Under my administration, we've created 600,000 brand-new manufacturing jobs that people said could never come back to our country. Right? Remember the previous administration? Remember the previous administration said, oh, manufacturing jobs, that will never happen. I kept saying, what's he talking about? Manufacturing, we got to make things, right? They said manufacturing jobs would never come back. You'd need a magic wand. Well, we found the magic wand. And they're great jobs. They're high-paying jobs. They're brilliant jobs. They're important jobs. Look at what's happened to our steel industry. Our steel industry a year ago was dead, and now it's one of the most vibrant anywhere in the world, because we stopped the steel dumping and we put a big tax on -- when they steel dump, they can dump all they want, but they pay 25 percent on everything they dump, and our steel now is doing great. Our industry has come back. We have steel mills being built all over the country. Nobody saw anything like it ever before. Although 50 years ago, they did well, but for many, many years, nobody's seen anything like it. Last month alone, we added more than 1,000 manufacturing jobs each and every day last month. We're cracking down on countries that cheat and placing tariffs on countries that unfairly subsidized their goods and dump them into our markets like they were doing with steel. They can dump all they want. I want them to dump a lot. But, you know, number one, what they dump isn't very good, in terms of making high-quality steel. When you need structural steel and other kinds of great steel, you don't want to buy that dumped crap. You want quality stuff. But we're making a lot of money. We're making a lot of money. They're paying -- they're paying a lot. They want to dump, it's OK. Dump all you want. You're going to pay a lot. That money is flowing right into our treasury, and so are the jobs. Jobs, jobs. We've never saw anything like it. The steel industry, we're very proud of it. We're replacing the NAFTA disaster with a brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement. It's called the USMCA, like the song, YMCA, right? The USMCA is a tremendous victory for Mississippi farmers, manufacturers, and autoworkers. Tremendous. It's a tremendous deal for us. And you know, one of the things in that deal, you're not going to have companies moving to Mexico and Canada. I told them, that's one thing we can't do. Not going to happen under that deal. No incentive to move, none, whatsoever. After years of rebuilding foreign countries, we are finally rebuilding our country, and we are doing it with American aluminum and we are doing it with American steel. We have taken bold action to reduce the cost of prescription drugs. Drug prices are starting to come down. Drug companies, a number of months ago, were going to raise their prices. I actually called up the heads of Pfizer and Novartis and others. I said you can't do that. You can't raise your prices. And you know what they did? They brought them down, they didn't raise them. And that's when I realized being the president of the United States is a very powerful position. Of course, I guarantee any other president wouldn't be calling up the drug companies and telling them not to raise their price. And right here in Mississippi, we have opened up new affordable health care plans that are almost 60 percent cheaper than the disaster known as Obamacare. And to help critically ill patients get life-saving treatments, we passed something that I'm very proud of. It's called right to try. Right to try. Hopefully nobody in this room is going to need it for a long time, but right to try is we have the greatest medicines and doctors in the world, and we never let anybody touch it until it was approved. And it would take many years to get it approved. And these people in many cases are terminally ill. And what we did is we made it possible for them to have it. You know -- you all know friends, if they had no money, they'd stay home. There was no hope. If they had money, they would go to Asia, they'd go to South America, they'd go to Europe looking for something. We have some incredible drugs and potential cures in the pipeline. Now they sign a quick paper and they have the right to try. And we've had unbelievable success with some of these drugs. It sounds simple, but years and years they've tried to pass it, and they never got it passed. We also passed veterans choice, giving our great veterans the right to see a private doctor instead of waiting in line for two weeks, four weeks, six weeks, eight weeks, forever. And the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure anyone who mistreats our great veterans will be accountable. We'll look at them and we'll say, get the hell out of here, you're fired, get out. These are a lot of the things we've passed. We could go on. I mean, I have a list, literally, that's four pages long. But I don't want to bore you. We'd just go point after point after point. This has never happened. Nobody has ever done so much in the first two years of a presidency as this administration. Nobody. Nobody. We also just secured $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military, and we gave our great warriors their largest pay raise in more than 10 years. And at my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces. It's called the Space Force. Very important. Very, very important. I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal, which was a disaster. And we have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together, we've made unbelievable progress and we are just getting started. But we need every last Republican vote in the U.S. Senate. We need 53. We want to get to that 53 number. They don't believe it, but they don't want to talk about it, but that's OK. We have to get 53-47. That will be a wonderful, wonderful day. So tomorrow is a big day. Tomorrow is a big day. Only with a strong Senate GOP majority can we defend your tax cuts, defend your Second Amendment, protect your Medicare and Social Security, and confirm judges who will interpret the Constitution exactly as written. With your support, we will fight every day to secure the border, stop illegal immigration, pass Kate's laws, end sanctuary cities, end chain migration, cancel the ridiculous visa lottery, and keep the criminal drug dealers and terrorists the hell out of our country. We will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. For years and years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and proud of America. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for Mississippi. We are proudly standing up for our great national anthem. So I am asking every citizen from every party, community, background, race, color, creed, religion, for your support tomorrow, Cindy Hyde-Smith. I need the great people of Mississippi to send a message to cryin' Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, the radical Democrats, by electing Cindy. We want Cindy tomorrow. This is the greatest political movement in the history of our country. It is. It is. I say it often, they never even challenge me. They hate like hell not to. They challenge things, they challenge everything, every word you say. But this is the greatest political movement in the history of our country. There's nothing like this. Nothing like this has ever happened. And you still have deep state, but one by one, we're getting them out. You have deep state bad people. You have a lot of phony stuff going on. But you know what? One by one, we're winning. We're winning, winning, winning. Now, there's never been a movement like this. It's a movement about making government work for the people and answer to the people. It's about reclaiming America's dignity and reawakening America's pride. It's about building a brighter future for every man, woman and child all across this magnificent land. It's about respecting our country. And it's about coming together as one united American family. We stand on the shoulders of courageous American patriots who secured our independence, linked the railroads, built the highways, dug out the great Panama Canal, went to world wars, put satellites into space, and landed an American astronaut on the face of the moon, and today landed a rocket on Mars. Our ancestors defeated fascism, vanquished communism, delivered millions into freedom, and built the single greatest country and the most powerful military in the history of the world. We are Americans, and there is no mountain we can't climb, no obstacle we can't reach, and no dream we cannot achieve. Generations of brave Americans did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit home while others tried to erase their legacy and destroy our very proud American heritage. For the sake of our freedom and for the sake of our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win, win.  We will not bend. We will not break. We will not yield. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never surrender. And we will always fight on to victory. We are one people and one nation and one glorious American destiny. We all share the same home. We all share the same heart. We all salute the same flag. And we are all made by the same almighty God. And together with the incredible people of Mississippi, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Mississippi. Thank you. Thank you."
"Hello, Indiana. It is great to be in Indiana. We had a big victory here not so long ago. Big, big victory. Big one. A big one. And I'm thrilled to be back in the heartland. And you want to see something special? Take a look outside at the thousands and thousands of people that wanted to get inside. You got lucky. You got lucky. This is an incredible time for America. Jobs are soaring, wages are rising, optimism is skyrocketing, and more Americans are working today than ever before in our history. Tomorrow the people of Indiana are going to send Mike Braun to the U.S. Senate to keep America's economic boom surging full speed ahead. He's a great guy, very successful guy, wonderful guy. Nobody knows, he went to Harvard Business School and did well. I shouldn't mention Harvard, but I have to, because at least it shows he has very high aptitude tests, right? And that's -- you know, that's OK. That's a good thing. He's a smart guy, and he's a great guy. And he loves the people of Indiana. He loves Indiana, Mike Braun. Republicans have created the best economy in the history of our country. This is the single best economy in the history of our great country. And it's the hottest jobs market on the planet Earth, but everything we have achieved is at stake tomorrow, everything, because they can take it apart just as fast as we built it. But I don't think that's going happen based on what I'm seeing all over the place. If the radical Democrats take power, they will take a wrecking ball to our economy and to the future of our country. When you enter the voting booth on Tuesday, you will be making a simple choice. A vote for Republicans is a vote to continue our extraordinary prosperity. A vote for Democrats is a vote to bring this economic boom crashing down very rapidly. The Democrat agenda will deliver a socialist nightmare. It's what it is. The Republican agenda is delivering the American dream -- optimism, the American dream. In the last month alone, we added another 250,000 brand-new jobs. They couldn't believe it, the fake news media, they were very upset. They were very upset, very, very -- they were very upset when they saw those numbers. And it couldn't have come at a better time, Friday, what a beautiful time. Election on Tuesday, comes on Friday. And by the way, that's despite those numbers, two unbelievably powerful vicious hurricanes which always devastate job numbers, despite that, 250,000 new jobs. The unemployment rate is now at the lowest level in more than 50 -- five-oh -- 50 years. We have created 4.5 million new jobs since Election Day. Oh, wasn't that a nice day? Remember that? Was that a nice day? Oh, that beautiful November day. We had a lot of happy -- were you all happy on that particular day? Well, they were among the highest ratings in the history of television. That still didn't make them happy. They were miserable. That's the only time they got great ratings, and they felt badly about it. And we've lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment have all reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. And we passed -- despite the fact that it was said it could not be done -- a massive tax cut, largest in history, for Indiana workers, for the entire country. And we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. And to protect your rights and freedoms, we overcame the Democrat smear campaign and confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And just in case you haven't seen it, one of his accusers came out on Friday and said she never met him, he didn't do the horrible thing that she said, she never met him, it didn't happen, she was lying. She was lying. It was a false accusation. It was a false statement. A disgrace. And I remember -- I remember when that phony statement came out, a lot of people were saying he must immediately abandon, he must -- and do you know what, for 10 years, everybody said Brett Kavanaugh -- I didn't know who he was. But for 10 years, the intellect, the scholastic ability, the legal genius. I was hearing his name for years, that they said he'll be on the Supreme Court. I said, who is he? Who is he? But I'd hear it for years. And think of that. This woman came out and said she made up the story.  And they got to look at the other ones, also, folks, because take a look at the other ones, folks. You know, when I gave him -- gave him a little phone call, could I meet you? I met him at the White House. Really clean-cut, nice guy. I said, Judge -- at that time, he was judge, had an incredible record. Not a problem in his whole life. Best student, Yale, Yale Law School, best marks, best everything. Right? Never problem, perfect family, beautiful, great kids, wife, everything perfect. I said, Judge, I want to nominate you for the United States Supreme Court. And he said, sir, this is the greatest honor of my life. We shook hands. And I said, Judge, let me just tell you, this is going to be a piece of cake. You are so good. Your academic record, your record at home, your record in every way. You are going to go through so fast, it's going to be so easy. And he said, thank you. And then he sat down and a lot of bad things started being said. And I'll tell you what -- it was, I'll tell you what, it was a disgrace. One guy, you know who that is? The great Vietnam hero, right? Great Vietnam hero. Right? You know all about that, except he never went to Vietnam.  And he stood up and he said, I don't want any lies, I only want the truth. This guy lied for 15 years about his -- Da Nang, right? Da Nang province. When I was climbing up the hill with Da Nang, I was climbing up the hill. And my soldiers were going down left and right. He never saw Vietnam. He was in the Reserves. Not bad, Reserves. He never saw Vietnam. He was climbing up the hill. Bullets left and right. My buddies going down. And then he wants honesty. This is the crap we have to put up with? Then you have Dianne Feinstein. Dianne Feinstein. Right? Todd Young's friend. Senator Cornyn of Texas looked at her, said, did you leak? And she got scared. You know, he's a pretty tough guy, right, Tom? Really, I mean, this was unbelievable. Did you leak? Senator Cornyn, did you leak? And she goes, uh, what? Did you leak? Did we leak? We went through this. The worst body language any human being has ever used or seen. In other words, she leaked. She leaked. And that's just the beginning. What they did is a disgrace. Oh no. Are they good ones or bad ones? Good or bad? Good or bad? Hey, look at the cameras, everybody. They're finally turned. Look. They're finally turned! They're finally turned!  The cameras turned like a pretzel. Did you see that? They had no angle, but they won't turn to show these huge crowds. They never want to show the crowds. You have to see. You have to see. I just left Ohio. You want to see? It was incredible. This is incredible. Outside is even more incredible, because it's more people. But they never show it. They keep it right trained on my face, which I don't like, and about five people behind me. Somebody there is going to be a star. I don't know who it is. You may have better seats, but you know what? Honestly, somebody is going to be very famous back there. But they don't show the crowds. Could you spin the cameras around, please, and show the crowd? Come on. They don't turn them. Look. They don't turn them because they're fake news. They're fake news. They don't turn them. They're fake news. They never turn them. My wife always says, how was the crowd? I say, didn't you see it? No, they kept it right on your face. They never move your face. They never -- and they do that because they don't want people to see how big the crowd is. They don't want that. Now, President Obama, he had... No, he was in Miami or someplace. And in the big basketball arena that seats 18,000 people, he had 1,000 people. Seriously. And not person that I saw reported that. If I had one empty seat right up in that corner, right there, hello, folks, right there, if there was an empty seat, that would be a front-page story that we're not drawing the crowds anymore. Right, Coach? Hey, Coach. No, they don't turn the camera. In fact, the first time -- that's about the first protester I've seen in a long time. And it's the first time I've seen the cameras like pretzels, boom, right up into that. Because you see, they think that's a bad thing for us to have a protester. And tomorrow you will have on television protests. Was it one person or two? It was one person. The contrast in this election could not be more clear. By the way, is there anything like a Trump rally? Governor!  Democrats produce mobs. That's what they're doing. But we're winning. Republicans produce jobs. Very simple. Very simple. A vote for any Democrat tomorrow is a vote to hand over power to cryin' Chuck Schumer. You know cryin' Chuck, right? Remember when he... He never cried before. I've known him a long time. I never saw him cry, but that was an appropriate moment. Right on schedule. Nancy Pelosi. The legendary Maxine Waters, a real genius. And their extreme job-killing agenda. That's what it's for. They want to raise your taxes, the Democrats do, restore crippling regulations, shut down your new steel mills, take away your health care, and put illegal aliens before American citizens. That's what they want. Democrats are inviting caravan after caravan of illegal aliens to pour into our country, overwhelming your schools, your hospitals, and your communities. If you want more caravans, if you want more crime, vote Democrat tomorrow. If you want strong borders -- you see what we're doing, we got the worst laws because they won't give us the votes. If you want strong borders and safe communities, no drugs, no caravans, vote Republican. Get him out of here, please. Get him out. Out! Out! Go home to Mommy. Go home to Mommy. Oh, look at the cameras. Look, the cameras are right on him. The cameras are right on him, folks. All right. Can we have our law enforcement take him out of here, please? You know, the funny thing about this stuff, though? There's a guy who's a weak person with a weak voice. Nobody hears him. But our guys are all going crazy, like this. Our guys, actually, right? They're disturbed, but it's what -- that's OK. We love our guys. What can we do? We love them. We're thrilled to be joined tonight, and he just spoke a little while ago, but he's been a friend of mine for a long time, an American football legend who truly knows winning, my friend, Coach Lou Holtz. Lou, thank you. Lou. Lou. What a coach. And what a great guy he is, too. Thank you, Lou. We're also grateful to be joined by many terrific Indiana Republicans, including a man that has done an excellent job. You know, he followed a very tough act, Vice President Mike Pence, right? Very tough act. And he has done a phenomenal job. In fact, Mike was telling me what a great job Governor Eric Holcomb has done. And we also have here someplace, it's tough to find him -- boy, it's tough -- they should tell me, like, where are they -- look at this place, I'm supposed to find somebody. A great person, a friend of mine, helped us so much in every single thing we passed, and nobody's done better than we have in the first two years of office, that I can tell you. Senator Todd Young. There he is. Great person. Hard worker. Hard worker and a winner. Thank you. Thank you, Todd. Great job. And also Congressman Jim Banks. Big help. Thank you, Jim. They're great people. They've helped us with a lot. If you don't want to be saying the words, ""Ladies and gentlemen, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi,"" for the next two years... ... you got to get out tomorrow and you have to get out. You got to get -- Jim, are you ready? You've got to get out, vote for Jim, vote for all of those great congressmen. Vote for all of those great congressmen and women. They have great congressmen and women. And again, something's going on, folks. Something's going on. Let's see. Maybe I'm wrong. There was something going on two years ago. There was something going on, and I felt it. And I feel it again. So I want to introduce three people that probably you've heard of. And, you know, I just left Ohio, and I said, I will never imagine the word beautiful when referring to a woman. I will never do it. No man in this room will ever again say a woman is beautiful, right, because it's not politically correct. But I have a daughter who's very smart. Her name is Ivanka. And she's here. Ivanka, come up. Wow. Hi, Indiana. We love you. We really love you. And we are fighting for you each and every day. And tomorrow, we want you all to turn up and help us fight back, so we continue to keep this rolling, this moment of opportunity unlike anything this country has ever seen. Truly, it's a golden era of opportunity. My father mentioned the job numbers. But people are coming off of sidelines into our workforce, unemployment is at a record low across all categories. It's never been a better time to be an American worker. And that can't stop. So get out and vote tomorrow. And thank you for your love. We return it. Thank you.  And she's a very nice person, I can tell you. And very smart. She went to the Wharton School of Finance, and they say she was very, very smart.  Are you ready? He goes ""and beautiful."" No, I don't say that. Don't ever say that. I have two other great women with me. You've never heard of them. They're very shy and retiring. They want to keep it that way. Kellyanne Conway and Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Thank you, Indiana. You'll have to forgive Kellyanne and I, we're maybe a little speechless. We're not used to friendly crowds. Thank you. It's an honor to be here with so many incredible people. Mostly it's an honor to be with you, Mr. President. Thank you for giving us the privilege of a lifetime to work in your historic administration and to do incredible things and literally change the course of our country. A lot of people know me in my official capacity, and it's one of the greatest honors of my life to serve in your administration, and one of the most important jobs I'll ever have. But the greatest job that I'll ever have and the greatest title I've ever have is that of a mom. And that's why... And that's why I work for this president, because I care about my kids' future and I care about the future of our country. And I want somebody that I know will protect their future, protect this country, and make sure that they have the best America possible. And that's why we're going to keep making America great again. Thank you so much, Indiana. We all over her. Mr. President, thank you. Ivanka, Sarah, I love me some Hoosiers. So let me just say in my personal capacity, because this election is very personal to me, Joe must go. Get him out.  That sounds -- it sounds like about 13,000 people saying that, Mr. President. You don't need to be a pollster to know how to count. This place is filled to the rafters. This president's policies have helped the job creators, the job holders, and the jobseekers. And ladies and gentlemen, if you think your vote doesn't count, if you think that it doesn't matter to have a small majority in the United States Senate, you did not live through the Brett Kavanaugh hearings. It matters. Elections have consequences. And your vote tomorrow is so incredibly important. Yeah, that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for being here. But you have to do one more thing for us. You've got to get everybody you know out to the polls tomorrow or it doesn't matter. You got to get them out. Grab a friend. Get a colleague. Tell them it matters. We need to keep this going. Mr. President, I just am reminded of the 2016 crowds. It looked an awful lot like this. It's starting to feel an awful lot the same. But my favorite thing, Mr. President, they'd say, we see -- we see all the crowds. We see the crowds. But will they vote? No, they stood in the rain for four hours, they stayed overnight just to be here, but they're not going to vote. So you tell me, but will you vote? God bless you, Indiana. God bless the United States of America. Go Mike Braun. God bless the United States of America.  So I just saw them standing there, and I said, let's get them up here, right? That's good. That was a good job. But it is true. I didn't say it in a long time. They used to say -- I remember, I was in New Hampshire making a speech. And they had people -- it was like 25 degrees below zero, they're freezing. They were there for 24 hours. Their clothing, I don't know who makes it, but it must be the greatest in the world, right? And then the media was saying, yes, they waited for 24 hours in subzero temperature, but will they vote? To take -- the vote took about 15 seconds, right? Will they vote? The answer is, they voted in New Hampshire. They voted all over. And here we are, folks. Here we are. Tomorrow, the people of Indiana are going to elect an outstanding man. He will be a great new senator to work along with Todd. A vote for Mike Braun is a vote to keep your jobs going, to keep your wages going up, and to take care once and for all -- and we've done a really good job for it. You look at the Wall Street Journal today, their editorial, they say we haven't gotten the credit for what we've done to health care, including, by the way, getting rid of the worst part of Obamacare, the individual mandate. We're taking care of health care. It's a vote to keep your family safe and to keep criminals, traffickers, and drug dealers the hell out of our country. We want them out. Mike's opponent is an extreme liberal Democrat named Joe Donnelly. Now... He's gone rogue on the Democrats. He's gone rogue because now he likes Trump a lot. He loves my border policy. They got to come in through a process. They got to come in legally. I don't know if he said the wall yet, but he will be saying that pretty soon, I suspect, Todd, right? And all of a sudden, he's talking about what we've been talking about. Now here's the problem. There's one problem. We'll have the election tomorrow, and on Wednesday, he'll be totally against us. He'll never vote for us. He will never, ever vote for us. That's what's the problem. A number of them, I'm popular in a lot of states, can you believe this? Really popular. I mean, we won -- we won states by more than 42 points, can you believe it? So when you guys think you're doing well, I did well in a lot of -- and all of a sudden, we see these senators veering to almost exactly my words. I say, did they turn Republican? But what they do is, on Wednesday, they go back to who they are. And we'll never get a vote from Joe Donnelly. When we come in with the health care, when we come in with whatever we want, we will never -- because it's obstruction. Their whole campaign is named resist. Right? Resist. We don't want to resist. We want to get things done. We want the opposite. So a vote for Joe is a vote to put Schumer in charge of the Senate and to put Dianne Feinstein in charge of Senate Judiciary Committee. Remember, Joe Donnelly voted against your tax cuts. And he joined the Democrat mob in voting against Justice Brett Kavanaugh. You know that. Despite what he's saying this week, just happened. I was surprised, but not that surprised. Donnelly also supports open borders. He voted to give free welfare to illegal aliens. And he sponsored Dianne Feinstein's bill to expand catch-and-release. Joe Donnelly was rated the least effective Democrat in the entire United States Senate. That's why they call him sleeping Joe. No, but look at this, look. You got a chance to put Mike Braun there, smart, tough. He sleeps about four hours a night, or less. He's going to work like hell for you, and he's going to really -- he doesn't care. He's given up a lot to do this. He's given up a lot. Given up a lot. And Joe wakes up primarily when Schumer calls. Yes, sir. This is the way I want you to vote. Uh, yes, sir. If you want a senator who will always be loyal to the people of Indiana, he'll do what's right, vote tomorrow. Get out tomorrow. You've got to do it. Mike Braun, he will be a great senator. Mike, come on up. Fort Wayne, Allen County, the heart and soul of conservatism in Indiana, that's what you are. You know, the president is right. I'm doing this, I think, for the right reasons. Not the pay and the perks. Not to nestle in, in D.C. I signed a term limits pledge. It is to help somebody that's shaking up Washington.  So when my wife and I decided -- he's right, we lived out east for two years, saw the light, moved back to our hometown, been there ever since. She's had her business in our downtown for 40 years, I've had my own for 37. And you learn a lot in the real world. These folks that go there and do it for the pay and the perks nestle in, nothing gets done. I remember back to November 2016. We all watched with amazement that year when this new guy from out east came onto the scene, took on the establishment. Yeah. I'll never forget, I did go to bed at a quarter after 2 and I do get by with five to six hours of sleep, but went to bed, got up the next morning about 5:30, quarter until six, turned the tube on, and see President-elect Trump. So you've all done it before when you heard great news. I'm jumping up and down. I knew my wife had about another hour to go. I went up, got her out of bed. We were both hooting and hollering. What a big day. So this is a rare opportunity, with -- we've got tax reform that's already come down the pike. We're sharing those benefits with our employees. We raised 401(k) benefits, lowered family health care plans by $1,400 bucks a year, took on the health insurance companies 10 years ago. My employees have not paid a nickel more for good insurance in 10 years. That's what you're going to get out of me. We finally got an opportunity. We need more reinforcements from the real world, people that have done something. You're going to see in the next two years, and once the president gets re-elected, there are going to be more people like me to come on board. So, do this for me. Family and friends, get them out to vote. Help me send Joe Donnelly to the early retirement he deserves. Thank you so much. Thank you. Wow. He's going to be great. He's going to be great. And, Todd, I think you like very much the prospect of working with that man. Right? Todd Young. Thank you. Thank you, Todd. That will be a great team. That will be a great team. If Democrats gain power on Tuesday, one of their very first projects will be a socialist takeover of American health care.  Get them out, please. Get them out.  I don't know what it is about Indiana, but I'm not surprised. I haven't had one of these things happen in a long time. And now I have three of them tonight. That's Indiana for you. That's Indiana. Going back home to mama. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 360,000 Indiana seniors who depend on it. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it and who, by the way, paid for it. They did pay for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Please remember that. Democrats' plan to destroy health care also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. Not something that Indiana is really thrilled about. Your taxes will triple. Your taxes will triple. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and overrun our country, and they want to sign them up for free welfare, free health care, free education, and most importantly, the right to vote. They want them to vote. They want them to vote, folks. That's what they want. That's a big deal, so that people like Todd Young will never see the Senate again. That's not going to happen. That's not going to happen, I have a feeling. There's only one way to stop this Democrat-led assault on America's sovereignty. You have to vote Republican tomorrow. You have to. Illegal immigration costs our country more than $100 billion every year. Think of that, $100 billion. And that's a very, very low number. I'm using that low number so they can't criticize me. Because I said -- If I said, seriously, $210 billion, they -- you know, if I'm off 15 cents on the high side, they'll say Donald Trump exaggerated the number. So I go real low and I cut it in half, $100 billion. And that's a real low number. And that's more than double the budget of Indiana, Tennessee, and Georgia combined. And I mentioned those two other great places, because we have two big races in Georgia, right? You know that, right? Big one. We have a big one in Georgia, big one in Tennessee. Marsha Blackburn's great. Right? Brian. You're going to have a new governor. And he's going to be great in Georgia. You got have it right. We got to get it right to make our country great again, we have to get it right. We're going to get it right. These dangerous policies drain our Treasury and they threaten our communities. Nearly 100 percent of the heroin in the United States enters through the southern border. People don't know that. Along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth, and a substantial portion of deadly fentanyl. These drugs destroy the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, and 70,000 Americans a year die from these drugs. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers, who the Democrats want to fire... They're great. They're tough, they're strong, and they love our country, I'll tell you that. And they take a lot of abuse. Arrested more than -- listen to this -- 127,000 illegal aliens with criminal records, 127,000 with criminal records... ... including those charged or convicted of approximately 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes, and 1,800 murders. Can you believe it? And did you see what I put on this week? Did you see? Not the rough guy screaming at the judge that he's going to kill everybody, but the second one wearing a hat. And he wanted to come into our country, but he asked for a pardon. And they said, oh, the announcer, the young woman that was doing probably some kind of a reporter, and she said, oh, you want a pardon? What is it for? And they have it in Spanish. Murder. She said, what? Murder? Murder? You want a pardon for murder? This was one of the people in the caravan, wants a pardon for murder. Or attempted murder, to be exact. No, we don't want that. We don't want that. We're making our country great again. We don't want that. You can't make a country great if we're going to take some other country's problems, other countries that we pay hundreds of millions of dollars to a year and then they allow caravans to form. That's not going to go on too long, I'll tell you. Not going to go on too long. But the Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want America to be a giant sanctuary city for drug dealers, gang members, and MS-13 killers. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary city for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And we will always stand with the heroes of ICE, Border Patrol, and law enforcement. And you do have great law enforcement in Indiana. They're all over the place. They're great. You've got great law enforcement. Great governor. Great governor. This election is about safety, and this election is about jobs. For years you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth, shudder our factories, and steal our jobs. But those days are over. And in case you haven't noticed, our country is respected again. Very much respected. We're respected again. We've added nearly half a million manufacturing jobs since the election, jobs that the previous administration said could never come back. You remember that? Remember we need a magic wand to get them back. We found the magic wand. And last month alone, we added another 32,000 manufacturing jobs. That's 1,000 new manufacturing jobs every single day. They were never going to come back. They're all over the place. And we have many, many companies coming back into our country. I was with Prime Minister Abe of Japan, great gentlemen. Just had a big re-election, got a tremendous vote. And he said many car companies -- he gave me a list of the names. I have the -- because I don't want to just hear many. I want to know specifically, which ones are we talking about? Because they do very well with the United States. You know, for years, Japan does very well with the United States. And I told him -- he's a friend of mine, Shinzo, we have to start talking about this. This is no good. Too unfair. No good. But he said, but we are sending many companies, and it's true. We have companies going to Ohio and Indiana and North Carolina and South Carolina and Pennsylvania and Florida. Big, beautiful car companies, because we like the cars when they're made here, not when they're made in other countries. I just like them better. They have a better feel. They have a better feel. I like them made in the USA. Remember years ago? Made in the USA. You don't hear that, but you're starting to hear it, because we are bringing back new companies like you've never seen, including Foxconn in Wisconsin. Foxconn. Governor Scott Walker did an incredible job. I told them, Foxconn, they're friends of mine. Scott, good luck. And I handed it to them. And there are very, very few people -- governors, I think your governor could have pulled it off, actually. There are very few -- I know he could -- there are very few governors that could have taken that big, big, complex deal and quickly made it into one of the most incredible plants I've ever seen in my life. They make Apple equipment, much of the Apple equipment at the highest level. They make robots. They make things you wouldn't believe. It's like a new age. We brought them into Wisconsin. And they're coming, and many other companies are coming. They're all pouring into our company. They want to be-- they're coming into our country at every level. They want to be where the action is. And they say it. We want to be where the action is. And this country is the hottest country anywhere in the world. And that's where they want to be. I recently announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal with an incredible, brand-new, U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement. Great deal. The USMCA is a tremendous victory for Indiana farmers, manufacturers, and dairy producers. Everybody in our country is very happy about that deal. And they've studied it closely. We have taken historic action to bring back American jobs by cracking down on China's very abusive trade practices. But that's going to work out. That's going to work out. Taking in billions and billions of dollars in taxes from China. Never happened before. But they want to make a deal. And that's good, because I like them, and I like their president. President Xi. And we're going to make a deal, I believe. After years of -- but a fair deal. Fair deal. There's a difference. No bad deals. After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country, and we are doing it with American steel. Thanks to our tariffs and tough trade policies, our steel mills are roaring back to life, and you see that all over your state. Here in Indiana, Steel Dynamics has announced a $75 million investment in Columbia City and a $400 million investment in Terre Haute. And just three months ago, U.S. Steel announced a $750 million investment in a place called Gary, Indiana. Do we have a doctor, please? Doctor? Doctor in the house, please. Thank you. Thank you. OK. Take your time. No problem. Take your time. Doctor, please. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you. Take your time. Take your time. Take your time. That's one of our good fans. Let's just hope everything is fine. Right? We have plenty of time. Plenty of time.  Thank you, Doctor. Good. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you. We have water right here coming out. Water coming out. Looking good. Looking good. Looking good. Looking good. Looking good. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you. Great job. Thank you. Looking good. With our great people -- he'll be back in about 10 minutes. That was good. That was good. Thank you very much, Doctor. Every day, it's promises made, promises kept. We have also tak"
"Thank you very much, Missouri. You are incredible, incredible people. Wow. And we never said to Rush he's got eight minutes. Rush can have two hours, three hours. There's nobody like him. There never has been anybody like him. I was speaking to Sean Hannity backstage. Do we love Sean, by the way? And Sean said, there is nobody like this man. And he's a real good guy. Although he's tough, he's tough. But, boy, I'll tell you what, when he's on your side, there's nobody you want better. I mean, it's really great. It's really great when he's with you. The biggest of all time at what he does. I also want to thank my good friend, Lee Greenwood. How about Lee? So we were in Tennessee last night, and Lee was there, and I get that. But this was a surprise tonight. But, you know, that song is one of the great songs, but when he's singing to you like direct, we really like that song, right? We really -- and we like Lee Greenwood, and he's been with us from the beginning. He has been with us absolutely from the beginning. And while we're talking about incredible people, let's get it over with, right? So I have a few people that are right out here, and they're very special. They've done an incredible job for us. They've been with us from the beginning, also. I'm going to start by saying Sean Hannity, come on up. Sean Hannity. By the way, all those people in the back are fake news. Mr. President, I did an opening monologue today, and I had no idea you were going to invite me up here. And the one thing that has made and defined your presidency more than anything else: Promises made, promises kept. Four-and-a-half million new American jobs, 4.3 million Americans off food stamps, 4 million Americans out of poverty. And we're not dropping cash loads and cargo planes of cash to Iranian mullahs that chant death to America. Mr. President, thank you. And we don't mean at all to insult -- look at the size of the media back there. That's a lot of people. And you do have, honestly, I see some -- you have some very fine people back there. But you have some that aren't so fine. But we don't -- we don't want to insult, but I have to do this, also, because there's a woman on Saturday night that treats us very, very well. And she does it with love and with passion for the country, not for me. It's not a passion for me. It's a passion for the country. And I really believe it's a passion for you, because we've -- we've together formed the single greatest political movement in the history of our country. She understands that. And she's understood it from day one, and she did this little show, and she was just going to do it, a little fun, and then it became this tremendous success, and she has got viewership like you wouldn't believe, and she speaks from the heart. Her opening monologue is always exciting. It's always exciting, and it's always brilliant, and she's my friend, and she's your friend. Justice Jeanine. Thank you. Do you like the fact that we are now in the longest, strongest economic growth streak in American history? Do you like the fact that this man is the tip of the spear, who goes out there every day and fights for us? If you like the America that he is making now, you've got to make sure you get out there tomorrow, if you haven't voted yet. Everyone you know, your grandmother, your cousin, your kids, even your next-door neighbor if you don't like them, get them out to vote for Donald Trump and all -- not the -- all the people who are running for the Republican Party. We've got to have them be very careful with those stairs, because she just did a great job, but we don't want her to fall going down those stairs, because they will be decimated. Jeanine has been a great, great friend to all of us. You know that. Also, we have some terrific people that have been with us, and they've worked for us, and they've taken the slings, the arrows, and they are so strong, so tough, so smart. I just want to introduce somebody, and I said today twice, in Ohio, where we had a crowd like this, and outside there were thousands and thousands of people. And then we went to Indiana, where we had a crowd like this, and there were thousands and thousands of people outside. And I just want to say, there's something happening out there, folks. There's something happening. Now, you don't know -- and I'm not on the ticket, although they want to put me on the ticket -- I will say this, if we don't do so well tomorrow, they will put me on the ticket. If we do great tomorrow, they will say he had nothing to do with it, he was not on the ticket. But that's OK. We're all getting used to each other. Does that look like the Academy Awards back there? Look how many people there are. Look how many, the Academy Awards. That's the Academy Awards. And you know, the bad thing, we can have these massive crowds, and this is my third one today this way. You know, that's not supposed to happen. That's not. Somebody said it's not humanly possible. I said, I guess it is. But, you know, these events, they say you do one a month and then you recover, and then you do another. But you don't do three in one day. These have been incredible. And yesterday, we were in Georgia. We had the biggest crowd you've ever seen, working for the man who hopefully will become the next governor of Georgia. He's a great, great person, and I think he's going to do very well. They had a lot of celebrities going out there, but the celebrities drew flies. They just drew flies. They didn't have much of a draw. But he's going to be fantastic. But I want to introduce a person who, from day one, she was just smart. Even though she's my daughter... She was just smart. Nah, don't worry. I'm smart, also. And we're smart. Hey, you know, while I'm at it, don't you love it when they talk about the elites, right? The elites. Come on, honey. When they talk about the elites, I want to tell you, this is the elites. Ivanka, say a few words. Come on, honey. Hi, Missouri. We love you. We love you. So much love. And we are fighting for you every single day. This president, this administration is fighting so that all Americans can achieve the American dream, and that's what's happening. The economy is roaring. And tomorrow is about ensuring that it stays that way. So, really, thank you for being out here. Thank you for your passion. Thank you for your energy. It's just an amazing honor. We love you. Be careful with those stairs, everybody. Be careful with those stairs. You know, they talk about the elites. The elites. Well, I know all the elites. They're not very smart in many cases. They have a lot of hatred in their heart. I don't know about you, but many of you went to better schools than they did. We did better in the schools than they did. We have better houses, homes, boats. We do better than they do. We work harder than they do. We make more money than they do. Why are they called the elites? But let's let them be called the elites, because you, we are the super elites. We are the super elites. We are doing well. We are doing well. There's some people out there. But you know, I said just before Sean had me on, and I said, you know what's going to bring us together? This incredible success. I think it's going to eventually -- we have to get the election over with, but I think at some point, they're going to say, OK, it's time. We give in. We give in. Let's all get together. At some point, at some point, that's going to happen. But being a negotiator, I have to follow it up with this. And if it doesn't, that's OK, too. So, three people that have helped us so incredibly, very special women that have been unbelievable from day one. I'd like to bring up Sarah Huckabee Sanders... That's pretty good. She's fantastic. That's beautiful. Beautiful. Wow, that's pretty good. How about letting her do the first part of my speech? Good idea? Also, Kellyanne Conway. And a woman who was involved very early on, we had the great state of Michigan. It hadn't been won in many, many years by a Republican. It was said to be unwinnable. I was told, don't even contend for Michigan. And then I met a woman who had a lot of drive and a lot of energy, and she said, I'd love to run Michigan. I said, I heard it was unattainable. She said they love you in Michigan and they want their car industry back, because their industry was taken to Mexico and Canada and other places, and you don't like that. And you don't like that. No, I don't. And by the way, it's all coming back, folks. You see what's happening. It's all coming back. It's all coming back. And she worked so hard. And that beautiful evening in November, when they started counting the ballots, and we won Florida, and we won South Carolina, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania. And then -- and we did win Indiana, that's for sure. And we won Ohio, remember? Remember, they used to say, you cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio. We won Ohio very easily. And Bob Paduchik, who ran that campaign, is here. We love Ohio. Those are incredible people. But what happened was a surprise, because in the midst of all, they said, and Donald Trump has just won the state of -- before Michigan -- Wisconsin. And every go, whoa, whoa! Whoa! Right? They said, whoa, what's this? What's this? That one was -- I mean, not -- where did that come from? But we've done a great job, and they're great people. And we opened it up for the dairy farmers in Wisconsin. We opened up Canada with our new deal for the first time. They like us. Great deal. But then they said -- and we're running a string -- and this is when they started getting extremely nervous. And a very nice guy named John King for CNN, you know, he has the board, the red board, and his hand is like starting to shake... ... because that board had so much red on it, they've never seen anything like it. They didn't know what was happening. Right? That board was red. That board was red. I remember when North Carolina, great state, incredible people, incredible, and the opponent, let's be nice, the opponent said very strongly in the -- that that is their firewall, they cannot lose that. They have it made. Except for one problem, Donald Trump won the state of North Carolina. Won the state. But then out of the blue, out of the blue, they said, oh, oh, oh, you know, there were some crying, you know? These people are very fair. They're crying, OK? And they're not crying out of happiness, that I could understand. They're crying out of despair. But then out of the blue, they were saying to themselves, we've got a problem here, because Donald Trump has just won the great state of Michigan. And that was the ballgame, folks. That was the ballgame. Wisconsin, Michigan, it was -- it was in a great -- was that one of the greatest evenings of all time? And, you know, that was every network, every cable station, everything, everybody, look at them all back there, oh, they're loving this, they're loving this. Every once in a while -- don't worry, I'm not going to mention CNN's name -- but we're not going to watch it. I won't mention NBC or ABC or CBS. Not going to mention. I'm not. I'm not going to mention that you treat us very unfairly. But I think they're getting tired of it. You know why? Because we keep winning. It's driving them crazy. It's driving them crazy.  So, anyway, you're right. USA, nothing like it. Made in the USA. That's happening. They're all moving back, folks. Those companies are all moving back. So this young woman was incredible. And I said, you know, that woman that did such a good job for all of us in Michigan, I think we have to move her to Washington, D.C., to run the Republican National Committee. And she's been -- she's been there ever since, and she has done a fantastic job, Ronna McDaniel. Come up, Ronna. And she actually is very good on television, too. Just say a couple of quick... You guys already heard it. The president was in Michigan the night before we won in 2016. He's in Missouri tonight. You need to deliver a win. Thank you, folks. That's great. Great job. Great job. What a group. I always said that women are smarter than men. Sorry, men. But we understand it, right? Men, do we understand it? No, these are great people. They're great people. And they're our friends, and they work hard for us. And they could be doing other things, but they love what they're doing. They love what we're accomplishing. And tomorrow, the people of Missouri are going to send Josh Hawley to the United States Senate to keep America's economic boom going full speed ahead. In less than two years' time, we have accomplished more than anyone could have ever imagined. We are so far ahead of schedule. If I ever said what we've done along the campaign trail, they would have never, ever let it happen. They would have gone out and said, he's exaggerating. Except for one problem. We've done far more than we ever said we could do. And America's extraordinary comeback is the envy of the entire world. The whole world is talking about -- we're the hottest nation in the world. We're the hottest. And I have great respect for China and President Xi. He's a friend of mine, although he doesn't like me as much lately, but that's OK. He will be back. But -- he said he'll have to get over it. Only a person from Missouri could say that. Who said that? No, we're doing well, and we're doing well with everything, frankly. But I will say, we have to get out tomorrow, and we have to elect a Republican Congress. We have to do it. We've got to stop cryin' Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi from erasing everything that we've gained. Our economy is setting records on a daily basis. There is no place I would rather be for the last stop of this campaign than right here in Missouri with the incredible men and women who make our country run. This is my last stop.  Thank you. Thank you. You know, we're changing the slogan. It's make America great again, greatest slogan of all time. Greatest slogan. But you know what? We can't use it for the second four, right? Because it's like they'd say, well, I thought you were going to make it great? What are you doing using it again? So our new slogan will be in another year keep America great. Keep America great. That's true. Because the wrong people follow us in office, it could all be gone. All of those 401(k)s, where your wife or your husband thinks you're a super genius, a great financial genius, because you're up 51 percent, you're up 62 percent, you're up 42 percent. My husband's a genius, but for their whole marriage of 20 years, she was screaming at him, cursing at him, saying you don't know what the hell you're doing. Now, all of a sudden, he's a genius. You're looking very good. You're looking very good. But I have to say, so this is my last stop, right? I told you, left Ohio, left Georgia yesterday, left all these great states, Montana, big sky, big sky. We left all of these great states. We covered a lot of territory. My last stop is here. I think for one reason, for one reason, and I have to say it, because this is the home of Rush Limbaugh. And David Limbaugh, David, thank you, David. Thank you, David. Great lawyer. I hear David is a great lawyer, right, David? David told me. No, but Sean told me. Everybody tells me. Thank you, David. But this is the home of Rush, and what he did today was fantastic. Because he doesn't do that. He doesn't do that. This is his home. He loves Missouri. And it's very important. Also, this is the place that Josh is running. Josh is a young, incredible guy with tremendous talent. He will serve this country so well. He will represent Missouri so well. And he's actually leading. He's actually leading. He's actually leading. For decades, Washington only served the powerful and the well-connected. Those days are over. Together, we are the voice for every citizen who has ever been overlooked, abandoned, neglected, ignored. You remember the words, the deplorables. Oh, that was a good speech. I don't know. Did the speechwriter for the deplorables speech, did that person get fired immediately or the following week? Wow, did he give us a great gift. But the deplorables are the greatest people on Earth. They're the smartest. Is there a doctor in the house, please? Doctor? Doctor, please, thank you. Thank you very much. Take your time. Doctor, take your time. We have plenty of time, right? Thank you, Doctor. Take your time, Doctor. Thank you. That's fine. Take your time. Don't rush it. That's one of our great people right there. Take your time. Say a little prayer. Go ahead. Say a little prayer. That's good. That's good. Say a little prayer. Take your time. Take your time. Relax. Take your time. Thank you. We've got plenty of time, right?  That was really something. I want to just thank everybody for the way you behaved. That was beautiful. And that at the end was beautiful. Amazing grace. Thank you very much. That was beautiful. Hopefully she'll be OK. Hopefully she'll be ok. I want to just say that tomorrow's so important. Josh Hawley is an amazing fighter. We need to keep this jobs boom going. We need to keep our country going the way it is. You saw what was announced on Friday. Friday was incredible. It was incredible. The jobs numbers, last month alone, we added 250,000 brand-new jobs. The unemployment rate is at its lowest level in more than 50 years. We've created 4.5 million new jobs since Election Day, and we have lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels in history. We have brought African American and Hispanic American poverty levels to their lowest point ever recorded. There has never been a better time for the American worker. We passed a massive tax cut for Missouri workers and for the United States, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. And to protect your rights and your freedoms, we overcame the Democrat smear campaign and confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And you saw what happened on Friday, also. We had great jobs numbers, but we also had something else. The accuser of Brett Kavanaugh, a man who is a fine man, the accuser admitted she never met him, she never saw him, he never touched her, talked to her, he had nothing to do with her, she made up the story, it was false accusations, it was a scam, it was fake, it was all fake. And you know, when that came about, people were calling for him to immediately get out. Think of that. Think if he would have done that, and then we found out that it was all false accusations. False statements. A made-up story. And let's look at the rest of them, please. Let's look at the rest of them. Because that man suffered. You know, when I decided it was going to be him, and it was early, because honestly for 10 years I've been hearing about a man named Judge Brett Kavanaugh -- I've been hearing about him for a long time, and they all said he's fantastic, intellectually, he's a great scholar, and he will someday be on the Supreme Court. Now, that was 10 years ago. Can you believe it? And little did I think I'd be the one appointing him. But I'll never forget, Rush. I'll never forget this, Rush. I brought him to the White House. And I said, Judge, then judge, now justice. I said, Judge Kavanaugh, I want to congratulate you. I'm choosing you to serve on the United States Supreme Court. And he said, this is the greatest honor of my life. I would like to thank you, Mr. President. And I said, Judge, by the way, just so you know, this is going to go so quick, this is going to be so easy. You have led such an incredible, exemplary life. It's going to go so fast. No problem. And then it began. And then it began. And he hung in there, and I hung in there, too, by the way. I hung in there, too. False accusations. False accusations. They want to ruin a man or a woman. Ruin a man. And it was headed up all by the Democrats, all by the Democrats, right? All by the Democrats. Dianne Feinstein, with did you leak. Our great, great, brave, brave soldier from Vietnam, except he never saw Vietnam. Da Nang Dick, you know, Da Nang. He's from Da Nang. We charged up the hill, soldiers were falling left and right, but I was protecting them, I was there. Except he never saw Vietnam. And then he gets up and he says, we demand honesty. We demand the truth. Can you believe this? This can only happen to us. This can only happen to us. In any event, we energized the Republican Party with that. The Democrats overplayed their hand, just as they overplayed their hand with a lot of things. They overplayed their -- like the Russia nonsense. Russia. Russia did it. It was Russia. They used it as an excuse by the Democrats for losing an election that they should have won because they have a big advantage in the Electoral College. Remember they used to say, there is no way for Donald Trump to get 270. And they were right. We got to 306. They were right. We got 306. They used that as an excuse. And they always overplay their hand. Got some bad people. And you have some good people over there, too, I have to be honest, but you got some bad people. The contrast in this election could not be more clear. Democrats produce mobs. That's what's happened. Republicans produce jobs. We are proudly joined by many terrific Missouri Republicans, including tonight your great governor, done a fantastic job, Mike Parson. Mike? And Mrs. Parson. Great job. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. Great job, Mike. And members of Congress, one of them stopped Washington about three weeks ago when he started doing his little auction deal, right? Billy. Does anybody know Billy Long? I have never heard an auctioneer so good. I've never an auctioneer as good. But he's a great congressman, more importantly. And he loves the people of this state. And he loves your state. Billy Long, Congressman. Billy. Great guy. Did everybody see that, a month ago? He started doing the auction thing. Everybody -- and these were hardened political people. They've heard it all. And they just stopped in their tracks. They said, what the hell is that? And it was our friend, Billy. It was amazing. And another congressman from Missouri, always there for us, just like Billy, somebody that's been there for the tax cuts, and there for regulation, and there for right to try, right to try. You know what right to try is, big thing, big deal. It's a big deal. And he was there, along with some really great people in the Republican Party to take care of our vets, to give them choice for the first time in 44 years. They've been trying for 44 years. Congressman Jason Smith, thank you, Jason. If you don't want to be saying the words ""Speaker of the House Pelosi"" for the next two years... ... get out and vote for Billy and Jason. They don't really need your vote, but get out and do it anyway because, wow, that would be a story. We don't want to be complacent. We don't want to be -- they are great people, so get out and vote for your congressmen and women. Tomorrow, the people of Missouri are going to elect a truly outstanding new senator. Josh Hawley will be a tireless champion for the great people of Missouri. He is great on jobs. He is great on cutting taxes. And there is nobody tougher on crime. He shares your values, and he will always support our military, our vets, and our great law enforcement. Josh is running against an extreme liberal Democrat named Claire McCaskill. She got lucky the last time. She got lucky the last time. She was way down the last time, and somebody running, it didn't look -- it didn't look too good. She got a little bit -- she got a pass. Let's put it that way. She got a pass. It was a sad thing that happened. That whole thing was a sad thing in many ways. Anyway, she got in. And now Josh is actually up slightly in the polls. Just came out. But she was going down, and then she said, the Democrats are crazy, and I said, that's genius for getting -- I give her credit for that. She's taking a lot of heat, but she'll patch it up over one lunch a day after the election, if she wins. But I hope that's not going to -- if she doesn't win, then she's going to have long-term trouble. But she said the Democrats are crazy, and then she said, I agree with our president on border security. I agree. All of a sudden, she agrees with me. I'm in office for almost two years. All of a sudden she's agreeing. Look, folks. Just so you understand, so the election is tomorrow, Tuesday. On Wednesday, she will no longer agree with me on border security. No longer. No longer. A vote for Claire McCaskill is a vote for Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, and the legendary Maxine Waters. And more important, it's a vote for their horrible socialist agenda. Claire McCaskill will be a disaster for jobs, for your families, for your state. And again, on Wednesday, she will no longer remember anything she said, and she will never, ever vote for us on the big things where we need her vote, ever. Just like she didn't vote for Judge Kavanaugh, she's not going to vote for us, and that's the way it is. It's very simple. And while I very much appreciate her great support out of nowhere along the border, it disappears on Wednesday morning. Claire voted against middle-class tax cuts. She voted against Neil Gorsuch. And Claire joined the Democrat mob in voting against Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Claire McCaskill has one of the most open-border voting records in all of Congress. Claire McCaskill voted no on Kate's law, and she voted no on enhanced vetting for refugees. Let's just let them in. Let them in. Let them in. And Claire voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities. She would rather protect criminal aliens than American citizens, which is why she needs to be voted out of office tomorrow, please. If you want jobs, and if you want safety, you have only one choice. A young, talented man who's going to -- I tell you, I really believe this, he's going to go down as one of our great senators, Josh Hawley. Josh, come on up, Josh. Wow. Thank you. Thank you very much. Isn't it incredible to have President Donald Trump in southeast Missouri? You know, Senator Claire McCaskill said that she could give up a few votes in the Bootheel, did you hear that? I'll bet she regrets it now. President Trump won the state of Missouri by 20 points. How about that? Twenty points. And he has delivered for this state. But, you know, you would think -- you would think with a record like the president's that the career politicians in Washington, D.C., would get the message. But Claire McCaskill sure hasn't. She hasn't heard a word you said in 2016. President Trump has been fighting to put pro-Constitution, pro-America judges on the bench like Brett Kavanaugh. But Claire McCaskill voted no. President Trump is securing our border, but Claire McCaskill -- Claire McCaskill is sponsoring the most radical open borders bill in the history of the United States Congress. She voted for amnesty. She voted for amnesty. She has called the border wall embarrassing. That's her word. And she's mocked the president for wanting to have it. Does that represent us? I don't think so. President Trump lowered your taxes, but Claire McCaskill voted no. She's voted to raise your taxes over 200 times and President Trump has fought to roll back regulations on our family farms and family businesses, like the waters of the United States rule. It's gone because of him. But Claire McCaskill -- Claire McCaskill voted for every far-left environmentalist regulation the Obama administration could dream up. She even voted to keep the waters of the United States rule. But, you know, I have to say, I mean, maybe Senator McCaskill's record shouldn't be such a surprise, because she did say that she thought the reason President Trump got elected was because of the Russians. That's what she said. She told a journalist that, because of the Russians. What she doesn't realize is, President Trump got elected because of the Missourians. And we're going to re-elect him. You know, the more -- that's right.  You know, the more I listen to Claire McCaskill, the more she reminds me of another career politician that President Trump defeated in 2016. The person -- the person that Claire McCaskill thought should be president. Do you know who I'm talking about, Hillary Rodham Clinton? Yeah, yeah. Amazing. Amazing.  Senator McCaskill has spent a lifetime in politics, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill has made a boatload in federal money, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill voted for amnesty, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill is for open borders, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill is for activist liberal judges, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill even has a phony foundation that makes millions of dollars a year and pays nothing in taxes, just like Hillary. Tell you what. Senator McCaskill -- Senator McCaskill said that we all ought to call Hillary Madam President. Well, tomorrow, tomorrow, we're going to call Senator McCaskill fired. Thank you very much. God bless you. That's great. So, everybody, get out and vote for Josh Hawley tomorrow. So important. He will be one of the leaders of the Senate in a short period of time. He's a very special person. And he will never, ever let you down. I know that about him. If Democrats gain power on Tuesday, one of their very first projects will be a socialist takeover of American health care. You know what's happening. And your taxes are going to triple, maybe quadruple. You're not going to be happy. I know you well. The Democrat plan would obliterate Obamacare. It will also -- which is good -- but leave the bad parts behind. It will destroy Medicare. And by the way, did you notice we got rid of the individual mandate in Obamacare, right? Nobody talks about that. Nobody talks about that. Nobody talks about the individual mandate, most unpopular thing, and it's going to be gone. Soon, Obamacare will be gone. We actually had it. We missed one vote, one vote, one vote. That was a little bit of a surprise to us at 2 o'clock in the morning. One vote. But we didn't get any Democrat votes. If Claire McCaskill, we would have repealed it and replaced it. But essentially, it's being obliterated anyway, and it's going to be -- you're going to have great, great advantages with health care when you see what we're doing. We want to -- watch, if they win, they will eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 411,000 Missouri seniors. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors, who earned it, and who, by the way, have paid for it. You know that, right? You know that. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always. We are protecting patients. The Democrats' plan to destroy health care also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. Somehow that doesn't work well in Missouri. It's commonsense people, by the way. Common -- you know it's all about common sense. You know that. They say, are you a conservative? I say, yeah, I'm conservative, but you know what I really -- it's common sense. Most of it's all commonsense, folks. It's common sense. You know what it's called? It's called we have to do what's right. We have to have borders. Without borders, we don't have a country. We have to do what's right. We can't let foreign nations take advantage of -- you know, they've been taken -- for years and years, taking advantage of us. We can't allow it to happen. It's not going to happen anymore. We can't protect rich nations, really, really successful rich nations. We protect them, and they don't pay us for the protection, or they pay us a small fraction. It's not fair. And I tell them, sorry, it's not fair, and we're working it out. You're talking about a lot of money. You're talking about a lot of money. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws and violate our borders. And they want to sign them up for free welfare, free health care, free education, and most importantly, they want to give them the right to vote. I can't imagine why. Democrats' immigration policies are extreme, dangerous, reckless, and insane. They support catch-and-release. They want to free criminal aliens. They want no protections for American workers and taxpayers. And they want totally open borders, which means crime will pour into our country. Illegal immigration costs our country more than $100 billion every year, and that's more than the "
"There is something going on, Ohio, that they're not talking about. There's something going on. You look at this gigantic room and there are many more people outside trying to get in. Should we let them in or not? The problem is we don't have the room to let them in. Thousands of people outside, there is something going on. There's an electricity like people have not seen since a date 2016 November. A lot of things are going on. Get out and vote. Hello, Ohio. I love Ohio. Remember I heard it over and over again -- you cannot win, right? You cannot win, everything goes through Ohio. You cannot win without the great state of Ohio, so we won Ohio easily, easily. We won Ohio together and we won the whole thing and I'm thrilled to be in Cleveland, Ohio, where we had a wonderful convention. And I'm with thousands of hardworking, great, great American patriots. Thank you for being here, we appreciate it. This is our final day, two stops after this. I did a lot of stops, I saw a lot of people. I saw a lot of Make America Great Again hats, a lot of hats. I saw a lot of spirit, I saw a lot of spirit like this country hasn't seen. We have -- what we've done -- this is the greatest political movement of all time in this country. And it's an incredible time in America -- jobs are soaring, wages are rising, poverty is plummeting and more Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our nation. Think of that. How do we lose that -- how do we lose that in a debate? More people are working today than ever before, somehow whenever they do pick their far left candidate, I think we're going to do OK. We have a lot of good soundbites. Our military is stronger than ever, we have a lot of great, great soundbites. Tomorrow the people of Ohio are going to elect Mike DeWine and a Republican Congress to keep America's economic boom surging full speed ahead. Mike DeWine, boy he is fighting, he's great. And I know his opponent, he's a disaster. I -- look, I'm just -- you know, there are some Democrats, they're fine. This guy Cordray is a bad guy, he's not a good person, he's hurt a lot of people. What he's done to people is a disgrace, and I hope he loses for two reasons. Number one, Mike DeWine is a -- he's going to be a great Governor, and Cordray a bad person who will do a terrible job, OK. Now that I have that out of my system, let's go back. It's true, it's true, he's a bad person. Republicans have -- we actually essentially fired him, so I -- mean -- I know a lot about him. You're fired. Republicans have created the best economy in the history of our country and the hottest jobs market -- well, look, you take a look. Take a look what's happened. This is the hottest place economically anywhere in the world right now. When I have some wonderful leaders of countries -- Presidents, Prime Ministers, Kings, Queens, some dictators but we don't mention that... the first thing they say to me is congratulations, Mr. President, you have the hottest economic nation anywhere in the world, congratulations. And Ohio sees it just about better than anybody because you see the car companies back, the car companies expanding, other companies are coming back. Remember, they were all leaving, now they're all coming back, folks. They're all coming back. Just like I said, but I did mislead you in one way and I apologize. I didn't know we could do it this fast, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't know we could do it this quickly. It's gone very quickly. If I would have said that out on the campaign trail, I would have been greeted with the worst headlines. They would have said how dare he make those statements. But what we've done in less than two years, no President or administration in its first two years has done anywhere near what this administration has done and they know it -- and they know it. But everything we have created and achieved is at stake on Election Day, it is. If the radical Democrats take power, they will take a wrecking ball to our economy and to our future -- a wrecking ball. When you enter the voting booth on Tuesday, you will be making a simple choice -- a vote for Republicans is a vote to continue our extraordinary prosperity, our extraordinary journey together. It's a journey that we made together -- not me, all of us together. A vote for Democrats is a vote to bring this economic boom crashing to a sudden halt. The Democrat agenda is a socialist nightmare for our country. The Republican agenda is the American dream, and that's what we're doing, we're bringing back the American dream. In the last month alone, we added 250,000 jobs -- and this is -- these are beautiful, brand new, spanking new jobs in the month of October. We brought back nearly half a million people, and we brought them into the work force and they are so happy. The unemployment rate is the lowest level in 50 years. You saw on Friday, you saw the numbers were announced -- those numbers were announced. Good timing with all those great economic numbers that came out. Do you think the media wanted to maybe delay them to Wednesday? Would you say they would have been happy? They would have been happy if they could have delayed them, announced the numbers the day after the election. No, they came out at a good time. Friday numbers, those were phenomenal numbers. You haven't seen numbers like that in a long time, many years. We've created 4.5 million new jobs since election day... and we have lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. African-American, Hispanic-American, Asian-American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels in history. Jobless claims in Ohio have fallen to their lowest level ever recorded. We're bringing the jobs all bad. They're coming back. A lot of them are coming back to Ohio. We sort of tell them, ""hey, how about Ohio? How about going to Ohio? Household income for Ohio families has reached the highest level in the history of your state, and we have put your coal miners and your steel workers back to work. We passed a massive tax cut, massive for Ohio workers, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. We got to win the House to do that, by the way. Just put it in your heads. Put it into your heads when you're getting ready to vote, while you're voting. Who has already voted? Oh, so this is very much a Tuesday state. I found that with mine. I remember they said, ""well, the people are sort of holding for Tuesday,"" and did you show up on Tuesday. So ready? Who is going to vote on Tuesday? OK. Don't forget. Don't forget. You know, the midterm elections used to be like boring, didn't they? Do you even remember what they were? People would say midterms. They say, ""what is that? What is it,"" right? Now it's like the hottest thing. These guys are making a fortune because of me and you. But it's true. It's true. I mean, whoever even heard of midterms? I don't even know what it is. I've had a lot of people say, ""I don't know what midterm is, but now I'm watching every single minute and I'm going out to vote."" But the key is you have to go out to vote because in a sense I am on the ticket. You got to go out to vote. And you have to protect your rights and your freedoms. We overcame the Democrat's smear campaign and confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. The contrast in this election could not be more clear. Democrats produce mobs. Republicans produce jobs. If crying Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, and... and a legendary Maxine Waters... gained a majority, they will try to raise your taxes, restore job killing regulations, shutdown your coal mines and your steel mills. That's what's going to happen. Take away your healthcare. Your healthcare, you could forget it. You're going to live in a socialist world, and put illegal aliens before American citizens. The people of Ohio are not too happy. Not too happy. I know Ohio well. I don't know if you know I used to work in Ohio for summers with my father on a job we had. Cincinnati, Ohio. I worked for a couple of summers, and I loved it. I loved it. I loved it. And I won't tell you, but I used to -- I shouldn't say that in this room, but I on occasion would be known to sneak into Kentucky because I liked Kentucky. I like Kentucky for all the wrong reasons, but I like Kentucky. I liked it. I had a good time in Cincinnati, Ohio. I learned a lot. I learned a lot in Cincinnati, Ohio, and I love Ohio. Maybe that's why we won it by so much, remember? Everything goes through Ohio. I love the people of Ohio. The Democrat platform is a 2018 socialism, open borders edict. Democrats are inviting caravan after caravan -- isn't that nice -- of illegal aliens to flood into our country and overwhelm your communities. That's what's happened. Have you seen the pictures? And they try and play it down like it's not that many. It's not that many people. You know, you're looking at a bridge with thousands and thousands. We're building the wall, though. We're building the wall. Don't worry. We've already started. $1.6 billion, we've already started. Yes, we've started. We want to do it at one time. Although, barbed wire looks like it's going to be very effective, too. With soldiers standing in front of it. By the way, how good does our military look? Doesn't it look good? If you want more caravans and more crime, vote Democrat. If you want strong borders and safe communities, vote Republican. Now, I have no idea where they are in this incredible room. I don't know. Maybe they're outside. They got stuck outside with a lot of people, but we are thrilled to be joined today by many terrific Ohio Republican members of Congress. Here's a guy I love because he's a champion. Years, the NCAA champion in wrestling, his record is crazy like 128 and one -- some crazy record. And you know why? Not because of just the muscle. It's because of this right here, because of this. This muscle, that's your most important right here. Lot of strong people, but if you don't have this it doesn't matter. Congressman Jim Jordan, where is he? He's a champ. I love him defending me on television, he is a bulldog. He doesn't give a damn -- boom, boom, boom, point after point. Right? He's a champ. Say something. Thank you. The -- the -- love you, too. So the -- the President -- the President is exactly right, the choice tomorrow could not be more clear. The left has gone completely crazy, they applaud Kaepernick when he disrespects the flag, they cheer on Governor Cuomo when he says America was never that great and they embrace Maxine Waters when she says go out and harass anyone who supports our President. Contrast that -- contrast that with the record in the 21 months under the President's leadership. Regulations -- regulations reduced, taxes cut, economy growing at four percent, lowest unemployment in 50 years, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh all in the court, out of that crazy Iran deal, the -- the embassy's in Jerusalem, the hostages are home from North Korea and oh by the way, there's a new NAFTA agreement. That is the choice tomorrow. Go vote Republican tomorrow. God bless you all, thank you Mr. President. Thank you, Jim. Champion -- he's a champion. One of the greats. He's one of the best. Congressman Bill Johnson -- Bill... These are great people -- these are great people. They help us so much with so many -- including the tax cuts and regulations and we wouldn't get by without them. It's Ohio. Congressman Bob Gibbs -- Bob... Great guy. Congressman Warren Davidson... Dave Joyce, where is Dave? Thank you Dave, great job. They do -- these are great people. And our Republican nominee for Ohio's 16th Congressional District, you know him very well, Anthony Gonzalez. I hear his poll numbers are looking very good, is that right fellas? Looking good, it's looking good? I hear it's looking good. And also, a special person -- and he was going to make his way up, I said do this, don't even think about it, just keep campaigning because he's doing fantastic. He's only been there for a short while, Troy Balderson, he's respected by everybody, Troy Balderson. Troy is in there working, I said just stay there and campaign. Don't take any chances. Troy Balderson, vote for him. If you don't want to be saying the words Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi for the next two years, get out and vote for a Republican House, so important. And we're also grateful to be joined by somebody who's really worked hard -- his whole life he's worked hard, he gets it. He's a wonderful human being, he's strong, he's tough, he doesn't take no for an answer, he's run I hear a really good campaign, not easy. It's not easy, nothing's easy, but he is somebody that -- he gets it and you're going to be so happy. You're going to be so happy, so thrilled -- hopefully your next Senator Jim Renacci. Well thank you, Mr. President. Listen, it was just two years ago that I welcomed you here at the Ag Center -- it was Mr. Trump at that time, and look at what he's done for Ohio -- look at what he's done for Ohio. Look, the Buckeye State loves you, we love what you're doing -- jobs growing, economy's up, unemployment down, wages are up, and Sherrod Brown's going to be gone tomorrow. So again, thank you all, we've been fighting. The polls are narrowing, we got a good poll today, shows we've crossed over and we're winning. Let's make it happen tomorrow, get out and vote, thank you. He's a fighter, he's a fighter, real fighter. Be a tremendous Senator. Now, I don't know -- they'll say this is nepotism, but the truth is she's a very, very -- you're not allowed to use the word beautiful anymore when you talk about women, you're not allowed, no no. It's -- it's politically incorrect. No no, it's politically -- I will never call a woman beautiful again, and every man here -- every man here, raise your hand, you will never, ever say your wife, your girlfriend, anybody is beautiful, right? So I'm not allowed to say it because -- because it's my daughter Ivanka, but she's really smart and she's here. Should I bring her up? Come on. Ivanka, come up. Wow, wow. Hi, Ohio. That was some introduction. It is always, always, always an honor to be here and I am so proud what we're all here fighting for. This President, my father, promised that he would fight to give you all a voice. He promised that he would fight for the forgotten men and women of America and he is fighting hard. I see it every single day, and the fight is paying off. Wages are rising, unemployment is at historic low rates across almost every single category, people are coming off the sidelines and back into the economy and realizing the opportunity of the American dream. In October alone, 250,000 people entered the work force. Incredible. So what tomorrow is all about is keeping that going. This is the golden era of economic opportunity, of prosperity and of security, and that's what we're all fighting for. Thank you for having me here, thank you Ohio, we love you. OK, all right. I never said she was beautiful, but she was smart. I'll tell you what, always like a great student -- always a great student. And I remember when she graduated from the Wharton School of Finance, some of her classmates came up and said -- I don't know if I like this, they said Mr. Trump, she doesn't even try and she gets good marks, she gets these great marks. And there's something OK about that, too, but she has been a wonderful daughter, I have to tell you. She's been a wonderful, wonderful daughter, and her big thing is creating jobs in our country. She's done it so much. She goes all over, she meets with companies, she's creating five, six million -- workforce, where they're training people that have never done this, and I think they're up to almost six million people right now being trained by the companies, cause the companies can do it better than the government, right? And it's more specific. So she has been incredible. Thank you, Ivanka. Finally, tomorrow the people of Ohio are going to elect an outstanding new Governor and Lieutenant Governor. They got together, they were smart. That was pretty smart, right? They got together, they went head-to-head, and then all of a sudden they got together. How smart, we should see more of that in this country, shouldn't we? Think of it. Mike DeWine and Jon Husted, they got together, the two top candidates, they called it a merger. Mike DeWine has spent his entire life fighting for Ohio families. He loves this state. He will keep your jobs going way up, and you know what? I'll work hard either way, but it helps when you have a Governor who somebody likes that happens to be President, don't you think? You know? Maybe you take his call instead of not taking his call when they need help for something and we help a lot. But he's working on your taxes and always -- he wants those taxes to go way down, and they will be because we have so much business coming in. And he will always support our brave military. He loves our veterans, he loves our military and he loves our law enforcement. Mike's opponent, who was in my administration for a short while, who was by the way terrible -- terrible, is a far left radical socialist named Richard Cordray, and not a good person. He was hand-picked and he's a disciple of Elizabeth Warren, who I can no longer call Pocahontas because she has no Indian blood. She has no Indian blood. I used to go around saying I have more Indian blood than you do, and I have none, and I was right. I mean the only bad thing about that is that I can't really, legitimately call her Pocahontas anymore because the press will say I'm misrepresenting, right? OK, OK, I'll call her Pocahontas anyway, right? We won't give up that name. That name is -- that name is too good to give up. It's too good. But this Cordray guy literally -- she grabbed him and put him there -- spent the last six years in Washington crushing people, crushing community banks, destroying small businesses and destroying jobs. He also, in a big scandal, spent nearly $250 million of federal money to renovate a headquarters agency that the government doesn't even own. It's a lease. And more than twice what the entire building was worth, and the escalators or the elevators, I hear, cost -- they're the most expensive elevators in the history of the world, let's put it that way. They're the most expensive elevators. I heard the price. I said, ""That doesn't sound right."" Now, Cordray wants to bring his socialist, job-killing crusade, and destroy the state of Ohio. Cordray's anti-worker -- and he is anti-worker, and he's anti-business -- extremism will drive your state into poverty. And we have another one like this in the state of Florida. I don't even know if he's as bad as Cordray, you want to know the truth. He just doesn't know what the hell he's doing. This one does. And he's going to drive your taxes right through the roof. Cordray will destroy Ohio, and destroy its miners and its steelworkers, and everybody else. Mark my words. I hope I don't have to come back, because that means a bad thing happened tomorrow. If you want a safe and prosperous future for Ohio, vote for Mike DeWine. Come on up, Mike. Come on up.  Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, thank you for being back in Ohio. I am very grateful for your support, and I'm also very grateful, as we all are, for 82 conservative federal judges that are now on the bench. I'm told that there are 30 more coming that will be confirmed in not-too-distant future. That is an amazing legacy, Mr. President. This race -- I need your help tomorrow. This race is about whether we go back, or whether we go forward. Richard Cordray and Ted Strickland took us back. Eight years ago, we lost over 400,000 jobs. We've regained those jobs today. We've added 150,000 more and, Mr. President, statistic that came out last week showed because of good Republican leadership and your tax cut, Ohio had its best year in growing jobs in 21 years. So my wife, Fran, and I, John Houston and Tina, we will continue to work until the polls close at 7:30 tomorrow night. Help us get this victory to keep Ohio growing, to keep Ohio moving onward. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. He's a good man. I just say that's a good man who loves you and he's going to take good care. If Democrats gained power on Tuesday, one of their very first projects will be a socialist takeover of American healthcare. You know that. That's why the countries that have those plans, whenever somebody has a couple of bucks in their pocket gets sick, they come to the United States to have the operation or to get better. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare advantage for almost 900,000 Ohio seniors who depend on it. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it and, by the way, who paid for it. They paid for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with preexisting conditions, always, always. Democrats plan to destroy healthcare, also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. How do you like that Ohio? Does Ohio like that? I don't think so. We know the people of Ohio too well. As we speak, Democrats are open encouraging millions of illegal aliens to violate our law and break into our country, and they want to sign them up for free welfare, free healthcare, free education, and, of course, the right to vote, the right to vote! And it's the right to vote that they like the best. They want them to be able to vote. There's only one way to end this lawless assault on our dignity, our sovereignty, and on our borders, and that's by voting tomorrow Republican. Illegal immigration costs our country more than $100 billion every single year, and that's more than the budget of Ohio, Montana, and Wyoming combined, all places I've been. We have great races in those places. I think you're going to see some very good results. Not only do the Democrat's open border policies drain our Treasury, but they endanger every American community and endanger them like you wouldn't believe. Nearly 100 percent of the heroin coming into the United States enters through the southern border along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth, and a substantial portion of deadly fentanyl. These drugs kill more than 70,000 Americans a year, destroy hundreds of thousands of lives, and by the way, Ohio knows it better than almost any other state in the union. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 127,000 -- think of that. This is -- they want to fire them. They don't want ICE. Even Jim Jordan would be afraid of some of these ICE people, right? Maybe not. No, no. He's not -- he's not a good example, but maybe. But they're tough and they're strong and they're patriots like him. But they're patriots. So listen to this 127,000 aliens with criminal records were thrown out last year or put in prison by ICE who else is going to do that? Who else? Including those charged or convicted of approximately 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes, and 1,800 homicides. Other than that, you know, they're very nice people, very nice people. Other than that, they're very fine people. Hey, by the way, you think we're letting that caravan come into this country, you can forget it. But the Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want America to be a giant sanctuary city for drug dealers, predators, and blood thirsty MS-13 killers. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law biding Americans, not criminal aliens. Republicans will always stand with the heroes of ICE, border patrol, and your great law enforcement, and you really do have great law enforcement in this state. Thank you all. Thank you. This election is about safety and this election is about prosperity. For years you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth, shutter our factories, and steal our jobs like we're babies -- like we're little babies. But those days are over, Ohio. Because as everybody is seeing and as everybody is pointing out even to them back there, America is respected again. America is respected. We've added nearly half a million manufacturing jobs since the election. Last month alone, we added another 32,000 manufacturing jobs. One month -- that's 1,000 new manufacturing jobs every single day. And you remember the previous administration -- I'm being nice. The previous administration said manufacturing jobs will never come back to this country, right? And I used to say, ""what does he mean by that one?"" They're never coming back. He said you'd need a magic wand. Well, we found the magic wand. We found it. I recently announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal, one of the worst trade deals every made in the history of the world, with and incredible, brand new U.S-Mexico-Canada agreement. It's all done. The USMCA is a giant victory for Ohio farmers and factory workers, a giant victory, a giant victory. You're not going to have your companies leaving anymore, firing everybody, moving to Mexico or Canada, sending their product in here tax free. We end up with empty factories and no jobs. That's not happening anymore. We have taken historic action to bring back American jobs by cracking down on China's very abusive, very unfair trade practices, and we are doing very well I want to tell you. They want to make a deal and that could happen. That could happen. You know, we're right now taxing them on $250 billion worth of goods that they're sending to us. They're not happy, but they want to make a deal. Could -- really it could go much higher. We could add another two -- I guess we could add another -- I won't even say it. You know what it'll be a big story if I say it. Should I say it? I'm not going to say it. If I say it, it's a big story. If we say it, it's a big story. All right, let's put it this way. It's a lot of money left, but you know what? I have a great relationship with President Xi of China, and I think we have a real good chance of working something out that's a great deal for us and works for everybody. And if we don't, I'll be honest. I'm extremely happy with our position, extremely. After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country and we are doing it with American steel and American aluminum. Thanks to our tariffs and taxes and trade policies which are tough, American steel mills are roaring back to life. Do you see it? Do you believe it? It's one of the biggest business stories. They don't like to report it, but these are minor details. I'm reporting it, OK? They're roaring back to life. They were dead. The steel industry was very close to being over the cliff dead. It was hanging on by a thread -- by a whisker, and they are coming back. It's one of the really great business stories of the year because I stopped and I tax the dumping of garbage steel that they're dumping all over our country, putting our steel mills out of business. And we're going to get the iron ore and the miners are going to get it for them, and it's going to come from places like Minnesota where they have the finest in the world, and it's going to come down into Ohio and so many other places because right here in Ohio, Nucor -- great company, big, big, but steel was going the wrong way -- has just announced an $85 million upgrade in Marion. Charter Steel announced a new $150 million steel mill in Cuyahoga Heights. JSW Steel -- by the way, you know this is sort of a  because you haven't had an announcement like this is 25 years, 30 years, and some cases it's brand new. They're not even doing the renovation deal. They're doing brand new. JSW Steel is restarting the furnace and investing $500 million in Mingo Junction. And by the way, this is just what's happening to Ohio. This is going on all over the country. And Cleveland-Cliffs announced a new $700 million plant going to start right away in Toledo, Ohio. Toledo. Pretty amazing. Everyday is promises made, promises kept. That's what it is. Promises made, promises kept. You know, I've actually kept more promises than I've made. When did you ever hear that from a politician? Maybe never. Never. So I've done things that we never even talked about on the campaign. Many, many things. We've also taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs. You see what's going on. And Pfizer and Novartis and a lot of the big companies agreed to reduce their prices after I cut. I called them up and they were great. They were great. They reduced their prices! Did you ever hear what president calls a drug company, ""I'd like you to reduce your prices to ."" You think Hillary would do that? I don't think so. I don't think so. We have just introduced new affordable healthcare plans that are really incredible, lower priced than this horrible Obamacare, which we really have decimated and kept your premiums down by doing it, and we got rid of the individual mandate that costs nearly 60 percent. You have to see this. The individual mandate -- how many people are happy that we cut out the individual mandate? The worst part of Obamacare, and we're working very hard. We're going to be the ones that solve the healthcare. We have already come close to doing it. We passed Veterans Choice giving our veterans the right to see a doctor... a private doctor right down the road instead of waiting for two, three, four weeks, instead of waiting for two months. What happened was horrible. And now you see a private doctor, we pay for the costs of that private doctor, and our veterans are taken care of immediately. They don't have to wait in line. They've been trying to do that for over 40 years. I though it was my idea until I went back. I said, ""I have a great idea. We're going to have private doctors take care of our vets because they can't wait three, four, five weeks."" And my people said, ""sir, we've been trying to do that for 40 years."" I said, ""you know what? I'm good at getting approvals. Let's go get it."" And we got it! We got it. Right? We got it. Our vets are being taken care of first time. They don't have to wait in line. If they see a wait, they go run down to that doctor. You know, it's interesting. We save -- it's so unimportant compared to taking care of our vets -- but secondarily, we save a lot of money. We save a lot of money because we have vets that go in and they're not badly ill, not badly -- not a big problem. It takes so long to see a doctor they end up being terminally ill and it's a horrible thing. Now they take care of it right away. I love it. And we also passed the VA Accountability Law to ensure anyone who mistreats our veterans can be held accountable. You're fired! Get out! Get out! We secured $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States Military stronger than it's ever been before. And thanks to our $2 billion investment in new armored vehicle workers at the legendary tank plant in Lima -- Lima, Ohio. Where are they? Do you have any of those? They're very happy people. Where are they? Yes. They're very happy. Lima, Ohio are now back on the job churning out the best tank anywhere in the world, the M1 Abrams tank, so the best anywhere in the world, best in the world. At my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American Armed Forces, called the Space Force. Very important. And I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. We have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And it wasn't supposed to be built, they thought, for 20 years. But I got it built in three months so we saved $1 billion, OK. It's already open. We took a building already located in one of our sights, which we had for nothing, we renovated it, it costs $500,000 or less. And we have a beautiful embassy. It was supposed to cost $1.1 billion. I think it's better, because the location we have is better than the location we had to buy for a fortune. So anyway, little things, little things. That's called real estate, right. It's already open, it's already open. Together, we have made extraordinary progress, and we are just getting started. This is the greatest political movement in the history of our country, and it's your movement. It's all of us together. It's your movement, not mine. It's your movement. And you got to keep the movement going tomorrow, because if we don't do reasonably well -- you know we're at a disadvantage because they say that two times in many, many, many years, they had positive results, whoever's in the White House, for whatever reason. But nobody in the White House has ever had the greatest economy in the history of our country. No"
"Wow. Wow. Wow.  Thank you very much, Georgia. This is like being at a Georgia football game. This is incredible. Wow. Man. I only wish the media was back about 200 yards so that all those people behind them could see. And we have 15,000 people in a different location. I think Brian's going to do very well. Going to do very well. I'm thrilled to be back in this great state that, by the way, we won very easily in 2016. With thousands of hard-working and wonderful American patriots. And that's what you are. In just two days, the people of Georgia are going to elect Brian Kemp... as your next governor to protect your jobs, defend your borders, fight for your values and continue to make America great again. This is one of the most important elections of our lifetime. This is a very important election. I wouldn't say it's as important as 2016, but it's right up there. It's right up there. It really is. It's become so incredible and there is electricity in the air like I haven't seen since the 2016 big victory that we all had together. Incredible electricity. And in fact, speaking of that, could I ask -- look at this. It's like the Academy Awards. Look at how many cameras. Could I ask you to turn around and shoot? They don't have to do this with other celebrities when they come here that don't have very big crowds. Look at the people back there. Shoot it. You've got to shoot it. Turn around. Turn around. Turn the cameras around. They never turn them around, folks. They never turn them around. They never turn them around. This crowd goes way, way, way back into the field. This is incredible. This is incredible and I really wish the fake news media would show the crowds because they don't do it. They always go, Donald Trump gave a speech today in front of a nice crowd. There have never been crowds like this, just so you understand, in the history of politics. You've never had crowds like this for midterm elections. There's never been crowds like this. But you know, all the people, a lot of them watching on television, they get great ratings, at least this speech does. I can't say about the other ones because they don't get great ratings, but you know what? They get it because they hear the noise. You can't duplicate when you have 20,000, 25,000, 30,000 people, you can't duplicate that sound with 500 people like that are showing up to other rallies. You know, for two years, we had -- we've had big crowds from the beginning, right? And by the way, you remember, we never left and it's we not me. It's we. We're apart. We're all the same. We. We never left center stage. You know what that means, right? We were always in first place and then we went against crooked Hillary and we did very well there also But we never left center stage.  What a group. What a group. You're great people. You're great people. I want to tell you, you built this country, folks. You built this country. You're great people. But we never did. We never left center stage. Every debate, I was right in the middle. That meant you always had the highest number. You always had the highest number. You were always at -- and I always insisted on having an odd number in the debate. Do you know why? Because I wanted to be center. I didn't want there to be two people center, right? Does that make ... Does that make sense? It makes sense. And during our rallies, we always had these massive, the biggest -- the biggest they've ever seen. And I always used to say, ""Turn the camera around and show."" They never did because they're fake news. They don't want to show. And I'd always say, ""Turn the camera around."" And I'll never forget. I went through four or five and they just wouldn't show these massive crowds from the very beginning, right? Right from the beginning. And then what happened is there were some protesters in one rally, like two people that live in a basement of their parents' house. And I thought the camera was very new and you couldn't change them. You know, they're very rigid. There's steel stuff and you couldn't change them. You couldn't turn the. And then we had a little protest in the back corner which was impossible for a camera to see. And those cameras, they looked like pretzels the way they turned. When they saw trouble, they were able to turn, but that's the way the press treats us and I hope you show the real crowd that's here today. And I hope you show ... And I hope you show the thousands of people that are in other part of the airport watching this on television. Thousands and thousands of additional people. They'll say, ""President Trump and former president Obama had wonderful crowds."" Let's sort of -- let's sort of come in. But this election will decide whether we build on this extraordinary prosperity that we've created. Did you see the numbers on Friday? Did you see those numbers? Or whether we let the radical Democrats take a giant wrecking ball to our economy and to our future. America now has the best economy in the history of our country. And it can be destroyed very quickly. That's why you have to get to the polls. In the last month alone, we added 250,000 jobs and that is despite the hurricane, which also hit a chunk of Georgia. Those Georgia farmers, I met with them. I was with Sonny Perdue... our great Agricultural Secretary and I met with a lot of the farmers and these are great people. I'll never forget it, actually. These are great, great people and one of them said, ""Sir, I've been growing cotton for 25 years. This is the best crop I've ever grown. I had some problems over the last two or three years, but this is going to take care of all of my problems."" And then the hurricane came and in four hours there was nothing left and it was true. There was nothing. It was gone. All the best cotton that I've ever grown. Now, I assume that's a man that knows cotton and I'm saying what does the best cotton mean? If I ever said that, they'd say, ""What is he talking about?"" The best cotton I've ever seen. Sounded like Trump actually. But -- but he meant this was the best crop he's ever grown and it was good and then boom, it was gone. And I told Sonny Perdue who loves you, who was your governor, as you know... and a popular governor. And a popular governor. I guess he'd still be governor if they didn't have term limits. Sonny was a great, popular governor and he's now the Secretary of Agriculture and I told him, ""We're helping those farmers in Georgia."" And by the way, Alabama got hit. Florida, did Florida get hit or what? And we're helping them all. We're helping our farmers a lot. In addition to the deal we made with Canada, Mexico, it's a -- we're helping our farmers. We're going to get them over this because they got really hit hard. They got wiped out and we're going to help them. Great people. Great people. Since election day, we have created 4.5 million new jobs... and we have lifted 4.3 million people off of food stamps. Think of that. Jobless claims in Georgia just fell to their lowest level in 45 years. More Georgia workers are employed today then at any time or any point in American history. Think of that. You want to see that end quickly? You want to see Georgia prosperity end quickly? Vote for the Democrat. She'll end it quickly. She will end it quickly and she'll double up your taxes and a lot of bad things will happen. We passed a massive tax cut for Georgia families and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle-class. We're working on that now. Here in Georgia, the great news just keeps rolling in. Jobs are going up. Crime is going down. Wages are rising, first time in many years. You saw that in the report on Friday. Poverty is plummeting and confidence is at an all-time high. Other than that, we're not doing very well. Under Republican leadership, Georgia is safer, Georgia is stronger and Georgia is winning like never before. And I'll tell you what, I know Brian. He will take it to new heights, heights that you wouldn't even believe. I know him. This guy doesn't stop, which is what you want. He's an incredible manager. He's been successful all the way up and down the line. This man will bring it to heights that you wouldn't believe, even today with those great numbers. And to protect your rights and freedoms, we overcame the Democrat smear campaign and confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh.  Boy, did he get treated badly. The Democrats treated him so badly, so unfair. And did you see what happened on Friday? You know what I'm talking about,right? They knew -- you knew that before. You knew that these three women, they knew that before. They knew that a long time ago. So, a woman, who accused then Judge Kavanaugh of horrible, horrible crimes... admitted that actually she never met Judge Kavanaugh or Brett Kavanaugh or Kavanaugh period. Never met him, never saw him and the act never happened and it was a lie. It was a total lie. She made up the story and she was forced to admit it.  It was a false accusation, it was a false statement and she was forced to admit it. Can you imagine? This man, for 10 years, I wasn't -- who knew I was going to do this? I was happily building buildings in Manhattan, having a good time, having a nice, simple life. A nice, simple life ... And then I said to my beautiful first lady ... And I said, ""What the hell. Let's give it a shot,"" and look what happened. Look what happened. And look what happened. Now, and we're doing -- we're doing things for our country that haven't been done in 100 years. What we're doing, we're turning it around. By the way, when I came in -- actually this happens all the time, but when I came in backstage, a very powerful, strong guy was saying ...  Thank you very much. A very, very powerful guy, a big strong guy, with tears coming down on his face said, ""Thank you, Mr. President for saving our country."" This happens all the time. This happens all the time. Thank you. Tears, tears. I said, ""When was the last time you cried?"" He said, ""I don't know that I ever cried."" Even as a baby, this guy didn't cry, but he was crying backstage. I mean, tears are coming down, thanking me. And it's true. We turned the country around. The country was going down. But think in terms of Justice Kavanaugh. Think if he didn't get the appointment based on this woman's false accusations. Think of it. Think of it. Just think of it, how horrible that was. I think this was number four. And by the way, what about the other ones? How about the other ones, folks? This was number four. You'll see others now, but how about the other ones? But, listen to this. So supposing this was the final straw and the Democrats who were -- who were so bad, who were so disrespectful, who were so horrible, right? How about the leak? How about Dianne Feinstein with the leak? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know about the leak Remember? Remember when she went, ""No, I don't know. Did we leak? did we leak?"" John Cornyn asked the question. He asked her, boom, ""Did you leak?"" ""No. No, let me check. No. No, we didn't leak. We didn't."" I always say that may be the worst body language I've ever seen in my life, right? She leaked. In other words, she leaked. But it was terrible the way he got treated and now this woman comes forward, says, ""I never met him and it was a false story, false statements. I lied."" She said, ""I lied,"" and he could have lost a judgeship on a story that was made up and the way the Democrats treated him and us, you've got to get to the polls on Tuesday and you've got to vote. The contrast in this election could not be more clear. Republicans produce jobs. Democrats produce mobs. You've heard that. You've seen it. You've seen it. You've seen it. Antifa. They the helmet off and they take the arm bands and you see these little arms, you see these little arms. And then you see the clubs in their hands. You know, they're tough guys, right? Where are the bikers for Trump? Where are the police? Where are the military? Where are the ICE? Where are the border patrol? No. No. We've taken a lot. We've taken a lot, folks. But, you see these guys, you take off their helmet, their black helmet, their black outfit with the pads. They're all tough guys and they're swinging clubs viciously. They couldn't care less who they hit. These are bad people. These are people causing problems and the press doesn't want to talk about them. If the radical resistance, and that's what they are, radical resistance, takes power, they will move immediately to reverse America's progress and to eradicate all of the gains that we've made. The Democrat party wants to raise your taxes, restore immediately job killing regulations. They want to take away and destroy your health care because that's what's going to happen, impose socialism and totally erase America's borders. How about that caravan? Do you want to let that caravan just pour in? I don't think so. So we started the wall. $1.6 billion. Another $1.6 billion just approved. We're building it in pieces and chunks, but I want to build it all at one time. In the meantime, you saw last week I called up the United States military. We're not playing games, folks. There's no games. Because you look at what's marching up, that's an invasion. That's not -- that's an invasion. And a lot of things happening. You know, ask yourself, how do you think that formed? And did you see the second caravan?And we pay these countries, by the way, Honduras, El Salvador, we pay these countries hundreds of millions of dollars which, by the way, we'll be stopping very soon, OK? They don't do a damn thing. They don't do a damn thing for us. We called up -- I asked Vice President Mike Pence to call up the head of Honduras, to call up the heads of all -- he called them. He said, ""Listen, we don't want you to allow the formation of caravans in your country. We pay you hundreds of millions of dollars a year, which is probably just stolen, and we don't want it. And you know what? Absolutely, we will fight -- in the meantime, nothing. They do nothing for us. Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan of a legal aliens to pour into our country. These are the same caravans that have violently overrun Mexican soldiers and police. You saw this. We're not dealing with babies here, folks. You know, every time I say, ""You have some rough people in there,"" the media says, ""How dare you. We want to see proof."" Well, they gave you 300 names yesterday. These are rough, rough people in many cases and if they're allowed to breakthrough our borders, only larger and bigger, we have emboldened these people. It's not going to happen. And by the way, you saw how good our military -- they got off those planes. I had so many calls and I had so many people ... And we look at those soldiers and you saw that barbed wire going up, that barbed wire. Yes, sir. We have barbed wire going up because you know what? We're not letting these people invade our country. We want them to come in. We want them to come in, but they have to come in legally. They have to come in legally. And that's why I'm sending a message today to the caravans, to the criminals, to the human traffickers -- do you believe, human trafficking, because of the internet. is more prevalent today than it ever was in the history of our world. This is a worldwide, unbelievable problem. Who would think we're talking about this? You think of that from 500 years ago. Because of the internet, worse today than it's ever been. And we're not letting in the smugglers. So turn back now because you're not coming into the United States unless you go through the process. Turn back. So if you want more caravans and you want more crime, vote Democrat. It's very simple. If you want strong borders and safe communities, vote Republican. And by the way, I saw him backstage. I said I'm going to bring him out just for a second. He's a really good guy. I met him years ago and I know you really like him. He's a Georgia legend who truly knows about winning. He led the Georgia team to a national championship. Coach Vince Dooley. Vince, come up here, coach. Thank you. President Trump, thanks for coming to Georgia and supporting Brian Kemp for our governor. Brian grew up with our family. We have known him since he was 10-15 years old. My wife's best friend is Brian's mother. A football player, my son, played side-by-side as the offensive guard and tackle with a total weight of about 180 pounds a piece. They weren't going kill them today. But President Trump, thanks for keeping your promises. Thank you, coach. Thank you. Thanks for all you've done and God bless America. And one other thing. I talked to Herschel ... And Herschel Brian -- Herschel supports Brian and you'll be hearing from him in the next day or two. He's going to be here. God bless America. Thank you, coach. Thank you, coach. And the coach is right about the great Herschel Walker. He has given me his support from day one and I understand he just endorsed Brian. And Herschel, you couldn't stop Herschel. Remember that? I remember in his day at Georgia, they wrote a ballad, right? The ballad to Herschel Walker. It was pretty easy to coach that team, though, coach. What you did is you took the snap and handed it to Herschel. Ten yards, 10 yards, 20 yards, 30 yards. And then everyone on that team went into the NFL. They said, well -- but I'll tell you, Herschel Walker's been great and he's been a tremendous friend of all of us. And that was some football player. And you have a great team this year, but... but -- but having Herschel, wouldn't be bad, right? Having Herschel. Thank you very much. And we're grateful to be joined also by a man who's really done a terrific job as your governor, Nathan Deal. Nathan? Thank you, Nathan. Thank you, Nathan. Nathan Deal. Thank you, Nathan. And here with us today is a man we all know. He has been such a tremendous help to me and the United States Senate. Whenever there's something tough, everybody tends tends to go to David Perdue because he gets it done. Thank you, David. Thank you very much. Thanks, David. What a great guy. And also Sonny Perdue. Where is Sonny? Where is Sonny? Where the hell -- Sonny, you've done a great job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Sonny. Great job, sonny. We're going to get the money for those farmers in Georgia, Sonny? We may have to come up with some new rules, but we'll get you there, right, Sonny? We'll get you there because what's not -- you know, it's amazing. You know what's amazing? We give billions and billions of dollars to these foreign countries that don't give a damn about us and we can't get a couple of bucks to farmers that got wiped out by a hurricane and we're going to take care of our farmers ... In Alabama, South Carolina, North Carolina, OK? I just put a lot of pressure on Sonny, but he can handle it, right? He can handle it, David, right? And we are joined by many fantastic Republican members of Congress. I hear they're all doing very well. They don't even have to be introduced. They're doing really well, but you know what? Let's not take a chance. Go out and vote. I've heard before how well people are doing and then, you know, people say, ""We don't have to. They're doing so well,"" and then bad things happen. Go out and vote. Congressman Buddy Carter ... Buddy, thank you, Buddy. Thank you, Buddy. A terrific guy. All of them. These people helped us so much with tax cuts and regulation cuts. Congressman Drew Ferguson. Drew ... Thanks, Drew. Great job, Drew. Austin Scott. Thanks, Austin. He's got the make farmers great again hat. He's got the green hat. That's called make farmers great again. That's what we've done with our new deals with Canada, with South Korea, with Mexico. Remember, they said we wouldn't get them done? We got them done and they understood, if we didn't get them done, we were just going to have to tariff all their product coming in, so we got them done. And they were great Jody Hice. Jody. Great job. Thank you for all of the help. Thanks, Jody. Great job. Barry Loudermilk. Barry. These are all guys -- they're winning by so much. Usually, I have to tell long stories about each one. In other words, get -- with these guys -- but you still want people to get out and vote, right? right, Barry? Rick Allen. Rick. Rick. Thanks, Rick. Thanks, Rick. And Tom Graves. Great people. Thank you, Tom. Thank you. You have great people. If you don't want to be saying ""Speaker Pelosi"" for the next two years... get out and vote. And I will tell you, you don't hear this thing too much about the blue wave anymore, do you notice? You know, about a month ago, two months ago, I was hearing about this horrendous blue wave. It's going to sweep us all out. It's going to be terrible. I haven't heard the term ""blue wave,"" but you better get out and vote, otherwise I'm going to look very bad with this statement, right? This Tuesday, the people of Georgia are going to head to the polls to choose your next governor and I think most of you know how important that decision will be. Brian Kemp is an incredible fighter and a tireless champion for the people and for the values of Georgia and he was with me right from the beginning. I read an article. They said, ""He was with Trump from the moment he was Donald Trump and Melania come down the escalator in Trump Tower. That's when he was with him."" I like those people. He will keep your jobs and wages rising, which is what's happening. He will provide great schools and health care for your loved ones and he will keep your family safe. So important. Brian will always stand behind our military and he has. He will stand behind our vets. More importantly, he loves our vets. He's talked to -- he talks to me about the vets. He talks to me about the vets a lot. Sometimes I say, ""Brian, we've got to talk about another subject. Please, Brian."" And we got Veterans' Choice passed, by the way. He's always behind our police and our law enforcement and he will never let anything bad happen to our second amendment, which, believe me, is under siege. Our second amendment. Our second amendment. If Stacey Abrams gets in, your second amendment is... is gone, gone. Stacey and her friends will get rid of it. You wouldn't mind if somebody comes knocking on your door, ""Please, I'd like to have your guns turned over to government."" Take your guns away. Please give us all guns right now. Brian's opponent, Stacey Abrams, is one of the most extreme, far left politicians in the entire country. You know that. She wants to raise your income tax very substantially. She wants to raise your property tax very substantially, right through the roof. She supports a socialist takeover of health care which means you will never be able to see your doctor, just like the vets never got to see their doctor and just like President Obama -- I'm going to be very nice -- did not tell the truth when he says you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan. He said it 28 times ... And it wasn't true. You put Stacey in there and you're going to have Georgia turn into Venezuela. I don't think the people of Georgia like that. And Stacey Abrams, and I spoke to law enforcement, I spoke to everybody, is really weak on crime, really weak on crime. That's not what you need. She wants to end the death penalty... for even the most vicious and ruthless killers. Stacey Abrams voted against tougher penalties for violent criminals who assault our police officers. Stacey Abrams wants to turn your wonderful state into a giant sanctuary city for criminal aliens... putting innocent Georgia families at the mercy of hardened criminals and predators. Abrams voted in favor of allowing illegal aliens to receive public benefits. That's wonderful. She even -- listen to this -- voted to let illegal aliens hold public office. Isn't that wonderful? And Stacey Abrams wants illegal aliens to vote. You know, that's one of the big deals here. They like them coming in because we're winning and they figure if enough of them come in, eventually they'll be able to vote and they're going to vote for the Democrats, right? We can't let this happen. For other reasons, too, but we can't let that happen. She opposed requiring proof of American citizenship at the ballot box... and she recently said she wants illegal aliens to be part of her blue wave. I think her blue wave's not going to happen. And she brought Oprah here to help her. And you know, Oprah was a friend of mine until I ran for office. Once I ran for office, we diverged slightly. In fact. you know what? I think the media will check this. Look at all those cameras. That's terrible. A lot of people said, it should be frightening every day having to speak in front -- and they're looking. One little mistake, one little stutter, one little accidentally saying a wrong word, it's a major headline. It's a major headline. One little ... One little, tiny -- a little bit of a mispronunciation of a word, it's front-page news all over the world. You know what? You know what? The bottom line, just don't make any mistakes.  But anyway, so Oprah -- and Oprah's been down to Mar-a-Lago and honestly, we did. Until I ran for office, we were actually -- we did very well. We had a good relationship and I like Oprah. But you know what you don't know? Oprah, when she ended her show, had her five most important people, I assume, her last week. You remember the last week? Well, I was on her full show in the last week. I think they're trying to burn the tape. Are they trying to burn the tape? But Oprah was here to endorse Stacey and I'm here to endorse Brian. And you know what? I hope you're going to listen to my endorsement. Stacey Abrams will make your schools and neighborhoods unsafe and she will make your jobs disappear like magic. You know the magic wands that President Obama said, ""You'll never get your manufacturing jobs back. You'd need a magic wand."" Well, we did. We did. But all of these reasons and maybe the best reason of all, he's a great leader, he's a strong man, he's a strong personality, which you need, and he is somebody that will be a great governor of Georgia. Brian Kemp, please come up.  Wow. Thank you so much. Well, thank you, Mr. President. We're so glad that you have Georgia on your mind. I was -- I was just thinking backstage about my opponents had -- you know, Obama and Hillary and Elizabeth Warren ... But we've got -- we've got Trump, Pence ... So we got -- we got Trump, Pence, Vince Dooley and Herschel Walker, the goal line stalker. Mr. President, I do, on behalf of hard-working Georgians, want to thank you for your response to Hurricane Michael. I was on the ground down there, as you were and the Vice President was and Secretary Perdue, and I've never been more prouder to be a Georgian, to see the federal, state and local response to our brothers and sisters in need. Thank you very much. As you know, my opponent doesn't think a whole lot about farmers and people that work in hospitality, but you sure do. We also want to thank you for the tax cuts. That's right. Because of that, with the leadership of Governor Deal, taxes were cut in Georgia last year and with your help, I'm going to do it again next year. We also appreciate you taking a chainsaw to government regulations at the federal level. Because of that, we are having record unemployment, record job growth, and I want to thank you for your huge endorsement in the primary. It made a big difference, as you remember. But I want to... but I want to thank you all for supporting -- I want to thank you all for supporting our President and I want to thank our President for standing up and fighting for our country and fighting for hard-working Georgians. But as you ...  But as you -- as you all know, many times the states are the laboratories of democracy and the President needs some help at the state level from time to time. So I want to encourage you all to get out and vote on Tuesday, to talk to your friends, talk to your neighbors, get the vote out. We will go to work as Georgia Republicans like we've done over the last 16 years under Governor Sonny Perdue's leadership and Governor Nathan Deal's leadership and we'll work hard with this president to continue to make America great again. Thank you. Beautiful. Wow.  But it is true. I generally have been working for getting great senators elected, been working with David and everybody else, but we're going for the senators. We do whatever we can for the congressmen and women and we've done that. But I haven't done too much for governors. This is an important race for Georgia. I'm here -- I am here for Brian because the governor of Georgia means so much to our country, our country. So you've got to get out there. You've got to get out there. And this is a very worthwhile stop. In addition, I happen to like the people of Georgia very much, so it's not so bad. It gives me a good excuse to say hello. If Democrats gain power on Tuesday, one of their very first projects will be the socialist takeover of American health care. You know what that means? It means long waits... and bad service and a lot of problems. And we'll go over that because they possibly will come up with that hopefully in their campaign. The remaining left-leaning person, they'll come up with that and you'll see what happens. You will not be happy. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare, it'll eliminate Medicaid Advantage for more than 635,000 Georgia seniors who depend on it. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it. And by the way, people don't realize this, who have paid for it. Thank you. And very importantly, Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. We're doing it. But Democrats like to spread false rumors. They're the ones that won't be able to because there will be nothing left when your system is obliterated. The Democrats plan to destroy health care. Also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for all of the illegal immigrants that they want to pour into our country. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders and destroy our nation, essentially, because, you know what? Without borders, we don't have a nation. We don't have a nation. The incredible thing, is over the years, we've been fighting so hard for other countries' borders, but we don't protect our own border, but we're protecting it now. Even with the worst laws -- they are the worst laws. They have given us so little and the Democrats don't want to change the laws because they want this chaos at the borders. They think it's good politically. I personally think it's backfiring on them and I think maybe they made a big mistake. Illegal immigration costs our country far more then $100 billion every single year. That's more than double the entire state budget of Georgia. And illegal immigration is also deeply unfair to American workers, including African-American and Hispanic-American. You know that. African-American, Asian-American, Hispanic-American workers -- not fair. Not only do the Democrats' open border policies drain our treasury, but they endanger every American community and you see that. You see what's going on. Nearly 100 percent of the heroin in the United States enters through the southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth and a substantial portion of the ultra lethal fentanyl killing our youth. These drugs have destroyed hundreds of thousands of lives last year and killed, last year alone, 70,000 Americans. And they don't want to toughen up the immigration laws. I think they're going to do very poorly at the ballot box, but I may be wrong. And they want to get rid of ICE. Elizabeth Warren wants to get rid of -- I don't -- I can't call her Pocahontas anymore because she has no Indian blood. It's a problem. She has no Indian blood. I have more than she has and I have none. And I said that a long time ago, before I got -- before she brilliantly sent out the test results. That was not a good test, Elizabeth. That will be great leadership when dealing with North Korea, China, Russia, all of these countries that you have to deal with. That was not good. Is she still running for president, Brian? Is she still ... I'll tell you, she is pushing a guy up -- a guy up in Ohio who will be a disaster for the state. We want Mike DeWine -- do you know, she's pushing some"
"And I didn't know Lee Greenwood would be here. That was a surprise. That was a surprise. Wow. We love that voice, and we love that song, don't we? Thank you, Lee. Boy oh boy, that was great. That was great. And I want to thank our great vice president, Mike Pence. Thank you. Fantastic job. I know I speak for everyone here when I say we are all, indeed, proud to be Americans. Right? And I'm thrilled to say that I love Tennessee. I am thrilled. And to be here with the hard-working men and women who are the heart and soul of our country, and that's true. That's true. In just two days, the people of Tennessee are going to elect Marsha Blackburn -- Marsha -- to the U.S. Senate to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and continue making America great again. This is one of the most important elections of our time. I don't know if I rate it more important than the last election, '16. But it's almost -- it's right there. This is really one of the most important elections that we will ever have the privilege of voting in and for. This is a big one. It'll decide whether we build on the extraordinary prosperity that we've achieve for our nation or whether we let the radical Democrats take control of Congress... and take a giant wrecking ball to our economy and to our future. And, by the way, did you see those numbers on Friday? Those are big numbers. America now has the hottest economy on Earth. No matter who comes in to see me in the Oval Office, when it's a president, when it's a prime minister, a queen, a king, they all start off by saying it's incredible what happened to the economy of the United States. It's unbelievable. And they try and duplicate it, but you can't duplicate our people, can you, huh? In the last month alone, we added another 250,000 jobs and nearly half a million Americans rejoined the workforce. We created a total of 4.5 million new jobs since the election. And by the way, the media would have never believed it if I said it on the campaign. They would have never believed it. They would have said, he shouldn't be allowed to say that. And we've lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. And the unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years, five-oh. More Americans are working today than ever before. Think of that, in the history of our country, we have more people working today than ever before, nearly 157 million Americans now have a job. African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, unemployments, all of them, all of these groups, have all reached their lowest level in the history of our country. Think of that. Poverty is plummeting. Wages are rising. Incomes are soaring. And the confidence level of our businesses and our people is at an all-time high. Other than that, we're not doing so well. Good. Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. We've got to win Congress, in all fairness. Just -- because the Democrats won't be doing that. The Democrats are going to be raising your taxes. They're not cutting your taxes. So I have to put a little caveat. We've got to win Congress. Got to win the House. I think we're doing great in the House. I think we're doing great in the Senate. But who knows, right? Who knows? You've got to get out to vote. But I will say, there is an electricity in the air the likes of which I and you have not seen since the '16 election. And you don't hear so much about that big blue wave anymore. They may do fine. They may do fine. Who knows? But the -- you don't hear about the wave, the wave is coming, the wave is coming. I'll tell you, with the statistics I just rattled off, who could do better than that? We're breaking every record practically in the history of our country, right? And very importantly, we're taking care of our great veterans and we are rebuilding America's -- and you know this -- you know what was happening to our military. It was depleted. It was tired. It was exhausted. The plans were old. Everything was tired. We are rebuilding America's military might like it's never been rebuilt before. And hopefully we'll never have to use it, but I can tell you, the stronger we become, the less likely it is that we will have to use it, OK? And we are building it at a level that has never been done before, $700 billion and $716 billion the following year. Under Republican leadership, America is respected again. And America is winning again, because we are finally putting America first. And to protect your rights and freedoms, we overcame the Democrats' smear campaign and confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And speaking of Justice Kavanaugh, great man, great intellect, a great scholar. They thought 10 years ago, long before I thought I'd be doing this, I was very happy in Manhattan having a lot of fun building buildings. I was very happy. But long before, I used to hear the name Brett Kavanaugh as being this great intellect, Washington, he will be on the Supreme Court someday. And when I told him that it's my honor -- because we did great with, as you know, Justice Neil Gorsuch -- you know that. And when I saw -- when I saw and heard about, we have another vacancy, and I said, wow, what a great time. And I had Brett Kavanaugh, judge at that time, over to the White House, I said, Judge, this is going to be so easy. Congratulations. I'm going to nominate you for the United States Supreme Court. I said this is going to -- you are so central casting. Great marks, great schools, the best everything, the best of everything. Your family, your wife, your children, you don't have a problem in the world. You are the greatest. I said, judge, this is a piece of cake. And you know what? The Democrats, what they did to him. But you heard on Friday what happened. One of his accusers came out and said she never met him, she never met him, that she made up this story, was a total lie. Rape, rape! It was a total lie. It was a total lie. It was fake. It was a fake -- it was a fake story. Totally fake story. False accusations. It was false accusations. She made up this story. It was a lie. And think of this. What would have happened if he didn't make it because of her lie? What would have happened? Think of that, how -- how unfair would that -- can you imagine? That could have happened. There was a lot of pressure on him, and there was pressure on me, frankly. These stories were coming out. And now we have to find out about the others with their accusations. OK? But I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, well, already the other one are falling down. You look at what's going on there. But this woman came out of nowhere, and because of the pressure, she admitted that it was a total lie, it was a fabricated story. And think of the fact -- think of this. If he didn't -- supposing he withdrew or I was forced to do something, which, frankly, I wouldn't do. I wouldn't do. It's a disgrace. And the way the Democrats tried to destroy this human being, this great man, who will be a Supreme Court justice at the highest level for hopefully many, many decades. Young man. But the way they tried to destroy him, and they knew what they were doing. They knew. Dianne Feinstein with the lies and the leaks. The leaks. How about the leak? Did you leak it? Remember, right? You remember? Did you leak it? That was John Cornyn of Texas, did a great job. Just said, did you leak it? No, no, did we leak anything? And the guy shouts back, no, turn around, no. Turn around. He didn't say turn around, I won't say, because they'll give me a hard time. And then she goes, no, uh, no, we didn't leak it. Which I consider that to be maybe the worst body language I've ever seen. But anyway, so we have Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court of the United States. Great. The contrast in this election could not be more clear. Democrats produce mobs. Republicans produce jobs. It's true. A vote for any Democrat on Tuesday is a vote to hand power to cryin' Chuck Schumer... Nancy Pelosi... and, of course, the legendary Maxine Waters. And to -- Maxine's in charge of banking, by the way. That'll be good. China will be thrilled to hear that. And to implement their extreme job-killing agenda, they want to raise your taxes by double and even by triple. I don't think the people in Tennessee want that. They don't want that. Lee Greenwood does not want it. Lee, do you mind if your taxes go up three times? He doesn't mind, but his wife is not happy right now. They want to increase regulations. They want to take away your health care. They want to impose socialism on our country. And they want to erase America's borders. Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan of illegal aliens to pour into our country. I don't think so. I don't think so. No nation can allow its borders to be overrun. And that's an invasion. I don't care what they say. I don't care what the fake media says. That's an invasion of our country.  Thank you. And you're right. And we started the wall. We have $1.6 billion. And we just got another $1.6 billion. And we're getting another $1.6 billion. But we want to build it all at one time. We want to get it done. And it's happening. It's all happening. It's all happening. But we need Republicans or the Democrats have to start voting for this, because this is the worst immigration laws anywhere in the world. The world laughs at us. The world sees this stuff, catch-and-release. They come onto our land. Other people say get out. We say, congratulations, you're going to end up in court for the next four years. Can you believe it? Can you believe it? That's why I am telling the caravans, the criminals, the smugglers, the trespassers marching toward our border, turn back now, because you are not getting in. Turn back. For years, we only defended the borders of foreign countries. We protect their borders, but we don't protect ours. Now we are defending the borders of our country. So very simply, if you want more caravans and more crime, because crime comes with it, vote for the Democrats. Vote for them. If you want strong borders and safe communities, vote for the Republicans. It's very simple. We are grateful to be joined today by many distinguished Tennessee Republicans. What a great group. They've helped me so much. I want to thank your state's lieutenant governor, Randy McNally, where's Randy? Where's Randy? Thank you. Great, thank you, Randy. Great job you're doing. And your state GOP Chair Scott Golden. Thank you, Scott. Thank you for doing a great job for me, too, Scott. That was a very good job. Thank you very much. I also want to thank your terrific Republican members of Congress. Are you guys ready? Are you guys ready? Lot of times, you know, they don't put them in one area, and I'm looking all over. These big stadiums, they're always packed, because we have something going on, folks. There's something happening. Something is happening. That's going to be an interesting day. We're going to do fine. We're going to do very good. We could do great. We could do great. Congressman Phil Roe, Phil, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great guy. A man who came to see me speak in Pennsylvania, and he said to me -- been long-term congressman, loves this state. And he said to a couple of friends of mine, who are also congressmen. I like congressmen, and women. I actually like the women better, but that's OK. He came to speak. And you have early voting in Tennessee. And he talked to me backstage. I was going on. I was getting ready to go on. And near the Philadelphia area, we had a big stadium, it was beautiful. And he came up, he goes, you know, I have to tell you something. I wasn't president. So he goes, Mr. Trump, he goes, I want to just tell you that, I don't know what's going on, but I've been a congressman for a long time. And I have people coming in Tennessee, and they've got the Trump hat and the Trump banners and the Trump shirts and the Trump gloves and shoes and socks. And these are people that haven't voted in years, because they never really liked who they were supposed to be voting for. And now they're pouring in with banners and everything. He said, and those lines -- early voting -- he said and those lines are so long, I've never seen anything like it. And he said those red hats and the white hats and every other hat, he said I've never seen anything like it. And he was the first one that told me. He said, and all I can say is this. If other states are like the great state of Tennessee, you're going to become president. And his name is Congressman John Duncan. Right? Right, John? He said, I've never seen anything like it. People that aren't even political, they have Trump all over. Good. And you know what I'm happiest about, we're overperforming, because everything I said, we are doing -- who thought the economy would be this good? I wouldn't have been allowed to say it. They wouldn't have allowed it to be said. Who thought we would have in just a short period -- not even two years, the greatest economy we've ever had in the history of our country? Another great friend of mine -- they're all friends of mine -- Congressman Chuck Fleischmann. OK, thank you. A man with one of the most beautiful names I've ever heard, Congressman Scott DesJarlais. What a name. If I had the name, I would have been president 20 years ago. And Congressman David Kustoff. David? Thank you, David. Great job. Along with the next congressman for Tennessee's sixth district, John Rose. You know John Rose? I hear great things. I hear great things about John Rose. Thanks, John. It's a great group. You really do. You have a great group. And I know they're all winning big and all that stuff. Go vote anyway. We don't want to take any chances, OK? Fellas, you don't mind if I tell them that, right? We don't want to take any chances. They're all good. They're great. But we don't want to take any chance that we get a little bit carried away with ourselves. So go out and vote. I don't want to see any extremely depressed former congressmen from Tennessee. Great job. That's a great group of people, I'll tell you what. They love your country. They love this state. Thank you very much, fellas. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, thank you. If you don't want to be saying Speaker Nancy Pelosi for the next two years... you have to get out and vote for John now, because he's the newcomer. And vote for these great Republican lawmakers. When you head to the polls on Tuesday, you will be deciding whether you want to keep this economic boom like we've never had before going strong, and we can do it. Frankly, I'll tell you what, honestly, we haven't even begun. We have such potential. We have such potential. As crazy as it sounds, we have such potential. Or whether you want to let the resistance take it all away, and it can go quickly. Your next senator, Marsha Blackburn, will keep your economy thriving, your wages rising, your jobs soaring, and she will keep your families and communities safe. She loves this state. She will be a tireless champion for Tennessee. Marsha is running against a far-left liberal, and you're finding that out finally, named Phil Bredesen. The hand-picked candidate of Chuck Schumer. Schumer begged Phil to run because he knows that Phil will always do what Schumer says and always, always do what Nancy Pelosi wants him to do. Phil will block pro-Constitution judges. He will cut funding to our military and law enforcement. He will embrace a socialist takeover of health care. And Phil totally supports the Democrats' open border madness. What's that all about? What is that all about? If you want to stop the liberal agenda of high taxes and high crime, you need to vote for Marsha Blackburn. Marsha, please come up. Marsha. Thank you all so very much for being here and for everything that you're doing to help elect Republicans this cycle. And thank you so much for all you did to send President Donald Trump and Mike Pence to the White House. They are doing... Our president and vice president have had quite a 21 months. And the vice president said a few things about that. Just think. Record low unemployment. Wages are growing. You are seeing so much done all across the globe. We're out of the Iran deal. We've defeated... We've defeated ISIS in Syria. North Korea, China being held accountable. And our U.S. embassy is in Jerusalem, where it belongs. And to keep this working, I think Tennesseans want a U.S. senator who is going to do exactly what she says she is going to do when she goes to Washington, D.C. Now, let me tell ya, if my opponent, Phil Bredesen, had his way, Hillary Clinton, who he gave $33,400 to, would be president and not any of these things would be happening. So if you want to have somebody...  All right. If you want to have somebody who's going to support more constitutional judges and is going to be there to support tax cuts, be there to build the wall, I ask you to... I ask you to stand with me. And if you want to vote no on Hillary Clinton and her cronies one more time, stand with me. Let's win this election on Tuesday. Thank you. She's going to do a great job. Thank you very much. That was great. Thank you. Thank you, Marsha. If Democrats gain power on Tuesday, they will try to raid your Medicare to fund socialism. You know that. The Democrat health care plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than half a million Tennessee seniors. They're not going to be happy. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors, who earned it, and by the way, they paid for it. You know that. They paid for it. They paid for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Please remember that. Democrats' plan to destroy health care also includes giving away your benefits to illegal immigrants. You know that. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and destroy our nation in so many different ways. And they want to sign them up for free welfare, free health care, free education, and most importantly, the right to vote. They want them to vote. Come on in and vote. They love them voting. Illegal immigration costs our country more than $100 billion every single year. That's almost three times the entire state budget of the state of Tennessee. Not only do the Democrats' open border policies drain our Treasury, but they endanger every American community. And you people know that better than anybody. Nearly 100 percent of the heroin coming into the United States enters through our southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of the cocaine, the majority of meth, and a substantial portion of the ultra-lethal fentanyl, which is killing our youth at record numbers. We can't allow this. These drugs kill 70,000 Americans every single year and destroy the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 127,000 aliens with criminal records. Wow! Think of that, 127,000. Think of that, 127 -- ICE, they want to fire ICE. They don't like 'em. They think they're a little bit too rough. They're dealing with tough customers. But listen to this. It's including those charged or convicted of approximately 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes, and 1,800 murders. We don't want this, folks. We don't want it. But Democrats want to abolish ICE and turn America into a giant sanctuary city for gang members and MS-13 killers. Remember when Nancy Pelosi was upset with the way I was talking about MS-13? She -- remember that, though? It's like, they're people, too. They're people, too. Oh, really? Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans will always stand with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and law enforcement. This election is about safety and it's about prosperity. For years, you watched as we let foreign countries plunder and drain our wealth, shutter our factories, and steal our jobs. But those days are over, Tennessee. Those days are over. We've added nearly half a million manufacturing jobs since the election. Last month alone, we added another 33 -- think of this -- 33,000 manufacturing jobs, 1,000 each day. Remember the previous administration? We're never going to have manufacturing jobs anymore. By the way, they're among the best jobs we have in our whole country. And very important jobs. The magic wand, he just said. You need a magic wand to bring them back. Well, I guess we found the magic wand. We found the magic wand. I recently announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal with an incredible, brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement. The USMCA, like the song, YMCA, if you have any problem. If you have any problem remember it, just think YMCA. It's a giant win for Tennessee farmers and autoworkers. And by the way, speaking of autoworkers, we have so many plants, so many companies coming back into the United States, they're all coming back, they want the action. Plus our new deal makes it extremely hard for companies to fire all their workers and leave. So we're not having that anymore. And I talked about that during the campaign. Not going happen, where they fire our workers, they move to Mexico or another country, they build their cars and then they sell them back here, no tax, no nothing. We end up with no jobs and empty factory. That's not happening anymore. That's not happening. We've taken the toughest ever action to crack down on China's abusive trade practices. We're doing very well, by the way. Every day it's promises made, promises kept. And there has been no president or no administration that's had a more successful first two years than we have, with all that we've done. We've taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs. That's happening. You see it. Thanks to our aggressive measures to drive down the price of health insurance, this year premiums on the exchange in Tennessee are plummeting by an average of 26 percent. And we got rid of the individual mandate, which was a disaster. We took it out. We got rid of it. You think that was easy? Not easy. And we've introduced new affordable plans in this state that are as much as 60 percent cheaper and more than that than Obamacare. To help critically ill patients get life-saving treatments, we passed right to try. I'm very proud of that. Many, many years they tried to get it passed. Many, many years, right to try. A patient's terminal ill, they travel all over the world trying to find a cure, if they have the money to do that. If they don't, they just don't have hope. They go home. We have the best medical facilities, doctors, research in the world, and if we're getting close, anything in the pipeline, if something's terminally ill, if somebody's very sick, they now will have the right to try the experimental drugs that we have. And we've had great success. We've had great success. There's been some incredible stories already. That was done three months ago. And last month, I proudly signed the largest bill to fight the opioid epidemic, which is a real big problem. Biggest bill, $6 billion, in American history. We passed veterans' choice, giving our veterans the right to go see a private doctor instead of waiting in line for weeks and weeks and weeks. Forty-four years, they've been trying to get it done. Forty-four years, we got it done. And the landmark V.A. accountability law, to ensure that anyone who mistreats our veterans will be immediately accountable. You're fired. Get out. Right? And those people right there, those congressmen helped me so much. That's true, fellas. Thank you. On every one of those. On every one of them, what I just said, every one of them, that group of congressmen, they are incredible. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military. And we gave our great warriors their largest pay raise in more than a decade. And at my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces. It's called the Space Force. I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear catastrophe. And Iran is a much different right now than it was before I took office. They were doing bad things, and they are doing bad things now, but they don't have the same perspective. They were looking for the Mediterranean. You know what the Mediterranean -- that was a long ways away. They wanted to take over the whole Middle East. Right now, they just want to survive. And we've recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together we've made extraordinary progress, and we are just getting started. We have a long way to go. That's why we have to get Senator Marsha Blackburn in office as soon as we can. By the way, we have another great senator here. He's from a slightly competitive state. It's called the great state of Georgia, where I just left. The legendary Senator David Perdue. Thank you, David. Great guy. Great guy. But if Lee Greenwood doesn't like him, I'm going to say, David, you got to get out of here. I'm sorry. But the Democrats want to turn back the clock, throw America in reverse, and return power to a corrupt, selfish ruling class that only looks out for themselves. You see it happening, but we stop it. Our opponents are stuck in the past, while we are rebuilding and going into America's great future. I need you to vote for a Republican House and a Republican Senate so we can continue this incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. It is. With your support, we will keep on cutting your taxes, reducing your regulations, growing your jobs, and raising your incomes. That's what we've been doing. We will protect Medicare and we will protect your Social Security. We will defend your right of free speech, religious liberty, and we will continue to confirm judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. We will fully secure the border. We will pass Kate's law. We will stop sanctuary cities, stop catch-and-release, and end the visa lottery, end chain migration, and we will keep the criminals, drug dealers, and terrorists the hell out of our country.  We will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. For years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for Tennessee. And we are proudly standing up for our great national anthem. I am asking every citizen from every party, every background, and every race, color and creed to reject the Democrat politics of anger and division and to unite behind our proud and righteous destiny as Americans. I need you to get your family, get your friends, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and go out and vote Republican. Do it now. Do it Tuesday. We have to get it done. On Election Day I need the people of Tennessee to send a message to cryin' Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, and the radical resistance by voting for Marsha Blackburn. Loyal citizens like you helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country, returning power to you, the American people. That's what's happening. This incredible state was tamed by tough frontier men and strong frontier women. This is the state of Davy Crockett and Andrew Jackson. Davy Crockett. Andrew Jackson. And this is the state of generations of proud Tennessee patriots who ventured out into the wilderness and up into the mountains to build a life and a home. They didn't have a lot of money. They didn't have a lot of luxury. But they all had one thing in common: They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. These courageous Americans did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others tried to erase their legacy, tear down our history, and destroy our proud American heritage. From the majestic valleys of Tennessee to the red rocks of Arizona, Martha McSally, Arizona, McSally, McSally, she's great. She's great. McSally, Arizona. From the big sky of Montana to the green fields of Missouri, from the deserts of Nevada to the everglades of Florida and from the coal mines of West Virginia to the steel mills of Indiana, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win. We will not bend. We will not break. We will never give in, we will never give up, we will never back down, we will never surrender, and we will always fight on to victory. Because we are Americans. And our hearts bleed red, white, and blue. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And Tennessee, together, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Tennessee. Thank you."
"Thank you Mike. Thank you. Wow. Look at that crowd. That's a nice crowd. That's a nice crowd. If this election is based on crowds, they might as well cancel it because we won. That's for sure. Our opponents have 4 or 500 people and they say how many people they've had. Oh they had a big crowd like about this group right here. That's what they had. This is a big beautiful crowd. Thank you very much Pensacola, Florida. We love it. I love the state of Florida and I have to tell you we love the panhandle. Did we do well in the panhandle? And you got hit but nobody like you to have built it back. In a little while, you won't even know there was that vicious hurricane. That was a bad one though. Wasn't it? We got hit a little bit of the state but it's happening fast. It's going good. Rick Scott, everybody's working hard. Made a lot of progress. It was a bad one. That was like a giant tornado. That wasn't a hurricane. That was like a 50 mile wide tornado, incredible. I visited and I've never seen where the houses were gone but the foundations were gone. The houses and the foundations, nobody's ever seen anything like that but you are great people and we are with you 1,000 percent. You know that. You know that. Great people. In just three days, the people of Florida are going to elect Rick Scott and Ron DeSantis to protect your jobs, defend your borders and continue ""Making American Great Again"". We're just days away from one of the most important elections of our lives. This is a big one. This is a very important election. Has anybody not voted? Raise your hand. Not that bad. But you're going to vote right? You're going to vote. That's not bad though. That's probably 10 percent didn't vote and I have no doubt that you're going to vote for DeSantis and Rick Scott. Right? We need them. We need them. No games. This is -- this is very serious stuff. This election will decide whether we build on then extraordinary prosperity that we've achieved for our nation. Or whether we let the radical Democrats, and that's what they've become. They've become radical Democrats. In Rick's case, he's going against somebody that's falling asleep. And in Ron's case, he's going against somebody that's got a lot of energy but he runs one of the worst, one of the biggest problem cities anywhere in the country. He's not doing the job. You don't want to have him running Florida. That I can tell you. They're going to take control of Congress. They want to give away our country. They want to knock it down with a giant wrecking ball to our economy and to our future. And by the way, did you see those job numbers? Did you see what's going on? Right? They were awfully good numbers. You know, it's very interesting. Some of the fake news was saying I was watching. Why doesn't he talk about the economy? Why does he talk about immigration and what's coming up with the caravan? Why does he talk about the caravan when he's got maybe the best numbers on the economy in the history of our country? And we can talk about the economy but the fact is we know how well we're doing with the economy and we have to solve problems. I'm looking to solve problems. Not talk into the fact that we have done a great job and we have done a great job on the economy. So we now have the hottest economy anywhere on earth. We have the best economy that the United States has ever had. In the last month alone we added another 250,000 jobs. Think of that. And that is despite the hurricanes. You know hurricanes devastate your monthly and your quarterly numbers. This is 250,000 jobs despite your -- I have to -- your hurricane. Now if you add those numbers back, which I won't bother doing. The 250,000 goes really wild but we're not even going to do that. We're going to take it the way it is and it is something but we've added a total of 4.5 million new jobs since the election. Nobody would have thought that's possible. Including those people back there. Nobody would have said that was possible. Nobody would have said -- if I said on the campaign that we would add 4.5 million new jobs they would go and oh, they'd say terrible things. We are over performing. What we said was great but what we're doing is far greater so that's the way we want to keep it. That's the way we're going to keep it. But the unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. That's not bad. And more Americans are working today than ever before. Think of that. In the history of our country, today, more Americans are working than ever before in the history of our country. That's a good sound byte. That's a good sound byte. I was just saying that's awfully tough to beat somebody when I'm debating one of the far left candidates that the Democrats will produce. Well you have two of them running against our two friends. But can you imagine in the debates we have the most successful economy ever. What are they going to say? We have the best jobs numbers ever. What are they going to say? It's going to be hopefully very easy debates. But we always debate three people, it won't be one it will be three. It's the person, plus the media against me. So that makes it a little tougher. That makes is a little bit tougher. Remember they way they treated Hillary? Oh Madam Secretary. Oh, what did you have for breakfast Madam Secretary? Did you enjoy it? As far as you Mr. Trump, bah, bah. No. I have -- we have three people. Three people on that stage. Hispanic American, African-American and Asian-American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country. Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. We're working on that right now. We're taking care of our veterans and we are rebuilding America's military might like we haven't done in 50 years. And everything is made in the USA. It's a good thing. No, we're building our military bigger, stronger, better than ever before and we hope we never have to use it. But you know when you don't have to use it, when you're bigger, better, and stronger. Right? Then you don't have to use it. When you're weak, you have to use it. When you're strong, you don't have to use it. Under Republican leadership, America is respected again and America is winning again because we are finally putting America first. Right? Could the cameras please span out and just show this crowd? It would really be nice. Would really be nice. Would you do that? You know, they never like to do that folks. They never like to do that. Could you span out? See they won't turn their camera. They don't want to turn the camera. They never do, unless there's a little problem in which case that camera bends in 15 different directions. Right? That camera can bend and turn. That's called great equipment. They never show the crowd but people hear the crowd. They hear the crowd. Sounds like a big Florida State or Florida football game. Sounds like a stadium on television. In many ways, it sounds even better. But I wish they would show the crowds because nobody has any clue. They do. I guess we all do. Right? We all do. I mean, I looked at the crowd size of some of the people that we're competing against. You don't want to be involved with that. One thing you always have plenty of room. That's good. But if crying Chuck Schumer, you know crying Schumer. Nancy Pelosi. Or the legendary genius, Maxine Waters. If they take power, they will try to wipe away all that we've done and at the same time double and triple and quadruple your taxes. And we're not going to let it happen. They will restore the job killing regulations. You know, I cut more regulations in less than two years than any other Administration has cut in four years, in eight years or in one case more than eight years. We've cut more. Remember I said, we want to cut two for every one? You know what it ended up? Right now, it's trending at 22 for one. We cut one regulation and we take out 22. A highway that would take 20 years to get approved. We go through a process. You believe an environmental impact process, I know it well, would take 20 years, 18 years, 15 years, 22 years. We have it down to two and a half years. We want to get it down to one and a half maybe even one. And by the way, we may reject it if it's not good but you're not going to devote an entire lifetime and then find out at the end it's not going to be approved. And it's going to end up costing 10 times or 20 times more which we have many examples, then it was supposed to. So we have it down really good but we're going to get it down even lower. And again, if it doesn't pass environmental standards, if we do anything to interfere with our clean air or our crystal clean, beautiful water, we won't approve it. Not going to be approved. But we're going to know. We don't have to take 20 years to tell you that do we? They'll take away your healthcare and they'll make it impossible. They'll impose socialism on the state of Florida. Welcome to Venezuela. And they'll erase America's borders. We have to have a border. If we're going to have a great country, we have to have a great, strong, powerful border. So we're building the wall, as you know, it started. We did $1.6 billion. We've got another $1.6 billion. We're doing that and we have another third but I want to build it all at one time. And when you look at that caravan and I'm good at building. When you look at that caravan coming up, that's not what we want. That's not for us folks. Not for us. And we want people to come through our strong borders but they have to come in legally. They have to come in absolutely through a process and they have to come in through merit so that they can help all of the companies that are moving back to Florida and moving back to the United States. We have car companies. We have car companies moving into Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and South Carolina and North Carolina and Florida by the way. But we have many, many companies moving back and I speak to the top people and I speak to the presidents of countries and the prime ministers of countries. And they all want to be where the action is and we are where the action is now. Didn't used to be. Even two years ago, not a long time. It was going in reverse. It was going down. Regulations were killing our country. High taxes, all of the other things. And by the way, if Florida -- if you want to pay high taxes, you ought to vote for the mayor of Tallahassee, Florida because you will pay high taxes. And you'll destroy this state that I love and that I live in. I mean I'm here all the time. This is my home also. Great state. And Rick Scott has done a great job. He's done a great job. A vote for any Democrat this November is to really vote to put extreme, far left politicians in charge of Congress and to destroy your jobs. Slash your incomes. Undermine your safety and put illegal aliens before American citizens. Not too good. A vote for Republicans is a vote to protect your families, to keep America's economic boom going full speed ahead and it is going. It's going better than ever before. And don't forget, we're now normalizing interest rates. President Obama, we were heading south and he had zero interest. It's really easy to do things with zero interest but we're normalizing rates. And now, if you think about it -- if you think about it, just take a look. Are they OK darling? You take your time. We got to be with our people. Right? We got to be with our people. Is she OK? Take your time. Do you have a doctor? Doctor please.  what? Yes. Yes. Take that. Move that partition. Yes. Move it. Take care of the person. OK. Good. You OK? That's good. That's good. That's good. You take your time. We have plenty of time tonight. Right? Plenty of time. Don't forget I know you get here 7-8 hours ago. It's not easy. It's not easy for these folks with those really good prime locations. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you doctor. Thank you doctor. They do a great job. The doctors do a great job. We've got to get their fees down a little bit but other than that. Get their fees down a little bit. Great job doctor. Thank you. But the choice is simple. A Republican Congress means more jobs and less crime. A Democrat Congress means more crime and less jobs. It's pretty simple. That's cute. We have a number of very special guests with us tonight including a man, don't we love great athletes. I like him. You know, sports is sort of like a microcosm in life. But we have a man who was a heavy weight champion but he was always considered small for a heavy weight but he made people suffer. Any time this man fought, he had the biggest heart. He had zero, zero body fat. I can tell you. Evander ""the Real Deal"" Holyfield. Where is Evander? What a great champion. What a great champion. Evander, I've made so much money on Evander. He'd come in at 218 and he'd be fighting people and I could say Riddick Bowe, I could say plenty of them and they were good. Right Evander? They were good. But he's come in, he'd be 50 pounds lighter and the one thing they knew. It was going to be a painful, painful evening. Evander ""the Real Deal"", one of the greatest in history in my opinion. Thank you. Great Evander. Thank you very much. Evander Holyfield. And we're also thrilled to be joined by a Florida football legend who truly knows how to win. He won them all and if he had a great place kicker, he could have even won a couple of more. Right? Bobby will be the first tell you. Bobby Bowden is an incredible man and an incredible coach and a great leader. Bobby. He looks good. A lot of teams would like to have him right now. Right? Come on. Say something. Come here Bobby. Thank you brother. Thank you all. Thank you all. Gosh, what a great crowd. You know what I was thinking a while ago? The most powerful man in the world, the most power position in the world is the President of the United States. Also, like some of the other folks tonight. I want you to keep your eye on Ron DeSantis as we vote this year. I think he'll do a great job, you know that. And then also, our former governor Rick Scott. Look at them good because I know he want them. OK? You know, I came to Florida State in 1963 as -- as -- as an assistant coach. And you know where my recruiting area was? Right here baby. Right here. And we got some great ball players from Pensacola, Florida. You know it? And, so I -- it's just a pleasure for me to be back. Now, in coaching football, my philosophy was pretty simple. It was -- it was that if whoever gets the best players is going to win. You know. If I got -- if I got better players than you, I'm going to whip you. But if you've got better players than me, you're going to whip me. Now we also know, I know you know this. A coach can mess that up. Can't he? Coaches can mess that up. But the reason I mentioned that to you, the midterm election, and that's what it's all about, who gets the best players. You know. That's -- that's why I mentioned DeSantis and Scott, because they are the best players. You know. Now, let me -- let me just read you a thought I had. When you vote, vote against what you think is false. Opt for what you think is true. You can tell a difference, now. There is a difference and don't be deceived. Coach like tomorrow departs itself -- supports itself. You know, because it does. And thank you for letting me be on the program with you President and -- I want to make -- I want to wait -- I want to make one more statement about this man. Now, see if you think this is true. Trump plus God, hold it, is a majority. Thank you Bobby. You see that. That's National Championship ring. Good man. Good man. He did it the best for a long time. You know, I had another good coach up last night. I went to Indiana. You saw that. Right? Bobby would respect this guy. Bobby Knight, Indiana. Mike Pence came and we had an incredible group but we had Bobby Knight and it was -- he won 902 games. Three National Championships. The last undefeated college basketball team, it's amazing. So he was great last night and Bobby thank you very much for being here. Great. Thank you. We're also joined by many terrific Florida Republicans. Your state's next Attorney General, a tremendous person, Ashley Moody. Ashley. And by the way, you have a very good Attorney General right now. You know that right? Pam. Is Pam? Great. You like Pam right Ashley? OK. Then I like you Ashley. Good luck. I hear you're doing well. Good luck. Very important position. You're next Agriculture Commissioner Matt Caldwell. Matt. Thank you. Great Matt. Thank you. Florida CFO Jimmy Patronis. Good luck Jimmy. Good job. Good job fellas. And Congressman that helped me so much. They're always with us. They're always fighting for us and they win. They know how to win, like Bobby. They know how to win. Neal Dunn and Matt Gaetz. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks Neal. Thanks Matt. Great people. So if you don't want to be saying Speaker Pelosi. For the next two years, vote for Neal and Matt. I hear they're doing pretty well. But never assume, please go out and vote. They've heard that before in this business. Right? They're doing well. We don't have to go out and vote. You have that and then you have suppression, where they suppress the polls. You don't bother to go out and vote. But that didn't happen with us two years ago did it? Huh? That didn't happen. One of the most exciting days in political history but honestly one of the highest rated nights in the history of television. A lot of good things happened, but most importantly what we did is we won and we won for incredible people in this country. Incredible people. They got what they wanted and we are producing and we did it together. I didn't do it. We all did it together. This Tuesday the people of Florida are going to head to the polls to elect an incredible new Senator. As your governor, Rick Scott cut your taxes massively by billions of dollars. Think of it. Removed job killing regulations and created more than 1.6 million new Florida jobs. One of the hottest places anywhere on earth. That's what he created. And you know what? You put the mayor Tallahassee -- take a look at the bad job he's doing in Tallahassee. You put him here, he'll destroy Florida in one year or two years if he's doing a good job. A vote for Rick's far left opponent, Senator Bill Nelson, who I never see. I'm the President of the United States. We have 100 Senators. We have 49 Democrats. I never see him. The only one I see is crying Chuck. He represents everyone. Bill never calls me and says, you know I'd like to get something from Florida for Florida. Okeechobee, the damn, we're doing that because Rick Scott was driving us all crazy in the White House. He was driving us crazy. He'd call again. It's Rick Scott, governor sir. Rick Scott, I said, oh I know he wants Okeechobee. As soon as I give him that he wants other things. But honestly, isn't that what you want? So I've never had a call. I've been here almost two years. I've never had a call from Senator Bill Nelson saying could you help me? I've never had a call. But I'll tell you what he is good at and I shouldn't say this but I will. With Okeechobee, I did it for him because he was just back and forth. He's sending me plans. He's just like a construction job. Right? And it's a big deal. Lake Okeechobee and he's calling and all of a sudden Bill Nelson heard about it and he had a news conference to announce Okeechobee Dam and he had nothing to do with it. So I don't way that's stupid but I will say this. I don't see Bill Nelson for five and a half years and around election time he's on television every night. But for five and a half years, you don't see him. So, a vote for Nelson is just a vote for Chuck Schumer. The majority leader, how about this one? It's vote really for the group. Diane Feinstein, she did a great job. She did a great job on Judiciary with her obvious leaks. Remember that? Remember? Remember that? Senator Cornyn of Texas, did you leak? Uh- do I leak? Did we leak? Did we leak? Did we leak? No, you didn't leak. Oh, no we didn't leak. The worst body language we've ever seen. What a mess. And by the way, did you see today? Right? Now Justice Kavanaugh, then Judge Kavanaugh, great person. It started a whole movement, I mean, what they did to that man. And today, an accuser who said she was raped admitted she was lying. Think of that. She was lying. She never met him. It didn't happen. Can you imagine? And -- and the Democrats were so horrible on everyone. So horrible. And by the way, what about the others? What are they going to say things like she did? She said it never happened. She never met him. She don't even -- she didn't even know why she did it. And they tried to destroy a great man with a great, incredible family. A scholar, an intellect, she said it never happened. Can you imagine, if this man, who people predicted 10 years ago would be a Supreme Court Justice some day, because of his intellect. Can you imagine if he didn't get the job because of that? And then you find this out later on? But she admitted nothing happened. She never met him. This is disgraceful. The Democrats. Bill Nelson voted against Neil Gorsuch and he voted against Brett Kavanaugh. Bill Nelson voted against your tax cuts and he voted against your regulation cuts. Bill Nelson voted against ""Kate's Law"". He voted for deadly sanctuary cities and Nelson joined every other Senate Democrat in supporting open borders legislation sponsored by Diane Feinstein. You deserve a Senator who shares your values and who will always have your back. And I will tell you, this is a man who loves the people of Florida. He works as hard as anybody I've ever seen. We all work hard. I work hard. This guy, he is doing -- he's a producer. He's done an incredible job as your governor. Rick Scott, please come forward. Good evening Pensacola. Now isn't it exciting to have the President here? Is he taking care of us? Yes. So he's been President for less than two years. Let me tell you the things he's already done. We've had two horrible hurricanes, Irma and Michael. Everyday he called me. What do you need? Everything I asked for he came through. Everything. You know -- and then you -- you talked -- he talked about Lake Okeechobee. I asked Barak Obama and Bill Nelson to fund a dike at Lake Okeechobee. It's their project. It's a  project. You know how much money I got? Nothing. I did harass the President a little bit about it. I called him a lot. If he'd invited me to the Oval Office, I said how are we doing on Lake Okeechobee? But he came through. We have all the funding. So all of it will get done in the next four years. Thank you Mr. President. So let's think about Hurricane -- Hurricane Michael. Here's -- it was horrible. Fourteen foot of storm surge, 150 mile an hour winds. So many people without homes. So many people in trouble. This is the greatest country in the world. People came from all over the country. They didn't say are you a Republican? Are you a Democrat? They say, what do you need? You need water. You need food. You need a tarp. You need some tarp. We'll do it for you. This is the best place in the world. This is what this President's doing. He's bringing us together to do good things. I'm going to go to Washington to have a can do attitude to represent you whole heartedly to make sure our Federal government takes care of us when we need them. You know, as you all know, I grew up in public housing. I didn't know my dad. We lived where -- my family was very poor but I -- I was born with a silver spoon on my -- in my mouth. You know why? I grew up in this country where anything is possible. You know, I forgot one point. You know what Bill Nelson -- Bill Nelson texted me he says, why are you doing things for the President? What am I supposed to do? I mean, when we're in need shouldn't I talk to the President? Should I say what can you do for us? This is a -- this is a massive storm. Shouldn't we get local, Federal and state resources? Yes. So, we have a big choice. All right. Here's your choice. Over here with Bill Nelson, he wants to grow Washington. What we want to do is grow our economy, not the Washington economy. With Bill Nelson, he wants to raise your taxes. He thinks it's his money for Washington. We want lower taxes. Less money in his pocket. More money in our pockets. That's what this President has done. Tax cuts. Tax cuts. Tax cuts. You know, my mom taught me to be a worker. Bill Nelson's not a worker. He doesn't show up to work. I have a very specific plan on how we can improve this country. It starts with term limits. You know who ought to be term limited first? Bill Nelson. You know, we have sent so many big talkers to Washington. We need to send more doers to Washington like President Trump and I will do it. Now, here's your job. Vote. The only thing that matters between now and Tuesday at 7 p.m. is to get every vote out. If we do, we'll have the greatest win ever besides 2016 maybe. Go. So, if you voted make sure you're family and your friends get to the polls and vote. We need to get every vote in we can so we can all go to D.C. and help President Trump turn this economy around. Make this the greatest nation in the world to grow up in. God Bless America. Good night. So remember what I told you. Almost two years as President, I never received one call from Senator Nelson to help out the people of Florida. Not a call. Not a call. This man all the time. That's got to mean something. To me, that means a lot. Maybe almost everything. The people of Florida are going to choose a governor to continue the Florida jobs boom and the success boom started by Rick Scott. Ron DeSantis, I've known him a long time. I mean, I don't want to talk about his education. But he's Harvard. He's Yale. Good student, which is only telling you he's smart but I know a lot of smart guys that don't have what it takes. He does. He's a smart guy. He's a great guy and he'll keep your jobs going way up. He'll keep your taxes going way down. Ron stands 100 percent with the men and women of law enforcement like we all do. And Ron is running against really a radical socialist named Andrew Gillum. Who will not do good things for Florida. Gillum will tax and regulate your jobs into oblivion. Gillum wants to abolish ICE. Can you believe that? Wants to abolish ICE. Nobody wants that job but they love it. To them it's a day at the office. They're strong people but they're great patriots and they take care of us. Wants to flood your cities with criminal aliens because that's what's going to happen. And Gillum pledged his support to end all borders. Do you believe that? End borders. So when you have people camping out on your front lawn remember Gillum. That's what will happen. People will come in, if we don't have those borders. And did you watch tonight? I sent the United States military to our borders. And I looked at those young, great people and I looked at those generals giving the orders and I looked at the way they worked and I watched that barbed wire being put down. Barbed wire. Got to come in legally folks. You can't come in that way. And by the way caravan, after caravan and we pay these countries where they're formed. Honduras, all of them. We pay them hundreds of millions of dollars. They do nothing for us. They do nothing. They do nothing for us. They had a new one just formed in El Salvador. We pay them a lot. We pay them all, hundreds of millions of dollars. They do nothing. And did you see Mexico's trying. They are trying. And their military and their police stood guard and the level of viciousness with the rocks being thrown in their face. Their military was hurt. Their police, their law enforcement, they were hurt. We don't put up with it. We don't put up with it. We don't want -- we don't want that in our country. We're not going to have it in our country. They broke through. Think of it. They broke through the Mexican military and the Mexican police. They broke through. And by the way, these aren't babies. They broke through viciously. We're not having them. And you know the good thing, they don't break through our military. Nobody does. Nobody's breaking through our military. Gillum's extreme policies would be a total nightmare for the state of Florida that we all love. If you want a bright future for your families and your children, going to take care of your children. You have only one choice Ron DeSantis for governor. He's going to be a great, great governor. Ron, come on up. Hello Pensacola. Is this Trump country or what? You know, President Obama was in Florida the other day. He didn't get a crowd this big. Not even close. I want to thank the President for keeping his word on behalf of the American people. When candidate Trump came to Florida, he promised to restart America's economy. Has President Trump delivered? When candidate Trump came to Florida, he promised to put solid Constitutionalists on our Supreme Court. Has President Trump delivered? When candidate Trump came to Florida, he promised to stand by our veterans. Has President Trump delivered? Candidate Trump came to Florida and promised to relocate our Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. And while no other President delivered, has President Trump delivered? Candidate Trump promised to end the disastrous Iran Deal. Has President Trump delivered? When you make promises and you run for office and you get in the office and you keep it. You are doing right by the people that elected you and that's exactly what he's doing. I'm proud to be here with my wife Casey and she's going to be the next first lady of the state of Florida. Right over there. I'm also proud in the governor's race. I'm the only candidate running who's worn the uniform and served in Iraq and served in our military. I'm also the only candidate that can say that I've never been -- had my palms greased by an undercover FBI agent while I've been in office. So here's the mission. We have to protect Florida's future. We need to protect the economic momentum that we have under Governor Scott and under President Trump. I will keep it going and I will build on that success. And we'll have success like we've never had before. But, you've got to have good leadership and you have to keep taxes low. Andrew Gillum, his great idea is to raise tax 40 percent. That will cost you your jobs. That will cause businesses to leave Florida and it will stop the flow of investment into our state. It would be a historic mistake but here's the thing. That 40 percent tax increase, that's just the increase he's willing to admit to you that he's going to see. This is a guy that has supported higher taxes his entire career including higher property taxes as Mayor of Tallahassee he wants to repeal the Trump tax cuts, which would mean higher Federal taxes for you. And the non-partisan think tank analyzed all the spending he's promising and they say the only way you can pay for it is either to raise the sales tax to 38 percent or to impose an income tax in Florida. With me as governor, we will not raise taxes and we will never have an income tax. And we have such a good opportunity to bring more investment to Florida. Mr. President, I just want you to know when I become governor, I'm going to come to Don Jr. and Eric and I'm going to try to bring the Trump Organization to Palm Beach. We can save you a lot of money. I'll protect Florida's communities by standing with the men and women of law enforcement. I'm not going to attack them like Andrew Gillum has. I'm not going to sign an anti-police pledge. No wonder Tallahassee has the highest crime in Florida. No wonder they have the most murders in their history last year. Bad leadership and bad judgment. He wants to abolish ICE and have sanctuary cities. No. I can tell you this, when I'm governor we will not have sanctuary cities and Florida will never be a sanctuary state. I will appoint solid Constitutionalists to our state supreme court. Similarly to how the President has appointed these great people to our Federal courts. We can end judicial activism in Florida one month into my term. So we've got to do that. I will defend your rights including your 2nd Amendment rights. Andrew Gillum has laid out criteria what he would ban. The fact is, he would ban the vast majority of handguns and long guns in the state of Florida. He is hostile to the 2nd Amendment. He will not protect your rights and he cannot be trusted to be the governor. I'll also protect -- protect your right to pursue the type of healthcare"
"Oh, that is something. That's a lot of people. That's a lot of people. Well, one thing we know: we get the biggest crowds, by far. There's no -- if crowds mean anything, we're going to have a great Tuesday, that's for sure. Hello, Montana. I said I was coming back, and I'm back. You know, good -- back for a lot of good reasons, but two good reasons in particular -- we'll get into that. But I am thrilled to be with you in this great state. I love this state, and you like me, based on those numbers. Those were wonderful numbers. 2016, we had one of the all-time exciting days ever. It was something -- greatest movement, greatest political movement in our history. Thank you, and I want to thank Montana. Believe me, you were a big part of it -- big part of it. Big, big part. In just three days, the people of Montana are going to send a great man, Matt Rosendale... to the United States Senate to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and continue with what we're doing, and we're getting there fast. Make America great again, right? See all those hats? All those hats. Look at those hats. This is one of the most important elections of our entire lives. This election will decide whether we build on the extraordinary prosperity that we've achieved, or whether we let the radical Democrats take control of Congress, and take a giant wrecking ball... to our economy, and to the future of our nation. America now has the best economy in the history of our country. Can you believe this? Right? I said it was going to happen; I just didn't know it was going to happen this fast. It's happened fast. You saw those numbers yesterday. In the last month alone, we added another 250,000 jobs, and nearly a half a million Americans -- it's now going to be almost 600,000 Americans returned to the workforce. Since Election Day, we've created 4.5 million new jobs. Think of that. If I ever said that during the campaign, they would not have allowed that to happen. They would have cut it. You know the way they cut the good stuff. They cut all the good stuff out. They would have cut that out. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. More Americans are working today than ever before, nearly 157 million Americans now have jobs. We've never been there before, not even very close. African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment has reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. That's not a bad sound bite. Is that a good sound bite? OK. How do you lose the debate? Let's say we're debating the radical, liberal Democrat over here, and they go, ""Oh, they're going to help jobs."" I say, ""Well, we had the highest jobs, the best jobs, the best employment number ever, the best unemployment numbers ever."" What do they say? How do they counteract that? They'll figure something. They'll figure something. They'll think of something like Russia. ""Let's see, Russia. Let's blame Russia. We won't say that she was a lousy candidate, and we won't say, certainly, that he was a very good candidate. We would never say that."" Veterans' unemployment recently hit its lowest rate in nearly 20 years. Wages, wages, beautiful wages for the first time in years, wages are rising. Confidence is soaring. You saw the confidence level. Business confidence, consumer confidence, every form of confidence is at an all-time high, or very close, and America is booming. Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. And we then did the war on clean, beautiful coal, and we are putting -- and you see it better than almost anybody -- our coal miners. They're all back to work, and they're going back to work. Clean coal, clean coal. Nobody thought that was going to happen so fast, either. You know, I was in West Virginia yesterday -- great people. They like the mines, also. You know that, right? Who makes better coal? Who's got better coal? Huh? Well, they say they do. You both do. But I talk to the leaders of foreign countries. They love our coal, and we're 65 -- either 55 -- I've heard two numbers. I've heard 55 percent and 65 -- either one is OK -- increase in the export of coal to foreign countries this year. And by the way, it's going much -- they've just gotten started, because I make them buy it. You know, we have these crazy deficits, and we have these horrible trade deals. So I go in, and I say, ""You've got to buy our stuff. You've got to buy our coal. You're going to buy our oil. You're going to buy our equipment, and our planes, and our tractors. You're going to buy our tractors. You've got to buy everything, because we're not going to stand for this imbalance."" And they're buying like crazy. They're buying so much, they don't -- they don't even need it. They just want to have me be happy. They want me to be happy, so they're buying your coal, and they're buying everything. They're buying it. And if they don't buy it, they've got problems, right? They've got problems. And we're strongly protecting Montana farmers, ranchers and loggers. We have not forgotten you people, that I can tell you. And don't forget, for the ranchers and for the small farmers, and some pretty big ones, too, you don't have estate taxes anymore to worry about. When you leave your farm, you leave your ranch, you leave your things to your children, your children don't have to go out and -- remember, they used to have the expression, ""mortgage the farm""? That was for a reason. They'd mortgage the farm to pay the estate taxes. You don't have any death tax, estate tax -- same thing. You don't have the death tax anymore. Got rid of that. Steve Daines helped a lot. They all helped. Steve Daines -- good guy. Saw him speaking up here before. I saw him speaking. That guy is terrific. Hello, folks. So you don't have -- think of that. Think -- think of what that means, though, seriously. Now, if you love your children, you can leave that farm, or the ranch, or your logging equipment, your logging stuff, your trees -- you can leave whatever the hell you want, if you like them. If you don't like them, then you don't care too much about this particular tax. But if you love them, you can leave them, and they won't have to mortgage the farm or mortgage whatever it is you're leaving, because they don't have to pay estate tax anymore. Nice, right? It's nice. That's a big one. A lot of people don't talk about these things, like that. Under Republican leadership, America is respected again... And America is winning again, because we are finally putting America first. It's been a long time. Weeks ago, we achieved another incredible victory for our nation. We proudly confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court... Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And Senator Tester... voted against, voted against. And I don't know if you just heard -- did you hear? One of his accusers, false accusations, just came out a little while ago and said it was all a lie; that she never met now-Justice Kavanaugh. She never met -- it was a made-up story. She made up the story. It was a lie. It was a total lie. It was fake. You know what fake means? It was fake. Now think of that. She lied about the story, about rape -- about rape. She lied. And we're supposed to sit back and take it. And supposing he didn't get to be -- and he's a tremendous man. And by the way, what about the others? What about the others? When are they going to say what happened? And supposing he didn't get -- supposing we didn't stick? A lot of people said, ""You know, you stuck with him, sir. It was great."" Supposing I didn't? Supposing I was like most other politicians, and I said, ""Oh, let's -- let's cut, and let's pick somebody else."" We don't do that stuff, because I always knew. But she just came out and she said it was a lie. It's a damn disgrace. And supposing he was forced -- supposing he was forced to drop out and not become -- this is a great intellect, a great scholar, Yale, one of the top -- for years, they've been saying he should be on the Supreme Court. Supposing because of these lies and this lie -- these lies, by the way, these lies. But this lie -- supposing he dropped out? A lot of guys would have. I gave him credit, also, for sticking it out. That was brutal. So supposing he dropped out, we picked somebody else, and go through the process. Somebody else goes to the United States Supreme Court, but he drops out, and he dropped out because of a filthy, dirty lie? Think about that. How about that, right? But you people knew what was going on. But you know what? Your senator, Tester... what he did -- what he did -- what he did was terrible. What he did to Justice -- now-Justice Kavanaugh -- Judge Kavanaugh at that time -- was terrible. It was terrible. And what the Democrats did to him was terrible. It was a disgrace, OK? And I have to say it. Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters... if they gain the majority, they will try to plunge our country -- and it's not even a question of trying; it's what's going to happen, because their policy is so bad. You know, they're lousy politicians, and they have lousy policy, but they stick together. One thing I'll say: they stick together. They really do, the Democrats. They -- it doesn't matter what, even a hoax like they tried to pull off with Judge Kavanaugh, they stick together -- or the Russian hoax with the election. They use that as an excuse, because Hillary Clinton lost. Next time, they'll learn. You've got to go, and you've got to campaign in Wisconsin. You've got to campaign harder in Pennsylvania. You've got to campaign in Michigan. You've got to campaign harder in North Carolina, you know? Not Russia. So they use that -- it's a -- I call it ""the Russian hoax."" It's a hoax, and they use that in a -- as an excuse for losing the Electoral College that is set up that they should win the Electoral. I mean, you'd have to run the whole East Coast. You have to win so much, and it's set up. The Democrats should easily win, but you know what? Hopefully, 2020's going to come along. We're going to do even better, even better. And Montana was with me right from the beginning, but you remember? These people back there, some of them, I see. That's a big -- that's a big crowd of people on a Saturday afternoon. The media. The media -- do you remember? ""There is no path to 270."" You need 270. ""There is no path to 270 -- for me. But we got 306, 306. We got states that they didn't think about. They got -- we got states that haven't been won by a Republican in a long time, and they're great states, and they're very happy right now because they're doing very well, just like Montana is doing very well. The Democrats want to raise your taxes, restore job-killing regulations. It will kill it. It will -- those regulations, don't underestimate that. The tax cuts were important, but those regulations would have plunged this country -- you would have gone down -- 4.2 percent GDP? You would have gone way down. You would have had -- you would have started at zero, and you would have gone down a lot. They want to shut down your coal mines; that, you know. They want to shut down the timber mills; that, you know. But you know they're going to shut down the coal. Oh, they're going crazy over the nice, beautiful, clean coal. And the beautiful thing is, if we have a national emergency, if we have a problem, big problem, there's nothing like coal. You'll truck that stuff around. If the roads aren't there, you'll turn it around and go through a tree. Those windmills -- number one, when the wind doesn't blow, they tend not to do too well. Right? They tend not to do too well, and they're extremely costly, and they need subsidy. We're paying massive subsidy. And of course, they kill all the birds, you know. Other than that, they're wonderful. No, they don't work too well in times of national emergency. We say, ""We need more energy, but the wind isn't blowing."" One thing with coal: that sucker, you just keep piling it in there, right? Right? Those miners. The miners knew what they were doing. And I don't want to speak badly about natural gas, because I know it. But they drop a little something in one of those pipelines -- that's the end of the natural gas, right? But the coal just keeps coming. So just hang in there, folks. You're doing fantastically well, and I'm with you 100 percent. But they would have killed -- they would have killed the coal industry. It was gone. It was another year or two. The regulations -- people that are in the industry, they came up to me. They said, ""It's one of the greatest miracles we've ever seen, because we had another year to live -- it was gone."" Most of them were closed up, anyway. And now, West Virginia, you have to see what's happened there, what's happened here, what's happened in other places. It's really incredible. And if you look at iron ore, where you need the miners, also, what's going on there -- we've revived the steel business. And now we're taking in Minnesota, we opened it up. The finest in the world -- finest in the world -- the iron ore, and it's coming in. Instead of dumping crap all over our country, they dump steel in order to put our steel plants out of business. And then what they'll do is after they're totally out -- and by the way, you talk about the coal industry; the steel industry was dead. It was going to be dead within a couple of years. It was on its last legs, and now it's one of the hottest industries in our country. You have to see, U.S. Steel, what they're doing... Nucor, building new plants, expanding old plants. And we're doing good steel, quality steel. We're not taking the junk that gets dumped on our borders. I know a lot about steel. When you have good structural steel for buildings, and for things like airplanes, jet fighters, commercial planes, you want the finest steel in the world. You don't want stuff that was dumped on your shore. You have no idea what the hell is in there. So it's a whole different world, but our steel industry is booming. They'll end up taking away your healthcare. You know what's going on with that. It's such a disaster. You'll end up tripling your tax. Your tax is going to go through the roof, and it still won't pay for it. They basically want to impose socialism in the United States. They want to... they want to erase your borders. Your socialism hasn't done very well for Venezuela. Would you say that's not too good? You know, Venezuela, 20 years ago -- less -- was the wealthiest country in that part of the world, by far. Today, they can't buy a loaf of bread. That's socialism. That's socialism. The Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan of illegal aliens to flood into your communities... depleting our resources and overwhelming our nation. We don't want that. And did you see where Homeland Security -- you know, they were saying, ""How do you know? How do you know?"" There's some bad people, as I said the other -- bad hombres. There's some bad hombres in that group. So they came out with a list of 300 really bad ones, really bad ones. They're in there, and now they have worse caravans, actually, worse caravans being formed. It's terrible. The Democrats only believe in defending the borders of foreign countries. They don't want to defend our border, but of foreign countries? That's fine. And we're straightening that whole mess out, too. It's happening fast. Republicans believe we must defend our borders. We have to defend the borders of our country, and that country is a country that we love, the United States of America. The choice in this election could not be more simple. A Republican Congress means more jobs and less crime; a Democrat Congress means more crime and less jobs -- very simple, right? I like that. Nothing like simplicity. So this Tuesday, you have to get out and vote. Just make sure. Do it sooner. I guess you can't do it later -- unless you're a Democrat. Then you can do it later. Then you can. I'm sure they'll -- they'll have no problem. Joining us this afternoon is your terrific Republican senator who's a real friend of mine, Steve Daines. Where is Steve, by the way? Where is he? Where is he? Come here. I've got him. Come here, Steve. I know he just spoke. I saw him on the plane. Unfortunately, they didn't -- you couldn't hear him. They didn't -- you couldn't listen to the beautiful words, but... So Steve had a little family problem, because during our big vote, as you know, he was here. I said, ""Steve, why don't you bring the beautiful couple?"" And it is -- ""Bring them to Washington. We'll make it a historic marriage."" But I'll tell you one thing: If we needed his vote, he was on the line. He was ready to take off, weren't you, huh? He's been my friend. He's been our friend, and he loves you folks. Thanks, Steve. Fantastic guy. Thank you. On Tuesday, the people of Montana are going to head to the polls to elect a great, new senator to serve alongside of Steve, and to represent your state, and they will represent your state very well, the both -- the people that I'm talking about. Remember this: a vote for Matt Rosendale, who is a worker... is a vote for low taxes, low unemployment, strong borders and Montana values, real Montana values. A vote for Matt's opponent, far-left Democrat Jon Tester... and by the way, who will never vote for us, just so you understand. I know he's saying wonderful things now about me, and he might be a nice guy, except he tried to destroy Admiral Ronny Jackson... who didn't do -- who's the most clean-cut, wonderful person that you've ever met. He tried to destroy him, and I've never forgotten it, and it's honestly one of the reasons that I've been here so much. It really is. It really is. It really is. It's a disgrace. What he did to that man... He was President Obama's doctor, President Bush's doctor. He was an admiral and a doctor. His son graduated last year, high in his class from Annapolis. His son is this beautiful, great son, this incredible family and wife. He tried to destroy that man, all because I said, ""Ronny, what do you think about heading up the V.A.?"" And he didn't want -- he -- he said, ""Sir, I'll do whatever your -- your order is."" I said, ""Well, I don't want to make it an order. Would you do it?"" ""Only if you want me to."" So he would -- didn't want it. It's called ""Welcome to the world of politics."" So he said, ""Sir, if you want,"" and I said, ""I'd like to have you do it. You're an admiral. You're a great leader. You're a doctor, incredible family, zero problem in your past -- zero."" I said it about two people. I said that to Admiral/Dr. Ronny Jackson, and I said it to Brett Kavanaugh. I said, ""Brett, congratulations. I'm choosing you, and you're going to go so fast. This is going to be so easy. You're perfect -- the best education, the best marks, best grades. You're a great intellect. You're a great scholar. You have an incredible family. You have nothing in your past. Brett, congrat -- "" He said, ""This is the greatest day of my life. Thank you, sir."" I said, ""This will go so quickly in the Senate."" And they tried to destroy him. And it was false stuff. I'm being nice, because it's Montana. It was false. And the same thing with Ronny Jackson, but with Ronny Jackson, it was one man who I don't even know. I never met. He's never called me, because he listens to Schumer. He has nothing to call me about. He will take a -- he will listen to whatever Crying Chuck tells him to do. But he doesn't call me. So I don't really -- I don't really know him. He might be a nice guy, but he tried to ruin an admiral that's as clean cut -- because you have a lot of clean-cut people here. I can see it. But as -- you take the best person in this group; that's the equivalent of what this man is, and his family. And Jon Tester tried to ruin him in order to -- in order, what? In order, so I'd pick somebody else to run the V.A.? What was the purpose of it? Really, what was the purpose? It wasn't a political threat. Ronny didn't even really want to do it, in retrospect. I feel guilty, because I'm the one that said, ""You should do it,"" because I thought he'd do a great job. And that's why I'm here, and I'm here also for two -- these two great people. So it's a vote, really, to make Chuck Schumer the majority leader. I don't think you can do that, and to put extreme liberals in charge of every single Senate committee. Jon Tester says one thing in Montana, but he goes outside and he says the exact opposite in Washington. I mean, let's face it: he's been saying great things about me now. The border, the military -- everything's great. But you know what? On Wednesday, the day after the election, he'll be saying the opposite. He won't even be saying it; he'll just raise his hand: ""No, no, no."" And there's nothing we can do about it. There's nothing we can do about it. I said that about Joe Manchin in West Virginia. I like Joe a lot. The problem is, he'll never vote for us. And he did vote for Justice Kavanaugh, but he voted as soon as Susan Collins made her decision, which we very much appreciate. But as soon as she made that decision -- and now, we had the votes, and then he -- like a quarter of a second later. It was a quarter of a second. She said, ""And therefore -- "" and I was waiting, because I said, ""Joe, vote before. Don't vote after. Vote when we need your vote, not just because it's good for you in West Virginia."" And I don't think it's going to help him in West Virginia. In fact, I think he might have lost his Democrat base by doing it. That's something nobody thought of. But when Joe voted after the vote by literally seconds, it was like, she said, ""I am going to support -- "" and then, boom! Manchin did... But with Tester, it's an even worse situation. So I'm here for that reason, and we don't want to have somebody that's lockstep with Nancy Pelosi, with Maxine Waters -- Maxine Waters... and Crying Chuck Schumer. Remember this: Tester voted against your tax cuts. Tester voted against Kate's Law... which is great stuff. Legislation named after Kate Steinle, who was gunned down by a five-time deported illegal alien who should have never been here -- who would have never been here, if I had my way. But we need more votes. We need Democrat votes, because we don't have -- we have majorities that are like razor-thin. We need more votes. Like, in the Senate, we need 10 votes. We need 10 -- so we have to get 10 Democrat votes. They're not going to do that. There's nothing we can do. We need 60, and we have 51, and out of the 51, we will, on occasion, lose one -- not often. But Tester voted in favor of sanctuary cities. Tester joined... Tester joined every other Senate Democrat in supporting open-border legislation from the now-legendary Dianne Feinstein. So look, we -- we have a choice. We need the vote. You'll never get John's vote. You'll never get Tester's vote. No matter what you do, he's always going to vote the way he's told, and you need a man that's going to vote for your agenda. Your agenda is Make America Great Again. That's what your agenda is. It's very... It's a simple agenda. It's a very simple, very straightforward agenda. You know, the new campaign, it's going to be ""Keep America Great"", right? I don't think -- as much as I love ""Make America Great Again,"" I don't know that we can carry it forward, because people will say, ""Well, what did we do for the last four years? Are we still trying to do that?"" No. We've done so well, and we are ahead of schedule, and fairly soon -- I wouldn't sell the caps yet. Keep them for old time's sake. They'll be very valuable someday. But our new slogan will be ""Keep America Great,"" because that's what we're doing. If you want to stop the radical Democrats, you need to retire Jon Tester and support Matt Rosendale. Matt, come on up. Matt.  Hello Gallatin County! Wow! Thank you, Mr. President. It is no secret that Montana loves our great president, huh? Thank you again for another record-breaking trip to Montana. Mr. President, you kept your promises that you made during your campaign, and for that, we are incredibly grateful. Promises kept. I applaud your commitment to fighting for our veterans, and as a proud son and brother of a U.S. Marines, I understand the tremendous sacrifices our veterans have made to this nation. Many veterans are here with us today, and I thank you for your service, and I think we all should give them a tremendous round of  . You folks know, Jon Tester's had 12 years to fix the problems for the Veterans Administration, and he has failed us. We do not have proper staffing at our facilities. Veterans face long wait times. They can't see the doctors. Many are forced to go out of state to receive their healthcare. That is unacceptable. I'm tired of the politics and the excuses that have plagued the V.A. for years now. It absolutely has to stop. Our veterans kept their promises to this nation, and it's about time our nation kept its promises to our veterans. To all the veterans, you can rest assured, when I'm in the United States Senate, President Trump and I will keep our promises to the veterans. You know, folks, Jon Tester must think we're a bunch of fools. He pretends that he works with President Trump, when it's all talk. He doesn't work with the president at all, as the president just explained to you. On every major issue -- tax cuts, building the wall, Supreme Court justices -- Jon Tester stood in the way and voted no. Tester's last rally was with the former president of Planned Parenthood. I am proud to defend life, and proud to have our president standing here with me. Tester has been too wrong for too long. On Tuesday, we can send Jon Tester and his lobbyist supporters a strong message: Montana is Trump Country... not Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi Country. We have three days until the election, and we need you to get out and vote. Look at all the incredible work that President Trump has done. He may not be on the ballot this year, but I will tell you, his policies are. President Trump needs our help right now to win this race. I need your help right now to win this race. So please, go tell your friends, your family and your neighbors, ""Go vote."" Let's win this race and send Jon Tester back to Big Sandy. Are you with me? Are you with me? All right. Mr. President, thank you for being here today. Thank you all so much for coming out today. May God bless each and every one of you, and these great United States.  Thank you, Matt. You know, Matt was a very successful guy. He didn't need to do this. OK -- no, I didn't either, of course. We both did. But you know, we're having fun. I'm having fun, because we are winning. We're winning so much. We're winning, and that's what we want. We're all winning together. It's not me. We're all -- we're all in this together. We're winning together. But he was a very successful man. He wanted to do this, and I said, ""Go ahead."" Then he did fantastically, really, coming out of nowhere. Did incredibly in the primaries, and he's a great, great candidate, and he'll be a fantastic senator. He'll represent you well, so I hope you can get out there and vote for Matt Rosendale, OK? Another man who is incredible, actually, and so supportive, and he's been -- from day one, he's been just a fantastic representative of Montana. Member of Congress, Congressman Greg Gianforte. He is fantastic. Greg, come up, please. Please. Greg is great on jobs. He's tough on crime, and he will always support our veterans, our military, our police and our Second Amendment, and Greg's opponent, Kathleen Williams, is a left-wing radical. I don't get it. What's going on in Montana? What's happening here? But truly, a left-wing radical who wants to massively raise your taxes and eliminate your borders. Williams supports Nancy Pelosi's and of course, Maxine Waters' Cap and Trade Bill -- that's another beauty, right? -- and would kill the Montana coal industry immediately -- I mean, immediately if they get in. If she wins, your Second Amendment -- and I know this is not something that's very popular around here -- your Second Amendment would be in big trouble. That's not a good... that's not a good talking point for them. So if you don't want to say the words ""Speaker Pelosi"" for the next two years, hopefully you can elect and extend, for a long time, my friend Greg. He's a tremendous guy. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Two quick things: I want to thank you for giving me the great honor to be your lone voice back in the U.S. House. Thank you. And to this great president, Mr. President, on behalf of every person here in Montana, thank you for giving us hope again. Thank you, Greg. Thank you. Doing a fantastic job, and he's very respected in Washington. I can tell you, some are respected, and some aren't. I can tell you the ones that are, and the ones that aren't, and he is. And Matt will be, when he gets there, there's no doubt about that. If Democrats get the majority, one of their first projects will be a socialist takeover of American healthcare -- you've been seeing it -- meaning taxes like you've never seen before. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 40,000 Montana seniors. You know, the Montana seniors are a lot of them here -- incredible people. They depend on it. It would be obliterated. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it, and who, by the way, paid for it, right? They paid for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. I wish people would get that into their heads, because the other side is fighting pre- -- it's the only thing they have. They have nothing else. We're going to protect pre-existing conditions. You heard it here. You've been hearing it from me for a long time. Remember Social Security, what I said during the debates, and everybody disagreed with me? We haven't touched your Social Security, right? We haven't touched it. Democrats' plan to destroy healthcare also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. I know the people of Montana do not mind that at all. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to violate our laws, disrespect our rules and overrun our borders. They don't mind. They don't mind. They want them to come in. Look at what's going on in California with your gubernatorial candidate. ""Come on in. We're going to pay for your school, your education..."" You know, I jokingly said a couple of weeks ago, ""And then everybody's going to get a Rolls Royce."" And the fake news -- one particular person -- said, ""He said that they're going to get Rolls Royces, and that is not true."" Do you believe it? You can't tell a joke with these people. You can't be sarcastic with these people. I'm only kidding. They are not giving out Rolls Royces, please, OK? Fake news. The Democrat Party -- not the Democratic Party, but the Democrat Party wants to sign illegal aliens up for free healthcare, free welfare, free education... and what do they really want? The right to vote, because they figure that's the way they stay in office forever. Remember that. That's a big move. Illegal immigration costs American taxpayers more than $100 billion every single year, roughly 10 times the entire state budget of Montana. We need to use our precious resources to help Americans who follow our laws, not to reward illegal aliens who break into our country and break our laws. Democrat immigration policies also enable drug smuggling, human trafficking and criminal cartels. Think of it: human trafficking. Do you know how bad? That's the lowest form of human being that does that. They kidnap people, many, many women. They kidnap, and they human traffic, and they're doing it in the world, worldwide. The number one -- it's -- it's never been worse than it is right now because of the computer, because of the Internet. It's never been like it is. Human -- think of what human trafficking is. You would have thought that died out 300 years ago. It's at the highest level it's ever been now, because of the Internet, and we are fighting it hard. We're doing very well. It's horrible. Nearly 100 percent of heroin in the United States enters through the southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth and a substantial portion of the ultra-lethal fentanyl, which is killing our youth. These drugs kill 70,000-plus Americans every single year -- that's 70,000 that we know of -- destroy the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. Last year alone, our brave -- and"
"Thank you, Indiana. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And thank you for giving America a truly amazing person in Mike Pence. He's a great, great man and a great vice president. Thank you, Indiana. Thank you. Great. I'm thrilled to be back in this great state with thousands of hard-working American patriots. We are here to celebrate our amazing achievements together. And by the way, how were those jobs numbers today? How were they? How were they? And to make sure America's incredible comeback continues moving full-speed ahead, in just four days, the people of Indiana are going to send Mike Braun to the United States Senate... so we can keep making America great again. Thank you. This election will decide whether we build on the extraordinary prosperity that we've unleashed or whether we let the radical Democrats take control of Congress... and take a giant wrecking ball to our economy and to our future. It's not going to happen. America now has the best economy in the history of our country. Could you believe this? Can you believe this? Way ahead of schedule. And if I would have said that during the campaign, where I spent a lot of days and nights with you, and I was with another special friend of ours, Bobby Knight, who's going to be speaking in a couple of minutes... The great Bobby Knight. But if I would have told you the kind of numbers that we've achieved, nobody would have believed it, and they would not have let us get away with it, but we would have gotten away with it anyway. We would have gotten away with it. It turned out that we were underestimating as opposed to overestimating. In the last month alone, we added another 250,000 jobs and nearly 600,000 Americans returned to the workforce. Nobody would believe it. We've created 4.5 million new jobs since the election. Nobody would have believed that. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. And more Americans are working today than ever before. How about that? But how is that statistic? How is that? How is that statistic? Think of that. I mean, of all statistics. In the history of our country -- think of this -- more Americans are working right now today in this country than have ever worked in this country before. It's an amazing statistic. That's going to be fun on the debate stage when we debate one of the lefties. And -- and they're going to be saying what a good job they're going to do by raising your taxes and all -- and we're going to say, but we have more people working now than ever worked. You know, I think we're going to win that debate. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment have all reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. And in case you haven't noticed, in the great state of Indiana, we are putting our steelworkers back to work at a level that nobody thought possible. One of the great stories -- it's one of the great stories -- you know, we taxed all of the steel dumping from other countries that don't exactly have us in mind. And we taxed them at 25 percent. And guess what? Our steel industry is one of the hottest industries in the country right now. It's expanding like crazy. And right here in Indiana, Steel Dynamics has just announced a $75 million investment in Columbia City and a $400 million investment in Terre Haute. You know that, right? It's a lot of money. And just three months ago, United States Steel announced a $750 million investment in a place called Gary, Indiana. The fact is, after years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. It's about time. It's about time.  Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families and, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning like never before, because we are finally putting America first! But if cryin' Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi... and the legendary Maxine Waters... if they take power, they will try to erase our gains and eradicate our progress. Can't let that happen. The Democrats want to raise your taxes. They want to restore job-killing regulations. They want to shut down your steel mills. And that will happen. They want to take away your real health care and use socialism to turn America into Venezuela. Lovely place, lovely place. And Democrats want to totally open borders. How do you like that sound? Come on in. Come on in, everybody, just come on.  You're right. And we're building the wall. We've got $1.6 billion. We have another $1.6 billion. We have a third $1.6 billion coming. But we want to the build it quickly at one time. We don't want to do it piecemeal, but it's started. It's doing well. We want the money now from the Democrats. We need their votes. Or, an easier way, elect more Republicans. We don't need their votes. The Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan. And you see we have more caravans forming. You do see that. Gee, I wonder how that happens. I wonder how. I think they overplayed their hand on this one, folks, because between Justice Kavanaugh and the caravans, you people are energized. And they want these caravans for illegal aliens to flood into our country, overwhelming your schools, depleting your resources, and endangering your communities. Republicans want strong borders, no drugs, no gangs, and we want no caravans, thank you. The choice in this election could not be more simple. A Republican Congress means more jobs and less crime. That's not bad. Think of that, how beautiful. More jobs, less crime. How nice. How nice. So how do you -- how do you get elected when you go, let's say, less crime, hey, folks, it's very simple. We've got to stop the crime. We've got to close up -- we've got to close up the borders. We want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit. They have to come in through merit. And by the way, at 3.7 percent unemployment, a 50-year low, we need people to come in because we have companies coming back into our country. Some of them left years ago. And they're coming back into Indiana and Michigan and Ohio and North Carolina and South Carolina and Pennsylvania and Florida and every state. They're pouring back in, because, you know what? As two of the executives told me two days ago, we want to be where the action is. That's right. We have the -- we have now the hottest economy in the world. When did you hear that last? So, this Tuesday, vote Republican. We are thrilled to be joined tonight by an Indiana legend, a man who's become a friend of mine, who truly knows what winning is all about. And I have to tell you this quick story, you know, look, it's Bobby Knight, he's the greatest, OK? But I have to tell you, I have to tell you. So before I ran, but my name was being thrown out, I get a call, I told a little bit, maybe you heard this, but it's a great story. I get a call, and my secretary comes in. Sir, do you know somebody named Bobby Knight? I said, well, I don't know him, but I know of him. He's a great, great coach, if it's the same guy, but it's probably not. So find out. They say, yes, sir, it's the coach. I said, let me check it. So, you know, you get a lot of crank calls, so I figure maybe it's 90 percent a crank call. I pick up. ""Hello, Trump? This is Bobby Knight."" I said, that's him. Nobody could imitate that. Nobody. He's Bobby Knight, and you got to run for president. I said, well, I'm thinking about it. It was a year before. I'm thinking about it. But he said, you got to run, you'll do better, you're the only one going to turn the ship around. You got to run for president. I said, you know what, Bobby? If you could -- I am thinking about it, Bobby, seriously, and if you could, how about giving me your number, and I'll call you if I decide to do it, especially when I come to campaign in a place called Indiana, right? Right? So I said, Bobby, could you give me the number? And he gives me the number. I write it down. Bum, bum, bum, and I write it down. And I put it -- and on my desk, you know, I'm a hard worker, I have a lot of stuff, I'm doing deals all over the places before this whole political thing got started. And I have two or three piles of stacks of paper. They're like two or three feet high each. I write his number, I put it in the pile. A year goes by. And now I'm running, and I'm doing well. I never left center stage. Do you know what that means? That means in the debates we never lost a debate, we never lost center stage. Some of the guys were being pushed left, they were being pushed right. We never lost center stage, right? And I always said to the people running the debates, I want an odd number, because I'm in center, and I don't want to have an even number, because then two people are in center, right? But I never left center stage, and I'm doing well, and I'm going, and we had some competition, but it was fine. And everything's -- and now I'm getting ready to come to a place called Indiana. And a friend of mine, who's also a great friend of Mike Pence, calls me and said you're doing really well in Indiana, you're going to blow everyone away, but do you ever know a guy named Bobby Knight? And I said, yeah, I mean, I don't know him, but he called me about a year ago, and he really wanted me to run. He said, well, if you could ever get Bobby Knight's endorsement, you would absolutely seal the great state of Indiana. So I'm at my desk. And I have these stacks -- and, honestly, there are thousands of pages. It's -- I can't even tell you. I have this massive desk, because it keeps a lot of stuff. And there are just thousands of pages. And I said, I hung up, I said, let me see if I can find his number. I remember I wrote it down, I put it over here. Let me just see if I can find his number. And I go over here, and I take stack number one, which is literally two or three feet up in the air. Pages, thousands. And I go, let me see. And I lift it in the middle. And there's this little index card, and it says ""Bobby Knight"" and the phone number. It's the weirdest thing. It's the weirdest thing. And then I look up and I say, thank you, God, thank you. That was from -- that was from God. Because it's amazing. I didn't look, I didn't like thumb through -- I just lifted it up and there it was. It was the craziest thing. Anyway, I called up Bobby Knight, ding, ding, ding. He picks up. I go, Bobby? He says, I've been waiting for you to call. And that was the beginning of a great romance. It really was. He is a tough cookie. And you know what? I just took out something. I said, let me -- you know, look, we all know he's a great coach. But we didn't even know how great a coach. Bobby Knight, as you know, he coached in a place called Indiana. I won't ask you how it's doing since he left. I won't ask. But it's going to do well, and I hear you have a very good coach. I do. I hear you have a very good coach now. Is that true? I hear you have a very good coach. But he coached the U.S. Olympic team in 1984, won the gold medal. He won three NCAA titles at a place called the University of Indiana. He was put in the Hall of Fame in 1991. Bobby Knight was the last coach to have an undefeated season. And that surprises me. Is that true? That surprises me. And I asked Bobby, I just asked him, I said, you know, why is that? How come -- you think with all your -- you have some of these teams, they're great, the guys leave as freshmen, they go, they play in the NBA, and they're great. Why? He said, no, you play so many games, you know, 30, 32 games, you go into the playoffs. He said, if one guy has a little bit of a cold hand, you lose a game, or if one guy has a hot hand for a good team, you could lose the game. You know, you play a lot of games, because that surprised me. The last coach to have an undefeated team. And, by the way, I told Bobby, if you want, if you want, Bobby, this has nothing to do with politics, but it's interesting, because I think most of you people like sports. And most of you people -- you're Indiana. You like basketball. I said, if you want, you can tell the Larry Bird story. Because it's a great story. I like Larry Bird. I don't know if he likes me, but I don't really care. I think Larry Bird was a great basketball player. Do we agree? I think we agree. But he has a great Larry Bird story. But listen to this. Bobby Knight won 902 games. He's third all time. This guy -- and I'll tell you, he could have gone years longer. He could have gone years longer. He is a tremendous guy. But he was with me before I started. You understand. He was with me literally right from the beginning. And I'd like to ask the great Bobby Knight to come up. Thank you. I want to thank all you people from Indiana, because we won a hell of a lot of games with Indiana playing. You know, there was a great president many years ago, Harry Truman. The American public got a little thing to let him know how much they appreciated it. It was something called, like, give 'em hell, Harry. Give 'em hell, Harry. And I'd like you to join with me in saying something -- oh, he's already given 'em hell. I got it. I want you to join me in saying something else. Just like they said it to Harry Truman, who was a great president, and so is he. And what I want you to say is very simply this: Go get 'em, Donald! One, two, go get 'em, Donald.  Three! Go get 'em, Donald!  One thing -- one thing I would have done, it takes great defense to win in basketball, great defense. I think I would had to wait on Donald for a little while until he became a great defender. And that's what he's been. He's been a great defender of the United States of America.  What a great guy. What a great guy. Winner. He's a winner. We like winners, right? Governor, we like winners. Well, that's special. You know, don't tell Bobby, but he left his pad up here and his pen. I'm going to keep it, because I can sell it for a lot of money. Thank you. Thank you very much. A lot of love, a lot of love in this room. A lot of love in this state. We are honored to be joined tonight by many terrific Indiana Republicans, including a man who has done an incredible job, and it's not easy to follow Mike Pence. Governor Eric Holcomb, you have done a great job, Governor, thank you. Thank you. Great job. Great job, Eric. And a congressman who I've gotten to know, and he has a great style. He is a gentleman. He's a champion. Todd Rokita, he's here. Where is Todd? Where is he? Thanks, Todd. Great job, Todd, thank you. Thank you. And with us tonight are two terrific Republican candidates. Please get them in office. Please go out and vote. They're terrific. Jim Baird and Greg Pence. Does anybody know Greg Pence? Thanks, thanks. Thank you, fellas. Thanks, Greg. They have good genes in the Pence family, don't they? If you don't want to be saying the words ""Speaker Pelosi"" for the next two years... you've got to go out and vote for Greg and Jim and a Republican Congress. We need it. It's going to be a very interesting day. Tuesday is going to be a very interesting day. They're not going to beat the day from two years ago, but it's going to be interesting nevertheless. Was that a great time we had two years ago? Finally, I'm proud to introduce the next United States senator. I'll tell you, before I do, before I bring him up, I just want to say that Mike Braun is not a career politician. He's a very successful businessman and a patriarch who will fight every single day of his life for the people of Indiana. He's a fighter. He's a winner. Very successful guy. He's a very successful guy. He didn't need this. I didn't need it, either, by the way. But we're having fun. You know why? We're winning, we're winning. Mike Braun is tough on crime, great on jobs, and he will always support our wonderful vets, our military, and our law enforcement, our police. And a vote for Mike's opponent, Joe Donnelly, is a vote to make cryin' Chuck Schumer the Senate majority leader. We can't do that. Can't do that. A vote for any Democrat this November is a vote to put the radical Democrats in charge of the House, the Senate, and every congressional committee. That's not good for Indiana. It's not good for our country. And according to the Center for Effective Lawmaking -- listen to this. You have to listen to this. This is very important. Joe Donnelly has been rated the least effective Democrat in the United States Senate. Think of that. Rated the least -- the least effective. And that's why they call him sleepin' Joe. You got to get out -- just get out and vote. We don't have to do this. Just get out and vote. Joe Donnelly voted against your tax cuts. And he joined the Democrat mob to vote against Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And no man, nobody, was ever abused like then-Judge Kavanaugh. Nobody was ever abused. What they did to him, what the Democrats did to him, is a disgrace, but he's going to be on the bench. Now he's going to be the United States Supreme Court along with Justice Gorsuch for many, many years. Donnelly voted to get free welfare to illegals. And he joined every single other Senate Democrat to sponsor Dianne Feinstein's open border bill. You remember her, right? The people of Indiana do not have a one-week memory cycle. In fact, the people of Indiana have about a 60-year memory cycle. Dianne -- remember that? Was that horrible? Were you leaking -- did you leak it? Right? John Kiernan -- John Cornyn said, did you leak it? No, no. No, no. I don't think so. Did we leak it? No, you didn't leak it. Oh, no, no, we didn't leak it. That was the worst body language. John Cornyn. One simple question, did you leak it? And she choked. No, no, no, I don't think so. Oh. In other words, she leaked it, right? She leaked it. She leaked it. But that was a disgrace, what we watched up there. Right? What we watched up there. It's no surprise that Joe Donnelly is holding a rally this weekend with Barack H. Obama. Barack Obama. I watched him speak today. He had a very small crowd. They don't talk about that. And they never talk about how big are crowds are. Never. I always say, when I get home to our first lady, Melania, who's great. You think... She's good. People love our first lady. And you think it's easy to be first lady when you're married to me? You think it's easy? People love our first lady. And I always say, honey, let me ask you, how did the crowd look tonight? They didn't show it. I said, oh. But she said -- but the sound is amazing. But the sound. You know, like in Houston, we had 22,000 people in an arena, thousands outside for Ted Cruz. He's doing well. You don't hear about it anymore, right? Remember? He was in a little trouble. We had the rally. You haven't heard that anymore. He's doing great. They're all doing great! Mike Braun is doing great. Mike Braun is doing great. In fact, maybe what I'll do is I'll ask the media to turn that camera and show them this room, please. Would you do that? They don't want to do that. They don't want to do that.  They don't like to turn the camera. You know, when I first started, we had big crowds. Just like center stage, we had big crowds right from the beginning. When I first started, I thought that the cameras were like fixed, they couldn't turn, you know? Because it's like modern equipment and maybe it can't turn because it's got so much stuff and who knows, and they would never turn it. And then we had a couple of people that were a little noisy, you know? They caused a little problem, and they were back in, like a corner, and that camera turned like a pretzel. And that's when I realized.... Because they wanted to make us look bad. And when they had a little bit of a problem, in a little corner of the room, that sucker, I've never seen a camera turned at that angle, upside down and backwards. Upside down. Oh, what they can do with that modern equipment. And I went for four rallies, and I said, the reason is the cameras cannot turn. We were wrong. So Obama gave a rally in front of a very small group of people today. And in the rally, he talked about honesty, how he has to be honest. But he talked about you can have your plan, you can have your doctor. How many times did he say that? Twenty-eight times. Right? He doesn't talk about that. And we could go into it. But let's stay pleasant, right? Let's stay pleasant. Because we don't want to go back to the Obama days of low wages, high unemployment, rising crime, open borders, far left judges, oppressive regulations, horrible, horrible, horrible trade deals, disastrous foreign policy. Look at the mess I inherited in North Korea, and look at how well we're doing now. And terrible health care. If you want prosperity for your family, safety for your children, and security for your country, vote for Mike Braun. Mike, come on up. Mike Braun. Come on up, Mike. So, never in my wildest dreams did I think I'd be on a stage with the president of the United States, the VP, and Bobby Knight. How can it get any better? Only in America, only in Indiana. When I decided to do this, 14-and-a-half months ago... [Audience member calls out I love you Donald] I -- I never would have done it, would not have wasted my time if this man did not do what he did. My wife and family are right over there, but I'll never forget the night. I did turn the TV off at a quarter after two. I thought it might go later, went to bed, I'd only get five to six hours of sleep. That's all I need, not as good as the president here. I know he gets by on less. But I'll never remember -- forget getting up that next morning and when I saw on the TV, President-elect Trump... That's the reason I'm here. If it hadn't happened, I'd be hunkered down in Southern Indiana wondering how to survive. Thank goodness. So my opponent, who calls himself the hired help, I think you need to do more than that to deserve to be re-elected. [Audience member calls out We love you, Mike] Thank you. He's the least effective Democratic senator. Sounds like the tired help. He -- he -- he takes all his marching orders from Chuck Schumer. Let's make him the fired help. Let's retire Joe Donnelly. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. Very successful guy. Did a great job, and this is what he wants to do, and he's going to be very successful at doing what you want to do, which is a lot of great things. So I just want to thank you. And, Mike, we want to thank you for doing this, because it's not easy. It's not easy. Thank you, Mike. If Democrats get the majority, one of their first projects will be the socialist takeover of American health care. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 360,000 Indiana seniors, who totally depend on it. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it and, frankly, have paid for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Democrats' plan to destroy health care also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. I'm sure you don't mind. Does anybody mind? Nobody minds, right? As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to violate our laws, overrun our borders, and totally bankrupt our country. Because that's what's going to end up. They want to sign illegal aliens up for free health care, free welfare, free education. But what do they really want? They want them to vote, because they're going to vote for the Democrat. Illegal immigration costs American taxpayers more than $100 billion every single year, more than three times the entire state budget of Indiana. We need to use our precious resources to help our fellow Americans who respect our laws, not illegal caravans who break into our borders and break our laws. Democrat immigration policies not only drain our treasury, but they threaten our communities. Nearly 100 percent of heroin in the United States enters through the southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of the cocaine, the majority of meth, and a substantial portion of the ultra-lethal fentanyl, killing our youth all over our country. These drugs destroy the lives of hundreds of thousands of Americans, and 70,000 Americans every year die from these drugs. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers arrested -- listen to this number -- more than 127,000 criminal aliens. And they want to get rid of ICE. Can you imagine? Yet Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want to get rid of ICE. These are great patriots. These are great people. These are people that do a job that nobody in this room wants to do. I don't want to do it. How about you? This guy could do it, I think. But there aren't too many. They want to turn America into a giant sanctuary for violent predators and MS-13 killers. A blue wave would equal a crime wave. Very simple. And a red wave equals jobs and security. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans will always stand with the heroes of ICE, Border Patrol, and law enforcement. Border security is also a woman's issue. Women want safe neighborhoods for their families, great schools, and health care for their children, and they want criminals to be thrown in jail or thrown the hell out of our country. Remember during the election -- my election, '16 -- they were saying, well, I don't think he's going to do well with women. Women, women, women! I love women! They're the greatest! I like 'em much more than I like the men! But I love -- and here's the thing. And then, remember, after we won, they were said -- they said -- came in -- oh, they were so -- oh, they were just -- they didn't know what was going on. They were devastated. They said he did unbelievably well with women. What happened, women? And now they're saying the same thing. They're saying, ah, but they say it weakly, you know, because they want to say it quickly, get it over with. Uh, I don't think he'll do well with women. But we tried this one two years ago. That didn't work out too well. We did so well. And we're going to do well with women again. Because they do want security. They want security. They don't want these people coming in to our country. You saw the report that was put out. In the caravan, more than 300 people have criminal records and have serious problems that we don't want to get involved with, folks. And we want people coming in, but they have to come in legally. I'm sorry. This election is about security, and this election is about prosperity. For years, you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth, shutter our factories, and steal our jobs. But those days, if you haven't noticed, are over. We have added half-a-million manufacturing jobs since the election, soon to go to 600,000, including 32,000 manufacturing jobs in just the last month. And do you remember the previous administration? We're not going to get manufacturing jobs anymore. I said, really? Tell that -- tell that to your great governor. Tell that to your great governor, right? You're getting them here, Governor, aren't you, huh? And these are the great jobs. These are great jobs. High-paying jobs, talented jobs, talented people. I recently announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal, one of the worst trade deals, with an incredible, brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement. The USMCA is a giant victory for Indiana farmers, manufacturers, and dairy producers. You know how good it is. Great. It's great. And every time they said no, I said that's OK, we'll just tariff your cars coming in. They said, OK, we'll give you that point. We have taken the toughest ever action to crack down on China's very abusive trade practices. And I spoke to President Xi today. They want to make a deal, but we have to have a fair deal. We have to have a deal that's fair for the United States. And China has to open up their borders for our companies. By the way, America is being respected again. Do you notice? America is being respected again. But every day with us, it's promises made, promises kept. And actually, we made a lot of promises, but we did a lot better than those promises. We have actually performed a lot better than even the promises we made. We have taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs. You're going to see that. You've already seen it. To help critically ill patients get life-saving treatments, we passed something that they've been trying to pass for many decades. It's called right to try, where they can try our drugs that are looking promising that are in our pipeline, right? Hopefully you don't have to worry about that. Hopefully there's nobody in this room that's going to have to worry about that. But it's a great thing for people. And by the way, some incredible stories, some incredible results already. After years of surging premiums, the cost of health care is finally coming down. And you see that. And by the way, we got rid of the mandate. Right? We got rid of the individual mandate, folks, the most unpopular part. And we've decimated Obamacare. And now we're managing it properly, and your premiums aren't going up nearly as fast, but getting rid of the individual mandate. So many people have thanked me. You had the privilege of paying a fortune in order to have the privilege of not having to pay a fortune for bad health care. Right? Not too good. Not too good. Not too good. It's gone. You don't have to pay not to have health care. Think of it. You're paying not to have health care. Great. Great. And last month, I proudly signed the largest bill to fight the opioid epidemic in American history. We passed veterans choice, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor, and the landmark accountability law for the veterans to ensure anyone who mistreats our veterans can be accountable. And immediately we look at that person and we say, you're fired. Get out of here. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military. And we gave our great warriors their largest pay raise in more than a decade. And they deserve it. And on my direction, and working with Mike Pence, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces called the Space Force. Very much needed. Very much needed. That's where it's at. That's where it's all going. Defense, offense, that's where it's all going. I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal. And just today, we announced that we are re-imposing all sanctions lifted under that ridiculous deal that should have never been signed in the first place. We will have in place the toughest ever sanctions on this brutal Iranian regime. And at some point, they're going to get very smart and they're going to come back and negotiate a real deal, a fair deal, and a deal that lets them thrive. We want them to thrive. We have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together, we have made extraordinary progress, and we are just getting started. But the Democrats want to turn back the clock, put America in reverse, and give power back to a corrupt, selfish ruling class that only looks out for themselves. I know them well. But we are not going back. We're not going back. We're going forward. I need you to vote for a Republican House and a Republican Senate so we can continue this incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. It is. And if it wasn't, and I said that, I'd have a lot of problems back there. It is the greatest movement in the history -- think of it. And it's about you. It's not about me. It's about you. Although I didn't do a bad job, right? Not bad. Not a bad job. It's about you. He says, keep winning. We're going to keep winning. This is a movement built on love for our nation and love for our fellow citizen. And with your votes, we will keep on cutting your taxes, reducing your regulations, and raising your incomes. We will protect Medicare and Social Security. And you remember on the debate stage, I would always defend Social Security, when other guys wanted to tear it apart. Well, guess what? We haven't touched Social Security. We will defend your right to free speech, religious liberty, and we will continue to confirm judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. We will fully secure the border, we will pass Kate's law, we will stop sanctuary cities, stop catch-and-release, end the visa lottery, end chain "
"Wow, thank you so much. Hello, West Virginia. What a place. You know, we only won West Virginia by 42 points last time. 42 points. You know what that is? That's like -- did anyone ever hear of 42 points -- and we're going to better this time, OK? But I'm thrilled to be back in this great state. I love this state with thousands of hard working American patriots. And what job numbers we had today. Did you hear? Did you hear? We're going to that. They all say speak about the economy. Speak about the economy. Well, we have the greatest economy in the history of our country... but sometimes it's not as exciting to talk about the economy, right? Because we have a lot of other things to talk about. Also, very important, the economy I unbelievable. You know it better than anybody because your state under our great Governor Big Jim Justice wherever he may be. Where is he? Where's big Jim? He's around here someplace. One thing you can't miss him. There he is. You can't miss him. He's got to be 6'11 and he's up there in the weight, but I won't get into it. He's the greatest. But I'm going to introduce him in a second. But we're here to celebrate our amazing achievements together, to make America's incredible comeback continuing and we will. Right now we're moving full speed ahead like nobody thought was possible. They did not think it was possible. They did not think it. In just four days -- so important. Because you have a great candidate. You have a couple of great candidates. Carol is a great candidate also. You know that. Carol Miller. In just four days the people of West Virginia are going to send Carol Miller to the House and Patrick Morrisey to the Senate so we making America great again. This election will decide whether we build on the extraordinary prosperity that we've unleashed. Nobody can believe what's happened. Or whether we let the radical Democrats take control of Congress and take a giant wrecking ball to our economy and to our future. America now has the best economy in the history of our country, and we want to keep it that way. In last month alone we added -- this just came out a few hours ago -- 250,000 jobs. That's in the month of October, by the way. That's for one month. And nearly half a million Americans returned to the workforce. We've created 4.5 million new jobs since the election, a number that was unthinkable. If I would have said that during the campaign, oh they would have given me a hard time. They would have said Pinocchio, you know, they do the whole thing. Oh boy. And we've lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. More Americans are working today -- think of this -- than ever before. More American today, right now, this hour, are working than ever before in the history of our country. How good is that? How do you lose that debate? When we're debating a lefty, how do you lose the debate when they're looking at you and say well, we're going to look at jobs. But more Americans in the history of our country. I mean that to me is -- here's another one. African-Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans unemployment have all reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. How do you lose that in a debate? How do you lose that in a debate? It's always nice. You know, when you go into a debate it is nice to have the facts on your side. It's going to be very tough to beat. Wages are rising and you know it's -- it's been incredible. And it just got announced they're going at the fastest pace in much more than a decade and wages went up. First time in a long time. They haven't gone up. People were making more money 19 years ago. I used to talk about it during the campaign. Where people had single jobs and they were making more money than they had with two and three jobs today. And now for the first time wages are going up, and they're going up nicely, and people have a choice of lots of different jobs. And right here in West Virginia jobless claims reached the lowest level in the history of your state. Is that good? No wonder I won by 42 points. No wonder. But then it was just talk. Remember? When I came, I was campaigning. What did you know? I mean, it was another, ""Can you believe politicians?"" I'm a politician. I guess. I have to say. Am I a politician? But I said things. And we overperformed, let's put it that way. We overperformed. And West Virginia's very happy, and that coal is coming back and our miners are working again, folks. They're working again. After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. And as you know very well, because you look at your wallet, Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. We've ended the war on beautiful, clean coal and we're putting our coal miners back to work. That you know better than anybody. Remember when my opponent in the last race went to another state about four weeks before she got to West Virginia? And she was bragging, how she was going to put the coal miners out of work? Remember that? Remember that? And I said, ""You know? I don't think this is going to play well in four weeks."" She was in a non-coal state, talking about how she was going to put the coal business out of business. That didn't work. It's doing great. And countries are buying our coal, and Asia now, you see what's happening? Asia's buying massive amounts. And you're back in business, folks. You're back in business. You wouldn't have been in business for another 12 months. You were going to be out of business in 12 months. You couldn't have -- you couldn't have sustained it. I'm telling you, the timing was perfect. Don't ever wait that long. You were ready. You were ready to go over the cliff. That wasn't good. But you're back in business. Your miners are back. And last year, our coal export skyrocketed by 65 percent. Pretty amazing. Under Republican leadership, America is booming. America is thriving. And America is winning. Winning like never before, because we are finally putting America first. It's been a long time. But if Chuck Schumer -- cryin' Chuck -- and Nancy Pelosi... and the legendary Maxine Waters... take power, they will try to erase our gains and eradicate our progress. That's what's going to happen. They're going to work hard, and we will be fighting. Oh, it will be -- it will be ridiculous, frankly. It'll be bad for our country. The Democrats -- and it could happen. Could happen. We're doing very well, and we're doing really well in the Senate. But it could happen. And you know what you do? My whole life. You know what I say? Don't worry about it, I'll just figure it out. Does that make sense? I'll just figure it out. The Democrats want to raise your taxes, restore job-killing regulations, shut down your coal mines -- and, by the way, they will shut down your coal mines. You know that. That's one thing I can guarantee. We can talk about taxes, and I'll be here, veto, veto, veto. But they ultimately want to raise your taxes very substantially. But I can tell you, they will shut down your coal mines. They want to take away your good health care, and essentially use socialism to turn America into Venezuela and Democrats want to totally open the borders. They have the caravans, let them in. Do you want to let them in? Does anybody want to let them in? I don't get it. Think of it -- you campaign on open borders and higher taxes. How the hell do you win that -- how do you win? You're right. Thank you, and we started the wall and built 1.6 billion and we have another 1.6 billion and then get another 1.6 billion. I want to build it all at one time, but wait till -- wait till you see -- go home and see tonight what our great military is doing on the border. Wait till you see. Go home and enjoy it. So the Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan and I don't know if you know -- you see the big caravan coming in? Three more are forming and you know what we give to these countries? Hundreds of millions of dollars to Honduras and to El Salvador, right? We have -- to others we give hundreds of millions of dollars. Do you know what they to give? Nothing -- nothing. They give us nothing. They give us nothing. That's going to be stopping, that's going to be stopping. But caravan after caravan is forming unvetted, illegal aliens trying to flood into our country on your dollar, over whelming your schools, depleting your resources, and endangering your community. Homeland Security has just confirmed that members of the lawless caravan, the one you've been watching, come from 20 different countries and influet among them criminals and gang members convicted of crimes ranging from armed robbery to sexual assault. And I don't know if you saw the one -- they interviewed him yesterday and he was asking for pardon. Didn't speak English and the nice young -- I guess reporter was saying oh, ( ) and what was it for? And essentially it was for murder who wants -- and he's in the caravan. This is what we have -- and you look -- you look at him, you look like nice, no, no murder, right? You saw that, good I hope you saw that. And then they gave me a hard time because I put it up on Twitter and they gave me a hard time. They said you shouldn't be doing that, that's not nice. And I say, all I'm doing is just telling the trust, what can I say. Republicans want strong borders, no drugs, no gangs, and no caravans. The choice in this election could not be more simple, a Republican Congress means more jobs and less crime. A Democrat Congress means more crime and less jobs. That's pretty good, that's nice and simple, doesn't get simpler than that. So this Tuesday you have to go out -- I know in West Virginia you tend to vote on Tuesday more so than I guess you could do the early thing, but everyone here likes to go out -- me too. There's something nice about its called Election Day. We're all old fashioned. That's why we get along. That's why we get along, but you have to go out on Tuesday and vote. And I'll tell you, Patrick's going to be fantastic. And you know what, he'll always vote for us. Not for me, for us. He'll always -- he's not going to be voting with Schumer or Pelosi and open borders and all the things that they want. And we're honored to be joined by a friend of mine who I just mentioned before because he is one great gentlemen. You know, he's a very, very successful man before he did this and he did it, and he made a mistake. He ran as a Democrat. And he didn't like it, and now he's a happy man and the Republican Party loves him. Big Jim Justice, your governor. Where is Jim? Thank you, Jim. Big Jim, you're doing a great job -- stay there, Jim. Just relax. Just relax. Just relax, but I'll tell you what, are you enjoying being governor, Jim? The people love you. 65 percent up, coal exports, 65 and he works on it hard. Thank you, Jim for being here. Thanks for your support. We love -- we love our governor. Thank you, Jim. And another great friend of mine, somebody that has always been there, just always been there. And she is a fighter. She is very strong, tough but a great woman. He says Melania, that's true also. That's true, because surely I could say Melania too. Because she's been great. Great first lady, I will say that. And if you think it's easy being a first lady and married to me, it's not that easy. She's fantastic. But Senator Shelley Moore Capito, she was -- where is Shelley? Thanks, Shelley. Great job. Really a fantastic job, I appreciate it. Always there for us, always wanting to vote for West Virginia. Also joining us is Tim Armstead, who is running as you know for Supreme Court. A man who is highly respected and I just want to put a little word out, he's going for that extension. You know what an extension is, I guess you do a good job, you're supposed to be extended. And he has done so, Tim, wherever you may be -- where's Tim? Good luck, Tim. Good luck, Tim. Thank you. OK? And Jim specifically said you mind doing that, he's a good man, right? He is a good man. Thank you, good luck. Do you have any opposition -- any strong opposition? It's not strong, it's opposition but not strong. Nobody's going to beat you, Tim. Not after this anyway. Thank you, Tim. But I'm especially proud to introduce the next person who has really become ( ). And he's just -- he is a bundle of energy. He doesn't stop. You know, he's tied right now. They're tied in the polls, it's very close. It's very close. And I have to say, I like Joe. The problem is I'm just not going to get Joe's vote. I'm just not going to get it. I like him; he's a friend of mine. I'm just not going to get his vote. Even with Justice Kavanaugh, you know, I called Joe. I said, ""Joe, do me a favor. I'd like you to vote."" He said, ""well, I may. I may."" But no, but you got to vote before I win, not after we have the vote because it was a real question because nobody has ever been treated worse that Judge Brett Kavanaugh at the time now Justice Kavanaugh. Nobody, nobody. Get got blindsided like nobody ever got blindsided. What happened to him is disgraceful and what the Democrats did and the way they played that way a disgrace, right? A disgrace. And Joe said, ""I'll think about it. I'll think about it."" I said, ""Joe, I don't want you to vote after we get the votes,"" because I didn't know we were going to have the votes without any Democrats. We didn't get one Democratic vote, so I said, ""Joe, I need the vote like today."" This was a few days before the vote. ""Well, let me think about it. Let me think about it. I want to wait to do it."" OK, because there's nobody smoother than Joe, you understand. There's nobody smoother than Joe. And, no. He's much smoother than Schumer actually. Crying Chuck, right, right? When he wants something, he cries. But I've never seen him cry before, then he cried. But Joe said, ""all right, let me think about it. Let me think about it."" And then it came time to vote, and as you know we got the vote. And when that final vote was just coming out, Joe waited about one-tenth of one second. Now it means that Justice Kavanaugh was going to be Justice Kavanaugh, right? We had all the votes, so we didn't need Joe's vote. And he pressed that button. I think it was about one-eighth of one second after we had the final vote from Susan Collins, who did us a good job, good job. She did a good job. Really did. And it was really a tough period of time, but Joe -- I said, ""Joe, that doesn't count."" It doesn't count because if we would have needed the vote it was not going to happen. Does that make any sense? Do you guys understand that? I said, ""Joe, do it before we have the vote. I think we've got the vote. Do it before we have the vote."" And he said, ""let me think. Let me think."" And then when I spoke to him later he tried to say, ""but I was watching for that one-eighth of a second. I was watching."" But he didn't do it. He didn't do it. And I'll tell you what. Patrick Morrisey, I built up your coal business and it's going to get a lot better by the way. A lot. As much as you're doing and as good as you're doing, if you look at what's happening, if you look at other countries wanting our coal -- and I'll tell you, which buys a lot of coal from West Virginia. Do you know that? Vietnam -- I was with the Prime Minister and the president. You know, when you're with -- well, like when you're the President of the United States -I went to Vietnam, I went to various places in Asia -- but where you're the president here, you're not greeted by a president. You're greeted by a president and the Prime Minister. They have both. And they said they buy their coal now, because of me, from West Virginia. Well, that's good. But I -- something I didn't know -- I learned a lot since then. That was six months ago -- they said it is -- they've used coal for a long time. They said it's the finest coal in the world. It's the finest coal in the world. They have a lot of options, but they said it's the finest coal. I said, ""good, if I'm never like around the people, which I expect to be a lot, I will explain that."" But you -- do you understand? Do the miners know what I'm saying what I say that? The finest -- see, somebody like me coming from 5th Avenue. What the hell do I know about that? All I know is I want to put my miners back to work. And I know it works. And I know -- and I know for national security reasons -- another reason -- coal is something we have to have. We have to have. But they said it's the finest coal in the world. I thought that was great. Might as well tell you. Now I've told you and I don't feel guilty any longer. But I just want to introduce your next United States senator from West Virginia, Patrick Morrisey. Patrick, come on up. Wow. Isn't this president making West Virginia great again? Thank you, Mr. President, for coming back again. I have to tell you, last night I had a debate with Senator Joe Manchin. And you know what he said? He attacked -- he attacked me for supporting President Trump. Well I will never apologize for defending President Trump, nor will I kneel to alter of Hillary Clinton, Chuck Schumer or Nancy Pelosi. I ask for your vote today. President Trump needs a staunch ally in the U.S. Senate. I will be that ally. But I need your vote. I need your help. Go online. patrickmorrisey.com, volunteer, donate, help me defeat the Manchin Schumer ATM machine. Mr. President, thank you for everything you've done for West Virginia. You've been huge in our state and I look forward to winning and working with this president. Thank you and god bless. What a good job that was. So I said how's Patrick Morrisey doing to some of my friends, two people that live here, they -- I said how's he doing. They said he is the Energizer bunny. He is all over the state. You know, sometimes you'll ask that question about candidates -- I won't mention names -- and how're they doing -- oh, they're lazy, they're not working. They're not working. Well they couldn't say that about me in 2016 because ( ). Even these people say he's got a lot of energy. This man has a lot of energy. And just finally on Joe, I have to say that he was all for Hillary Clinton. He was for Hillary Clinton. She was against coal, she was against the miners, she got no support in this state, and yet Joe was totally in her camp. So that sort of -- that sort of tells you -- you know, Patrick -- as your attorney general, Patrick --  That's up to Patrick and he won't do that. Because he's just focused on one thing, becoming your next United States senator. That's what he's doing. But Patrick's been tough on crime and a fierce defender of the rule of law. And as your senator, he'll always be the tireless champion for the great people of this great state. He loves this state. And your vote on election day -- thank you very much. He's not my type, but I like him anyway, folks. He's a rough looking guy. But you're going to decide. And -- and everybody's watching West Virginia. Because you know, this was a race -- when it started I won by a lot. And -- and a lot of people said that this was not one that was going to happen. This was a while ago, and then Patrick came along and did unbelievably in the primary. He has won statewide a number of times so he's been -- he's been through it but he's won statewide. He knows your state as well as anybody I guess and a lot of people said well, I don't know. It's almost -- lets sort of focus on other states, which were also doing very well I have to say. And then all the sudden we see polls and it's tied -- it's in one case he's up a little bit, another case he's down a little bit but I mean its right there. Let's assume it's sided. It's going to be whoever gets the people going to the polls on Tuesday. The whole country is watching the great state of West Virginia. It's going to be a very exciting moment. They asked me -- the fake news media asks me recently, like a couple of days it will say, what race are you watching? Oh I'm watching Florida, I'm watching all of the red, but I said watch West Virginia. It's going to be very inter -- and they said what? I said watch West Virginia, the great place. So you're going to decide, maybe, which party controls the United States Senate. It's a very powerful love and a vote for Joe is a vote for Schumer. It's a vote for a majority leader who will be not good and we don't want to put anti coal -- these are anti coal people. We are -- they are anti coal people and they vote anti coal and frankly, that's what you're getting and if that's what you end up with it's your vote, not mine. Remember that, remember that. Joe will never be with us in terms of the vote, he'll be with us in a lot of ways. We'll go to dinner with him, we'll take him out, we like him but he's never going to vote for it so I just want you to remember that, ok? Ok, let's get on with it. Let's get on with it, let's get on with it. Patrick, I think if he ever voted against us I'll come back here, I'll say we're going to impeach him -- impeach, we will impeach Patrick. He'll never do it. He loves the people too much. He loves your industry too much. He understands the state too well. It's not going to happen. So if you don't want the Democrat mob like you saw in the Senate, vote for Patrick. Just vote for him. Finally, we're thrilled to be joined by the next member of Congress, a person who you really do like a lot I have to say, and she's doing well and I thought I'd just call her up for a second. Third district in West Virginia, Carol Miller, she's done a fantastic job, Carol. It is terrific to be up here sharing a stage with our great President. West Virginia loves President Trump. President Trump, thank you for all of the support you have given my campaign. I can't wait to be Congress to work with you. You can always count on me to put America first, fight for coal, grow our economy, protect Social Security and Medicare, embrace our veterans, and strengthen our borders. Mr. President, thank you so much for your commitment to West Virginia. God bless you and God bless our country. Thank you, Carol. Be careful.  So just to tell you that Carol is great on jobs, she loves our coal miners. You know that. She'll always support our vets. She's very strong on our vets. We love our vets. Our military and our law enforcement. And Carol's opponent is a radical left winger named Richard Ojeda. If you don't want to be saying the words Speaker Pelosi for the next two years, who will end your coal business, then you better vote for Carol Miller. Thank you, Carol. Thank you. Thank you, Carol. She's doing great. If Democrats gain power, they'll also be planning a takeover of American healthcare and that would be socialism, what they want to do. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 121,000 West Virginia seniors who depend on it. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it and by the way, who paid for it. Right? You paid for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. We're all doing that. I listened to President Obama speak today. He had a very small crowd. I have to be honest with you. They don't tell you that. You know? They don't tell you that. We had -- in Houston we had the biggest thing you've ever seen and they were saying Donald Trump spoke today in front of a few thousand people. Few thousand? We had over 100,000 people that wanted to come. We had 22,000 people in the arena. We had thousands and thousands of people outside of the arena. Donald Trump spoke today in front of a crowd of a few thousand people. Can you believe it? It's called the fake news, folks. But I head President Obama speak today. I had to listen -- I was in the plane; I had nothing else to do. I heard him talk about telling the truth. He was talking about you have to tell the truth. And yet 28 times he said you can keep your doctor if you like your doctor. You can keep your plan if you like your plan. They were all lies. Over and over again you heard that. Just used it to pass a terrible healthcare plan that we are decimating strike by strike. You saw what happened to the individual mandate, the most unpopular part. And we actually had Obamacare killed except for one Republican vote and any Democrat -- one Democrat and we would have had it obliterated and you would have had great healthcare. But we're doing a lot to make it a lot better until we do get rid of it. Then I heard him talk about the freedom of the press. We have to maintain the press. We have to love those people. Love. Except that nobody was worse to the President Obama. Nobody. In fact, he even used, as I remember, the Justice Department to go after reporters. Remember? Remember? When he's talking about how I should be nice to the fake news. No thank you. And let's not forget President Obama's false promises about our trade deals. Just one. His administration promised that with South Korea we would create in a trade deal 70,000 jobs. But instead of that, it killed over 100,000 jobs in our country. It was a horrible deal, which by the way, I have totally renegotiated and made it a good deal. Lie after lie, broken promise after broken promise, that's what he did. Unlike President Obama, we live by a different moto. It's called promises made, promises kept. And we've done more than we ever said we would. We said we were going to do things and we've done a lot more and they will be the first to tell you tell. Democrats' plan -- that's right, the magic wand, right? Remember, he said you need a magic wand to produce manufacturing jobs. Well, we just hit almost 600,000. Democrats' plan to destroy healthcare, also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. I'm sure you don't mind that. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to violate our laws and to over run our borders. They want to sign illegal aliens up for free healthcare, free welfare, free education and the right to vote. Otherwise, they don't get much. Illegal immigration cost American tax payers more than $100 billion every single year, more than 20 times the entire state budget of the sate of West Virginia. We need to use our precious resources to help low income Americans who respect our laws, not caravans who break in to our country and break our laws. We don't want that. We don't want that, I'm sorry. Now, we don't mind if they come in, but they have to come in legally. Democrat immigration policies not only drain our treasury, but they threaten our communities. Nearly 100 percent of heroin in the United States enters though the southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth and a substantial portion of the ultra lethal fentanyl killing a youth drug, fentanyl -- the worst. These drugs kill more than 70,000 Americans every single year. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers who they want to get rid of by the way, these are tough, great, strong patriots. We need strength, arrested more than 127,000. Think of that, 127,000-- Aliens- With criminal records, including those charged or convicted of 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes and 1,800 homicides. They want to get rid of them, let's get rid of ICE. What are these people thinking? That's why you have to have Patrick Morrisey and Carol. You have to vote them in on Tuesday. You have to do it. Yet Democrats want to abolish ICE, they want to turn America in to a giant sanctuary for criminal aliens, drug dealers and MS-13 killers. And by the way, we remove thousands over the last little bit less than two years that I've been here. Thousands and thousands of MS-13 gang members have been thrown the hell out of the country. A blue wave equals a crime wave -- you don't hear too much about the blue wave anymore though, do you? Remember a couple of months -- oh, the blue wave, oh the blue wave. Now they don't talk -- you know, I'm not saying they don't squeak it by, maybe because they got of races and I can't go everywhere. Can't go everywhere. But now they're talking about ( ). I mean, you know let's see what happens. Going t be an interesting day at the office. You remember that election two years ago? There were a lot of really happy people that night, but there were some that were slightly -- not too happy. Cry, baby, cry. A red wave equals jobs and safety. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans will always stand with the heroes of ICE, border patrol and our great law enforcement. You have great law enforcement right here... in West Virginia. I look at those people -- I'm looking at your law enforcement right there. I feel very safe. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, fellas. And, yes, the wall is happening. It should happen immediately. It's moving beautifully. The design is beautiful, and it's happening. And some communities in California, of all places, down to miss San Diego, we're just about finishing it up. But they're demanding the wall. They want the wall. I said, ""Let's not give it to them because then they'll put pressure on their government to build it,"" right? Now once we build it for them, they'll say, ""We shouldn't have a wall."" But they already have their wall. That's the way it works, folks. Border security is also a woman's issue. You know, they keep talking about women. Trump with women. Remember the last election? ""Well, Donald Trump won't do very well with women."" I did great with women. Look at the ( ). I did great. Right? I did great with women. In fact, at the end, when I won, they -- they said, ""You know, a statistic we got wrong, women really came out for Trump."" I said, ""Thank you. Thank you."" Same thing now. Because women want safe neighborhoods for their families, right? They want great schools, health care for their children. They want to keep drug dealers and predators and traffickers -- how about the traffickers? These are human traffickers. These are the worst scum in the world. They want them out of our country. And we do that. The Democrats don't do that. They want the open borders. Fly right in, folks. Come on in. We don't care who the hell you are, come on in. Think of it, 300 people. You know, we're getting a lot of heat because, I was saying, there were some bad people in that caravan. Right? So we checked, 300 people. I read them out to you. That is one more reason why women all across the nation are going to show up and vote Republican on Tuesday. They want security. They want safety. They don't want to have these people coming in. They don't want to have -- some of these people are just horrible people. You have to see the crimes they've committed. This election is about security, and it's about prosperity. For years, you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth and shutter our factories and steal our jobs. And you watched helplessly. We don't watch helplessly any more. Those days are over. We've added half a million manufacturing jobs -- soon to be 600,000 -- since the election, including 32,000 in just the last month. These were jobs that the previous administration said would never happen. And these are great jobs. These are among our greatest jobs. Manufacturing jobs. And thanks to our tariffs that we put on steel that was coming in, and they were dumping it all over the place and destroying our steel companies and our aluminum industry. Roaring back. Steel industry is roaring back. And for the miners, by the way, in Minnesota and other places, we're grabbing that iron ore and they're making steel. And the hottest industry -- one of the hottest industries now, look at what's happened to steel. Steel, like coal, it was going off the cliff. You weren't going to have a steel industry in this country and we need it. Certain industries you need, you need steel. You don't have steel -- you need it for defense. What are we going to go incase we're -- hopefully we'll never have a problem, ok. I made the military -- it'll be stronger than it ever was before ever and that's why you won't have a problem. You know, if you don't want to have a problem, make your military much stronger than anybody else ever thought possible, but we need steel. How about this? We don't have any -- so see our steel bills were finished. We were going down -- you guys understand that, but we were going down. Now it's so hot, but you need steel. There are certain industries you have to have -- you"
"Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I see these signs all over place, Tigers for Trump. I like that. I like that. Hello, Missouri. I'm thrilled to be back in the American heartland, right here... with the incredible men and women that make this country run. You know it, too. In just five days, the people of Missouri are going to retire far-left Democrat Claire McCaskill... who's been saying such nice things about me. But you know what? She'll never vote with me. That's the problem. She's been saying nice things. I said, I didn't know she was a Republican. She'll never vote. She'll never vote. She never has, and she didn't even vote for Justice Kavanaugh. Think of that. Didn't vote. And you're going to send Missouri patriot -- and that's what he is. He loves your state. He loves you as people. He loves this country -- Josh Hawley to the United States Senate. He's a good man. He'll be a star. Josh shares your values, and he will fight for your values all the time. So I need everyone to show up and vote. You've got to vote for Josh. And that's why I'm here, other than the fact I like you very much. And I'm actually coming back on Monday. Do you believe it? Coming back to Missouri on Monday. We've got to make sure. He's a star in our country. He is going to be something special. He's going to represent you for a long time, and he's going to represent you well. This is one of the most important elections of our lifetime. This election will decide whether we build on an extraordinary prosperity that we have achieved, probably the greatest economy in the history of our nation. Think about it. Or whether we let Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi and Claire McCaskill... and the radical Democrats wipe it all away. And they can do that. We've got to win. Under Republican leadership, America is booming. America is thriving. And America is winning because we are finally putting America first. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. More Americans are working now than any time in history. Think of that. More Americans -- just think of that. So today, right now, we have more Americans working than at any time, any time in the history of our country. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. That'll be a very good soundbite in the debate when we face one of those Democrats, whoever it may be. African American and Hispanic American poverty are at an all-time low. Our economy is at an all-time high. We've cut a record number of job-killing regulations, more than any administration in the history of our country, in less than two years, by the way, in less than two years. So we've done in less than two years what any other president or administration did in four years, in eight years, or, in one case, in more than eight years. We've cut more. Pretty good. And we have more to cut. Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. And remember the Democrats are going to substantially raise your taxes. Just what you need. We're putting our coal miners and steelworkers back to work. We're taking care of our veterans and our military... and we will soon have the most powerful military that we've ever had by far. The choice in this election could not be more clear. The Republican agenda is the mainstream agenda of the American people. It's how we all got here, the greatest movement in the history of politics in our country. It's about you, not about me. The Democrat agenda is the agenda of the extreme far left. They've gone crazy, folks. They've gone totally loco. Republicans are the party of all Americans. We welcome citizens from all walks of life and embrace freedom of thought, freedom of speech, and freedom of everything else. The Democrats are the party of rigid ideology and total conformity. They demand absolute agreement. And they dismiss, demean, and demonize anyone who questions their radical ideas. Did you ever see anything like what's going on? You can't have dinner. You can't have dinner. Do you see what they're doing to our people? I mean, see what they're doing to people that represent our thought? And we're being so nice. We're being so nice. And let's stay being nice, right? We'll stay being nice. Because we are tough as hell. We -- we're going to stay nice.  Don't forget: We've got the police. Law enforcement loves us. I don't know if they get anything out of -- I said to the police the other day, we're so high in the polls, we're trying to figure out who is representing the other side? We don't even know. We want to figure it out. But we have the police. We have law enforcement. They're great people. We have bikers for Trump. Bikers for Trump. Is that 100 percent or, like, 95 percent? We have -- the military is for us. The vets are for us. The veterans are all for us. Veterans' choice. We got 'em veterans' choice. No, we want to be nice. We're much tougher, we're much smarter, we're much more sane. We believe in the process. We don't run around like Antifa with their little arms and then go home back home into Mommy's basement... and put on the black uniform and the black helmet. Oh, it's so disappointing when those helmets fall off and you look at this weak little face, isn't it? And they hit people with clubs. You know, they hit 'em again and again. Oh, they're so lucky we're nice, oh. Oh, they're so lucky! Then they go back home and they get yelled at by Mom and Dad. The Democrats lie. And you know what? I'm going to say, because this effort is the angry far-left media. The great Ed Rollins just said, I just heard it, that never before has a president had to withstand the level of partisan assault from the media that President Trump has had to withstand. No, it's true. Because nobody ever had to take this. If we do great things, they come out bad. No matter what we do -- we could do the greatest in the world, should have gone faster. Well, they're doing that a little bit with -- not a little bit, how about a lot -- with North Korea. I took over North Korea. You know, President Obama knows they were ready to go to war. And now we're getting along. No rockets, no nothing. They say, why can't he go faster? They've been doing this for 75 years. Why can't he go -- four months. It's been a long time. Been a long time. And today, I spoke to President Xi, great guy, great man from China. And he is the boss. He's the head of China. And we spoke, and I said, look, we have to make a fair trade deal. He wants to do it. They all want to do it. We're going to the make -- lots of great things are going to happen over the next short period of time. But we had a great talk with President Xi on North Korea. We had a great -- and the border is holding. And they've been honorable. And they're doing what they said they were going to do. And my relationship with Kim Jong-un is very good. And we are getting to a point where they really want to do something. And we're not going to have to worry about millions of lives being lost and nuclear weapons going up all over the place... and flying over Japan and everybody else. No, it's been amazing. But no matter what you do, they actually got to a point -- because, you know, with North Korea, it is, we got our hostages back, right? We're getting the remains -- I don't know if you saw how beautiful that was. Mike Pence went to Hawaii. The remains of our great heroes from so many years ago are being sent back. That never happened. Nobody expected that. That was so beautiful. And they're all coming -- they're coming back. They're coming back rapidly. No more missiles going up, no more nuclear tests for a long time. If you read the papers today, it came out to the surprise of a lot of people -- not a surprise to me -- that they don't mind having people come over, the experts, and check the sites. We're doing well. And we kept the sanctions on. The sanctions are what we have, the sanctions are -- we haven't taken sanctions off. And, hopefully, we'll be able to when we're down the road. We want to take the sanctions off. We want North Korea to be very successful. But you know what? The new line, they met -- m-e-t -- they met. We met. In other words, I actually met. And that's the thing we gave up. I said, I met. How am I going to do it if I don't meet? I met. So -- so their new line is he met. And because he met, it's a terrible thing for our country. Let me tell you, we would be in a nuclear war right now if the right person didn't come along. So we're doing well. We're doing well. And again, with China, we're doing really well, too, on trade. They want to make a deal. We've got to make the right deal. Five hundred billion dollars a year for years have been coming out of this country, and lots of other things. And I said we have to make right deal. We're going to make the right deal. It's going to work out good. But we had a great conversation today that you know about, nobody else knows -- now today that's going to be the news. Sorry about that, Josh. But he understands it. He gets it. We're doing great. As a country, we're doing great. We've never done better. We are doing really well. And they're attacking me, really, because I'm fighting for you, and that's OK. That's a good reason because... because we really have to bypass the media, because it's so one-sided and unfair, in order to get straight to the American people. That's what we're doing. So that's what we're doing. And it seems to work out pretty well, because here we are. Right? Here we are, folks. But someday we're going to get a good story from these people. Someday. And it's not all of them. Look, you have some of the fine people, some of, really, finest people I know. I know reporters, journalists, others, they're fine people. But some are not honest. And we have to -- we have to just go around 'em. We just have to go around 'em, and we have gone around them like nobody in history has ever gone around them. Republicans believe in lower taxes, less regulation, and more American energy. We just became number one in the world in energy production. Thank you. It's amazing what you can do with cutting regulations that are unnecessary. Amazing. And some regulations, by way, are very necessary. I want the cleanest water on the planet. We want the cleanest air on the planet. And we've got it. But we want to keep it just that way. We've got it. Better now than ever before. Democrats want higher taxes, much higher taxes... They want many more regulations, and they want to shut down American energy. We're not shutting down American energy. It's an asset for us. Republicans want strong borders, no crime, no chaos, and no caravans.  Thank you. Thank you. And the wall is being built. We spent $1.6 billion... we spent another $1.6 billion this last year. We're getting another one -- we want to build it all at one time. We need it. They are doing everything in their power, the Democrats, to delay it and to stop it. And you need the wall. And now it's more obvious than ever. We'll get it. We'll get it. We'll get it. I don't like doing it in bits and pieces, but that's what they're forcing us to do. And, you know, we called up the military, because we're not going to let people come into our country when you look at that illegally. Not going to happen. Our great military. And I don't know if you saw the one is coming up, that's a big caravan. The only time I've seen them, they underestimate the crowd. They want to underestimate that crowd, which is easy for them, actually, to do. But that's a lot of people. Now if you see what's going on in El Salvador, and if you see what's going on in Honduras, and if you see what's going on in lots of places, they're starting little mini-caravans. Not going to happen, folks. And the second -- I call it caravan number two. That one came out. Did you see these? Did you see how tough these young men, mostly young men, strong, tough, what they did to the police, the Mexican police, in breaking through the border? What they did -- what they did to the Mexican military in breaking through the border? These are tough people. These are not angels. These are not little angels. These are tough people. And we're not letting them into our country. They're not coming in illegally. Right? And you take a look at the scene, where thousands and thousands of people are marching, and then you hear that Democrats want to have open borders, and they want to invite caravan after caravan into our country, overwhelming your schools, your hospitals, and your communities. And by the way, those caravans, you know, you look at what's happening, does anybody think that's just by accident that they're forming? Does anybody think -- does anybody think? You know, I think what happened -- I really believe somebody was involved that's not on our side of the ledger. Somebody was involved. And then somebody else told them, you made a big mistake. Look at what happened. You have made a big mistake, because people have really galvanized over this. We want people to come into our country, but they have to come into our country legally and through merit. And through merit. We need people. With a 3.7 percent unemployment, we have many, many companies moving back into our country. I was with Prime Minister Abe of Japan. He gave me company after company -- automobile company -- moving to Michigan, moving to Ohio, moving to Pennsylvania. You don't really need 'em over here, you're doing so well. But you want one? I'll get you one, too. No, but they're moving. And I'm not just talking about automobile companies. You look at -- look at how well your economy's doing now. Your economy was horrible a number of years ago. Look at your economy. Look what's happened. But we need people to come in to help run -- North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida. We need people to help run these massive car companies and other companies. Look what we got, Foxconn, one of the great companies of the world, what they did in Wisconsin for Governor Walker. I mean, what he's done, what he did -- and I was very much involved with that one, and I want to give him full credit, because, I'll tell you what, I gave him that one, and he took it, and got it done. It's one of the great companies of the world, and you have to see what they built. You have to see what they built in Wisconsin. Scott Walker. You have to see what they built. It's incredible, actually. It's as good as anything I've ever seen. But we need people. But we need people that can do the job. We need people -- it has to be based on merit. No more lotteries. Oh, let's see, lottery, lottery, who are these people? You know, when countries do lotteries and they put people in a lottery, do you really believe they're giving us their finest?  And then we have problems, and we say we don't understand it. Republicans want judges who will interpret our Constitution as written. They don't want to make 'em up. Democrats want judges who will rewrite the Constitution to impose their own radical views. And you see that happening at the border, and you see it happening all over. But we've appointed a lot of judges. We'll soon have a record in the number of federal district judges and judges that we've appointed. And, of course, two Supreme Court judges. Two Supreme Court -- two great justices of the Supreme Court. A few weeks ago, we achieved that historic victory for our Constitution and for the rule of law. We defeated the Democrat mob and proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, who was treated very, very unfairly, by the way, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Justice Kavanaugh was treated as unfairly as any human being I've ever seen. I've never seen anything like it. But in the end, they all got smart, and we got him on. He was supposed to be a Supreme Court judge, like, 10 years ago, 12 years ago, long before I did this. I used to hear about a man named Brett Kavanaugh who someday will be on the Supreme Court, because of the intellect. Great scholar. Great everything. And then he gets treated like the way he was treated? How unfair was that? But we got him in, and this will be the election of Kavanaugh, the caravans, law and order, tax cuts, and common sense. Common sense. A Republican Congress means more jobs and less crime. A Democrat Congress means more crime and less jobs. And that sort of works. That's pretty good, isn't it? Wow. I'd almost like to repeat that. That's pretty good. This election is a choice between Republican results and radical resistance. It's a choice between greatness and gridlock. It's a choice between jobs and mobs. And it's a choice between an economy that is going strong and the Democrats who are going crazy. So true. So this November 6th, vote against the Democrats and vote for commonsense Republicans. You're going to drain the swamp, you're going to replace the Democrats. It's happening. It's happening so fast. It's happening faster than anybody can believe. You know, it's all happening much faster than anybody could believe. Even one of them recently said that President Trump made promises, but he's kept many more promises. I mean, far more than I made. Think of it. It's true. It's true. It's true. And we're not even that close to the second year, you know? We're not that close, right? We still have a couple of months to go. And we've done a lot. We are honored tonight to be joined by a man that I've gotten to know very well, one of your Republican great people, and a great leader, Governor Mike Parsons. Mike? Where's Mike? Thanks, Mike. You're doing a great job. But I want to take full credit for what's happened in Missouri, Mike, is that OK? Great job, Mike. Thank you. A friend of mine who's so outstanding, he's with us all the time, who works hard, loves the people of this state and loves this state, Senator Roy Blunt. Thanks, Roy. Great guy. And representatives, congressmen, women, great people that really work, and they always -- they always are with us. They never let us down. Blaine Luetkemeyer... Vicky Hartzler... a man who did an auction recently. That was the coolest thing I've seen in a long time, you know? You get used to watching those hearings, and you're just falling asleep. And then you hear this sound, you say, what the hell is that? It was Billy Long. How good was he? And is he a great guy? Congressman Billy Long. Great guy. Great friend of mine. And, of course, a man who, again, loves this state and loves the people and gets it done, never lets us down, Jason Smith. Jason? Thank you, Jason. Great group. Thank you also to former United States Attorney General John Ashcroft and his son, Secretary of State Jay Ashcroft, for being here. Thank you both. Thank you, fellas. We're especially proud to be joined by a star. This is somebody that's going to win. He's going to go on to great, great things in our country. And he's been a winner from day one. We're very proud of him. He's doing well. He's up in the polls. But do yourself -- just pretend he's one point down, please, OK? Because he is outstanding. We cannot take a chance on something going awry on Tuesday. That's why I'm coming again on Monday. We can't take that chance. You people in Missouri, you're going to say, I can't believe it, the president's here again! But I'm here, because I believe in Josh Hawley. And come on up, Josh. Come on. Isn't it an incredible honor to have President Donald Trump in Missouri? It's amazing. It's amazing. You know, you know, President Trump won in the state of Missouri in 2016 by 20 points. Twenty points! More than anybody. And President Trump is delivering for Missouri. He's delivering. Now, the only thing is, I noticed that some of those career politicians in Washington, D.C., haven't noticed and haven't gotten with the program. Like, for instance, Senator Claire McCaskill. It's sad. You know, President Trump, President Trump is putting pro-Constitution, pro-America judges on the bench, but Claire McCaskill voted no. President Trump is securing our border, but Claire McCaskill, she voted no. She voted no. You know, Senator McCaskill voted for amnesty. She voted against the wall. Now she's sponsoring an open borders bill in the United States Congress. Is that what we want? President Trump -- President Trump lowered your taxes. But Claire McCaskill voted no! You know, I guess the only thing I can think of that can explain it is Claire McCaskill did say that she thinks that the reason President Trump got elected was because of the Russians. Yeah, I'm serious. Yeah. Right. What she doesn't realize is, he's president of the United States because of the Missourians, because of us! When I look at Senator McCaskill's record, I have to say, Mr. President, it really reminds me of another career politician that you recently defeated. It reminds me of the person that Claire thinks should be president, Hillary Clinton. I mean, get this. Get this...  You know, Claire McCaskill -- Claire McCaskill has spent her lifetime in politics, just like Hillary. Claire McCaskill has made a boatload of money on federal taxpayers, just like Hillary. Claire McCaskill even has a phony foundation that rakes in millions of dollars a year, pays no taxes, just like Hillary. You know, Claire McCaskill -- Claire McCaskill wanted us to call Hillary Clinton Madam President. Well -- well, on November the 6th, because of the leadership of Donald Trump, on November the 6th, we're going to call Claire McCaskill fired. Let's go get it done!  So Josh Hawley will be one of the greatest champions for Missouri that you've ever had, and you've had some good ones, by the way. You've had some good ones, haven't you? Josh is running against far-left Democrat and card-carrying member of the Washington, D.C., group that we all know so much about, Claire McCaskill, who, by the way, I've seen commercials, I've seen her statements. She now all of a sudden loves border security. Where did that come from? Did you -- today! I was watching her interview, and every time -- every third sentence, like, we love Trump. We love border security. The president's right about border security. I said, what happened to her? Look, the fact is, she wants to get elected, and then she's always going to vote against us, folks. OK? A vote for Claire is a vote to make Chuck Schumer majority leader and to enact the extreme agenda of Nancy Pelosi and, of course, the legendary Maxine Waters. Claire McCaskill promised to represent the people of Missouri, but she broke that promise and joined radical Democrats in Washington. She's not representing Missouri. And Josh said it, I won by 20 points. I know the people. I know the people. Your senator, Senator Blunt, knows me very well. He will tell you. I know the area well. We campaigned, we worked together, and we know the people. That's not what you want. You don't want Claire McCaskill. She voted against the massive tax cuts that you got. And by the way, she will end up trying -- with them, they've got a long way to go -- trying to increase your taxes very substantially. She voted against Neil Gorsuch. And she joined the Democrat mob and voted against our great Justice Brett Kavanaugh. She's got one of the most open borders, until today, voting records in Congress. Today she changed. I must take that back. Did she change? Maybe. Josh, did she change? She's totally for open borders, but today she thinks I'm right. I don't know. But you know what? On November 7th, she'll say I was wrong. Claire McCaskill voted no on Kate's law. She voted no on enhanced vetting for refugees. Just let 'em come in, folks. Let 'em come in. Did you see the guy today, they interviewed him? I put it on social media, because I'm being nice. And they said, well, what do you want? Well, I want a pardon, I want a pardon. A woman, like -- she's like this reporter, I guess. And innocent, nice. Oh, you want a pardon? What did you to? What did you do? What did you do? Murder. Murder! Homicide, something. What did you do? Murder. And she -- this is one of the people in the caravan, by way. What did you do? Murder. You want murder? You want a pardon? This is -- can you believe what's going on in this country? But we're getting a change. This big ship is turning a lot faster than anyone thought possible. And remember that Claire McCaskill voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities. We don't want sanctuary cities. So don't listen to what Claire says. Just look at how she votes. All you have to do is take a look. She votes with the crazy Democrats, and they have gone crazy. A vote for Claire is a vote for more taxes, more crime, and more illegal immigration. Very simple. And just to finish up, you vote for Josh, you're going to reduce your taxes, you're going to substantially reduce crime. We're doing great, anyway, considering we have the worst immigration laws in the history of the world, the dumbest laws, laws that make no sense on illegal immigration. But we're doing well anyway. We're taking thousands and thousands of MS-13 gang members, and we're throwing 'em the hell out of the country back where they came from. And you know who's doing that? Law enforcement and ICE. They want to get rid of ICE. And nobody in this room -- I see a couple of guys that wouldn't mind, I see a couple of people. I see one woman there that wouldn't mind, too. But nobody here wants to do that. And they do it. It's like a day in the office. They're tough, and they're smart. And that's what you have to be. You have to be tough. These people, they call them nests. You go into a nest. They are bad. Everyone needs to show up and vote for Josh Hawley. Please do it. Please do it. A majority of the Democrats on the ballot for Congress have already signed up to support a total socialist takeover of health care that would totally destroy Medicare. So true. The Democrat plan would eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 400,000 Missouri seniors who depend on it. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it. And guess what? They've paid for it. They've been paying for it for a long time. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. The Democrat plan also raids Medicare to fund benefits for illegal aliens. That's great. Democrats are the party of open borders, socialism, and crime, whether you like it or not. As we speak, the Democrat Party is openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and bankrupt our country, and they want to sign them up for free health care, free welfare, free education, and, of course, the right to vote. Great. And the Democrats want to continue giving automatic birthright citizenship to every child born to an illegal alien. Even if they've been on our soil for a mere matter of seconds. Hundreds of thousands of children born to illegal immigrants are made automatic citizens of the United States every year because of this crazy, lunatic policy that we can end. That we can end. We need support, but we can do it. And they're all made instantly eligible for every privilege and benefit of American citizenship. All of you? You get nothing more than they do. They're full citizens. And it's costing us many, many billions of dollars a year. You don't realize what a big industry -- it's an industry. And many come from China. You'll be surprised. China now is number one. We're not talking just South America, Latin America. We're talking about China, parts of Asia. It's crazy. Think of it. You're an enemy of our country. You're a general with war on your mind. You're a dictator who we hate and who's against us. And that dictator has his wife have a baby on American soil. Congratulations. Your son or daughter is now an American citizen. Does anybody think this makes sense? Does anybody think it makes sense? Congratulations, General, you have a United States citizen as your daughter. It's crazy. It's crazy. But we're getting it all worked out. This policy has even created an entire industry. It's called, you know, birth tourism, where pregnant mothers from all over the world travel to America to make their children instant lifelong citizens with guaranteed everything. Everything. Everything that you have is guaranteed. Welfare, public benefits, right? Birthright citizens in turn can then bring their entire extended family into our country through chain migration. That's another beauty. Chain migration. You come into the country, you're like two months old, and you're going to take your brother and your sister and your mother and your father. You're going to bring 'em all, aunts and uncles and grandfathers, and lots of people. I tell the story, we have -- a horrible incident took place on West Side Highway a year ago, where a maniac decided to kill people, so he's driving his car at a very, very high rate of speed along a park right along the beautiful Hudson River. And there's a group of people working out and running and all sorts of things, recreation, most beautiful park along the river. And he decides to hang a right and run over many people. Eight people died. They never mention all the people that have been so horrifically injured, where they lose arms and legs and everything else. They never mention. They say eight people died. What they don't tell you is that many arms lost, many legs lost. So they got him, this maniac. He'll be in court for the next 20 years, you know, fighting, claiming something with some good lawyer. But we'll get him eventually. And what happens? He is a man that through chain migration brought in his mother, his father, his uncles, his brothers, his sisters. They think it's probably 22 people came on and into this country because of this guy who killed eight people and so gravely wounded and injured so many more. It's a disgrace. And we've got to change our laws. And the Democrats refuse to do it. And it's not because they don't know right from wrong. They think it's good politically for them to make us all go through hell to get those laws changed. We're going to get 'em changed, OK? Democrats want to spend your money and give away your resources to the benefit of everyone but the American citizens. We're changing that rapidly, if you've noticed. If you want a government that cares about you, vote Republican. If you want your children to have a country, vote Republican. You won't have a country. If you don't want America to be overrun by masses of illegal aliens and giant caravans, you'd better vote Republican. If you want to keep drugs, gangs, crimes, if you want to keep human traffickers -- think of that. In the history of our -- human traffickers, they steal, they kidnap women. Many, many, many women. But they kidnap people. And it's a big business because of the internet. It's worse today worldwide, worse today than ever before. Think of it. The human traffickers. Who would even think this goes on? These are horrible, horrible people. And we are working on that so hard. It's because of the internet. The internet gives them this tremendous advantage. They use the internet for horrible, horrible means, including ISIS, which as you know we've done a very serious number with... But we're going to keep these people out of our country. Vote Republican. And I told you, we're finishing the wall, we're working on the wall, we're taking down MS-13. We're supporting the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and law enforcement. You are going to get Josh Hawley. We're going to finish it up. We're so far ahead of schedule, it's incredible. This election is about safety, and it's also about your prosperity. We're going to keep it going. In less than two years' time, we have created over -- think of this -- we've created, in less than -- nobody would believe it. The wonderful media back there -- I'm trying to be nice -- the wonderful media, if I would have said during the campaign that we're going to create 4.2 million new jobs since the election and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps, they'd say, how can he dare say a thing like that? Well, that's what we did. Far, far, far greater than anyone thought. We've created almost 600,000 new manufacturing jobs. You remember the previous administration? We can't create manufacturing jobs anymore. They're the best jobs. They're the most important jobs. They're great jobs. And they're high-paying jobs. And we do it better than anybody, 600,000. And it's going up rapidly as these companies come back into the United States. They all want to be "
"Hello, Florida. Hello, Florida. We love you, Florida. And I'm thrilled to be back in this great state, the great state of Florida, with thousands of hard-working American patriots. It's an important time in our country. In just six days, the people of Florida are going to send Rick Scott to the United States Senate... and Ron DeSantis will be your next governor. Rick and Ron. Before going any further, I want to take a moment to address the horrific shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. It was terrible. Eleven Americans were brutally murdered in an evil, anti-Semitic attack. Yesterday, I traveled to Pittsburgh to meet with the families and first responders. And I especially want to thank Rabbi Jeffrey Myers. He was terrific. He was terrific. Fine man. We grieve for the families of the fallen, and we send our eternal gratitude to the law enforcement officers who sustained severe injuries taking down the gunman. They were incredible. They were incredible. They were incredible. Could've been -- as bad as it was -- and it was bad -- it could have been far worse. They were unbelievable, and they got there fast. We pledge our resolve to remove the vile poison of anti-Semitism and so many other problems from our world, and we reaffirm our unbreakable solidarity with the Jewish people. Thank you. Yesterday's visit to Pittsburgh was about coming together as a nation to comfort and to heal. After this day of unity and togetherness, I came home and sadly turned on the news and watched as the far-left media once again used tragedy to sow anger and division.  Sadly, they took a small group of protesters, far away from where we were, because we could not have been treated better, the first lady and myself, but we're representing the presidency. And they did everything in their power to try to play it up and push people apart. That's what's happening. They're pushing people apart. It was fake, and it was make-believe, what they said. I came home, looked forward to seeing it, and it was sad. And when we talk about division, this is a big part of the division right there. The far-left media has spread terrible lies and stories about the Trump administration and the tens of millions of people who make up our great movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. The greatest! The greatest. The greatest movement in the history of our country, and they don't even refute that fact. It is possibly the greatest political movement anywhere. I can't think of any place else. It's because of you. The movement is you, and it's about you. Not me. It's about you. I am proud of the fact that my administration has boldly revitalized our nation's historic bond with Israel and moved the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. And remember, many presidents have promised to do that, many, many, many presidents. ""We are going to move the embassy to Jerusalem,"" and then they don't do it. The reason is, it is not an easy thing to do. I've done it. And by the way, the embassy is already built. It's already open. And it came in $1 billion less than people thought. They should like that. They should really like it. We've taken aggressive measures against the terrorist groups that seek the s  of innocent people all around the world for lots of different reasons. It's terrible. We've taken unprecedented action to confront the regime in Iran, and we have ended the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear catastrophe. And Iran is a much different country today than the country that started off at the beginning of our administration almost two years ago. We have forcefully condemned hatred, bigotry, racism, and prejudice in all of its ugly forms, but the media doesn't want you to hear your story. It's not my story. It's your story. And that's why 33 percent of the people in this country believe the fake news is, in fact -- and I hate to say this -- in fact, the enemy of the people. The left-wing media doesn't want to solve problems. They want to stoke resentment. It has to stop. They believe that progress isn't good for profit or for whatever reason it is they're playing their game. Our movement is about safe homes, great jobs for every citizen. Our movement is about love for our fellow Americans. Our movement is for everyone and belongs to anyone who wants to build a better future. You can do it right here in the USA. Right here. Just look at the amazing things that we have all done working together. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. More Americans are working today than at any point in the history of our country. More -- think of that. How do you lose that debate when I'm up against one of these people that we're seeing and watching? Oh, I hope one of them gets that nomination. When you say more people are working today than at any point in the history of our country, I think the debate is over. Hispanic American and African American poverty have reached all-time lows. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment have all achieved their lowest levels in recorded history. We have eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations, more than any other administration, no matter how long it went. We did that quickly. We passed a massive tax cut, biggest tax cut, for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. And the Democrats want to raise your taxes substantially. Remember that. Remember what Nancy Pelosi said: We will raise your taxes. And I'm trying to say, uh, is that good politics? I don't think so. But she really believes it. They want to raise your taxes. And all that we've built, it's very fragile. Somebody can destroy it pretty quickly if they don't know what they're doing. We are taking care of our veterans. We are taking care of our military. And we will soon be more powerful than we have ever been before, our military. Our military is being rebuilt at a level that nobody can even believe. New planes, new rockets, new missiles, new ships. New satellites. Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning because we are finally putting America first.  But everything we have achieved -- and it's monumental -- is at stake in this election. Democrats want to erase our prosperity and reverse our progress. In less than one week, Americans will go to the polls in one of the most important elections of our entire lives. Although, I will say, not as important as 2016, but... I'd like to say, but not really. Republicans want strong borders, no crime, no chaos, and no caravans. Democrats want open borders, and they want to invite caravan after caravan into our country, which brings crime upon crime. A vote for Democrats is a vote to liquidate America's borders. And it's a vote to let meth, fentanyl, heroin, and other deadly drugs pour across our borders, drugs that take the lives of over -- think of this -- over 70,000 Americans a year. If you want high taxes and high crime, vote for the Democrats. Vote for the Democrats.  And the wall is being built. We just spent $1.6 billion on a big section. Another $1.6 billion now. We have another $1.6 billion coming, but we want to build it all at one time. All at one time. Not in little pieces. But we're getting prepared for the caravan, folks. You don't have to worry about that. Getting prepared for the caravan. And they've got a lot of rough people in those caravans. They are not angels. They are not. You saw what happened two days ago with the Mexican military and the Mexican police. You saw what happened there, how tough the opposition is. We're tougher than anybody. We're tougher than any force. And we're probably going to have to be, unfortunately. I tell them turn back, and they're not going to be released. It's called catch, but we take the word release out. We're not releasing anymore. It's catch. We have no choice. If you want low taxes and low crime, vote Republican. This election is truly a choice between results and resistance. How about their whole theme, obstruct, resist. What the hell do you get out of that? Resist? They want to resist. Great, resist. It's the only thing they're good at. They resist and they stick together. That is true. They stick together, great. But that's about it. They have bad policy, bad politicians, but they do stick together. Between greatness -- and this is really an election between greatness and gridlock. It will be gridlock. And it's a choice between an economy that is going strong and setting records at every level and the Democrats, who are going absolutely crazy, folks. They're going crazy. So you have to go out on November 6th or sooner -- who voted? Who voted? Oh, wow! Everybody voted already? No kidding. Let me see it again. Who voted? Then what the hell am I doing here tonight? Goodbye. What am I doing here? Boy. That's like 100 percent of the people in this room voted. All right. Let's just enjoy ourselves, OK? I can skip to that. But actually you see all the people back there? Looks like -- looks like the Academy Awards. I call them the Academy Awards. And by the way, I have to say this. You have some very good people also as reporters and journalists. I know some incredible people. You have some that are not good at all. You have some very good people, too. I want to say that. You have some very good people. We are honored to be joined tonight by many great Florida Republicans, including a man who's so great to me on television. This guy is special. He was a great businessman. Now he's a great congressman, Francis Rooney. Where's Francis? I love him when he defends me. He's brutal. He gets the job done, right, Francis? Thank you, man. Thank you. Another man, great, great talent, young, handsome, going places. You talk about defending, he's fantastic. Matt Gaetz. Thank you, Matt. Great job. These guys on television are very proficient, I have to be honest with you. A man who people love and the state loves, a congressman who's done a fantastic job, he's always there, works so hard, Gus Bilirakis. Gus? Thank you, Gus. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Along with the next congressman from Florida's 17th district, Greg Steube. Greg? Greg Steube. And your state's chief financial officer, he watches all that money that pours in, Jim Patronis. Jim, thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you, Jim. You know, they don't tell me where these people are sitting. You've got -- you've got -- this place has thousands of people. I sort of have to guess. I sort of have to guess. But we get it right. We're especially proud to be joined by the next United States senator from Florida, Governor Rick Scott. Great guy. Governor Scott is doing a truly incredible job, leading your state's Hurricane Michael response, all of the hurricanes, all of the problems. He takes the problem and he turns it into an asset. He is an unbelievable talent. He works harder than anybody. Always calls up with good news. ""Yeah, I've got this one taken care of, that one taken care of."" He's a real -- he really is, he's a talent. And we send our prayers to the Florida Panhandle, people we love, and everyone in that storm's path. That was a giant -- that was a tornado that was 50 times wider. That was brutal. We went there. We visited. We had houses ripped off their foundations. And even the foundations were gone. Nobody's seen anything like it. Together we will ensure that Florida comes back stronger than ever, already happening. And you remember our hurricane last year, the response that we gave was A-plus, and Rick and everybody in Florida did a phenomenal job. Rick and Ron also worked closely with us to pass legislation to build a reservoir south of Lake Okeechobee. That was an expensive one. To clean Florida's water. That's a big one. That's a big one. Those two guys worked hard on that. Rick Scott is one of the best governors in Florida's history. He's considered one of the best governors -- maybe the best governor, but one of the very, very top, elite governors anywhere in the country, and if elected, he will keep the Florida boom in full swing. Rick Scott always delivers for the people of Florida. Rick Scott, please come up. Rick? Good evening! Are we not honored to have President Donald Trump in Florida? We want him every day. So let me tell you about your president. In the last year, we've had two hurricanes. Every day he calls me. Every time I call him, he says, ""What do you need? I'll do anything you want. Take care of your citizens."" There is absolutely nothing that I have asked from Donald Trump with regard to these two hurricanes that he hasn't come through. Let's give a big round of   for your president. So, Hurricane Michael was horrible. About 30 mile wide, 150 mile-an-hour winds, 14 foot of storm surge. But guess what? People from all over this country came down here and took care of our citizens. They brought food, water, generators, tarps. They did everything to take care of our citizens. And you know what? They didn't say, oh, what party are you? No. They said we're going to help every citizen of this state, just like your president did. They did -- everybody came down. We can do -- we can do the exact same thing in Washington. We can bring this country together and make this country the place where all of us can be proud of. Let me tell you what this president's also done. He said he wants every child, every adult to live the dream of this country. I grew up in a very poor family. I lived in public housing. He wants every child like that to have -- have a great education and their parents to have the best paying jobs. And he's doing it every day. Now, let me tell you about my opponent. And here's your choices. Senator Bill Nelson cares about one job, his. In Florida, in the last eight years, we've added one million, six hundred thousand private-sector jobs, not government jobs. Senator Bill Nelson has been in office for 42 years. He voted against the Trump tax cuts. He's voted for higher taxes over 300 times. In the last eight years in Florida, we've cut taxes almost 100 times, $10 billion. Senator Bill Nelson, when he took office, the national debt was about $600 billion. It's now almost $21 billion. Thank you, Senator Nelson. In Florida, we've cut our debt by $11 billion -- almost $11 billion in eight years. Senator Bill Nelson is for catch-and-release. President Trump and Rick Scott, we want a secure border. We want you to be safe. The choice is clear. You want somebody that's going to go to D.C. and do what we've done here and make sure we cut taxes, like President Trump has done, cut regulations, like President Trump has done, and work on paying down debt. Now... I have a 6-year-old grandson. He says, Grandpa, how are you going to win the election? I said you get more votes than any other person. It's as simple as that. Everybody here can vote tomorrow if you've not voted. We have early voting in every county in this state. Vote. Vote. Vote. Take a friend, get out to vote. We can win all these elections. We can make sure that we -- make sure that we continue to turn this country away -- around. Thank you for the opportunity to here. Thank you again, President Trump, for all you've done for our great state. Great job, thank you. I know him well. He wants to go right now back to work. He wants to work. Rick is running against far-left Democrat Bill Nelson. You know that. A vote for Bill Nelson is a vote for Chuck Schumer. Remember this. Chuck Schumer -- and they want to enact the radical agenda of Nancy Pelosi. During his three decades in Congress, Bill Nelson has developed one of the worst voting records of any lawmaker. Nelson voted against your tax cuts. He voted against virtually everything that we want, including regulation cuts. He voted against Neil Gorsuch and again Brett Kavanaugh. Figure that one. Bill Nelson voted against Kate's law, and he voted to support deadly sanctuary cities that release drug traffickers and violent predators into Florida communities because Bill Nelson wants open borders. We don't want open borders. Our country can't survive with open borders. If you want a leader who shares your values and who will fight for your families, you need to get out and vote for Rick Scott. Now, I'm really talking about the people on television, because everybody in here has voted. All the people on television, vote for Rick Scott. Finally, I'm thrilled to introduce the next governor of Florida, a great gentleman, Ron DeSantis. Ron is a veteran and he's a patriot, and he will continue the incredible jobs boom. And boom, you just look -- look at what's happening to this state. This is my state, also. Look at what's going on in the great state of Florida. He'll continue what Governor Scott began. Florida's economy is one of the hottest anywhere in the nation, anywhere in the world, and Ron DeSantis is going to keep it that way. Ron will keep your taxes going way down, jobs going way up, and he will always support our veterans, our military, and our law enforcement. Ron, come on up. Is southwest Florida Trump country or what? I'm proud to say that of the candidates running for governor, I'm the only one that has worn the uniform and served in our military. I'm the only candidate that ain't going to raise your taxes here in Florida. And I'm the only guy that can credibly say I'm not under investigation for corruption by the FBI. As governor, I will protect our economy. And that means we cannot raise taxes. We need to continue to recruit businesses here. And I believe Florida can boom like never before. Andrew Gillum wants to raise taxes by 40 percent. That will cost jobs, cost us business, stop the investment into Florida. We can't let that happen. I'll also stand by our men and women in law enforcement and protect Florida's communities. Andrew Gillum is a failed mayor. In Tallahassee, they've had the highest crime rate in Florida under his leadership. And last year, they had the highest number of murders in the history of the city. He signed a pledge attacking our men and women in law enforcement saying police and prisons have no place in justice. He cannot keep Florida safe. And you need to come out and vote for me, because I will protect Florida's communities. Andrew Gillum wants to abolish ICE. He wants to have open borders. He would allow sanctuary cities and would turn Florida into a sanctuary state. I can tell you this... As governor, I will never allow Florida to be a sanctuary state. We will protect your health care. Andrew Gillum is hanging out with Bernie Sanders. And what they want to do... They call it Medicare for all, but if you read the fine print, every senior loses Medicare or Medicare Advantage under their plan. They get dumped on a single-payer government system. If you get insurance through your business, that is taken away from you by force, and you are thrown onto a single-payer government plan. Government -- government has no right to take away the health care benefits that you're earning. You deserve to keep it. As governor, I will work with the president and with the Trump administration to make sure that we get the resources we need to clean our water and clean our rivers and protect our way of life here in the state of Florida. Now, Andrew Gillum can't work. He's running on impeaching the president. For what? You know, I don't know what he's thinking about impeachment. I mean, this is a guy that took bribes from an undercover FBI agent, took money from a lobbyist, did favors for the lobbyist. Maybe we should impeach Gillum as mayor of Tallahassee.  As governor, I will look to the president for -- he made promises to you when he ran that he would appoint solid constitutionalists to the U.S. Supreme Court and the Courts of Appeals, and he has delivered. We have two great judges on the U.S. Supreme Court and more appeals judges than any president at this point in history. And as governor, I will appoint solid constitutionalists to our state Supreme Court. We will end judicial activism in Florida once and for all. As governor, I will protect your Second Amendment rights. So it's an honor to have the president here. I want to thank him for what he's done for our economy. I want to thank him for what he's done to fight terrorism. I want to thank him for what he's done for our military, which is stronger than ever. And as an Iraq war veteran, I want to thank him for what he has done to stand by our veterans. So we need your support between now and November 6th. Come out, pull the lever for Ron DeSantis, and I will protect Florida's future for a generation. Thank you. God bless. Thank you. Thanks. Wow. So Ron is running against a radical socialist who wants to turn Florida, frankly, into Venezuela. Get used to it. It's what's going to happen, too. Andrew Gillum wants to take a wrecking ball to one of the most successful economies anywhere in the world, the Florida economy, with massive tax hikes, crippling regulations, and a socialist health care takeover that would destroy your state. Andrew Gillum wants to throw open your borders to drug dealers, human traffickers, gang members, and criminal aliens. And Gillum supports deadly sanctuary cities. He wants to abolish ICE. And he signed an extreme left-wing pledge that supported an end to all borders. Oh, that's great. That's what we want. Let those people pour right in, folks. Let them come enjoy you on your front lawn. Andrew Gillum is too extreme for the people of Florida. You're not going to -- you're not going to take it long. And he's also weak on crime. On Andrew Gillum's watch, there were more murders last year -- you just heard it -- I think Ron probably saw my speech, but everybody knows it -- than any year in the history of Tallahassee. You know that. And Gillum is weak on corruption. Tallahassee is among the most corrupt cities anywhere in the United States. Is this really what you want in the state of Florida? Is this really what you want? And I have to tell you about Bill Nelson for a second. So he's running against our great Rick. I'm in Florida a lot. I have a lot of different things in Miami and Palm Beach, and I stay here. And it's a great place. But I never see Bill Nelson. I never see -- I was commenting on it the other day. I'm here a lot. I never see Senator Nelson ever, until six months before the election, and then you don't see anybody else but him. You never see him. And he's just a vote for Schumer. He will always 100 percent vote for Schumer. He will never, ever vote for what we want. So Bill Nelson and Andrew Gillum would be a disaster for Florida's economy, your jobs, your safety. The people of Florida are going to reject socialism and elect Ron DeSantis and Rick Scott. A majority of Democrats on the ballot for Congress have already signed up to support a socialist takeover of health care that would destroy Medicare, eliminate Medicare Advantage for nearly 2 million Florida seniors. The Democrat plan is especially unfair to Hispanic Americans. One out of two Hispanic seniors is enrolled in Medicare Advantage. You know that. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors, who have earned it. And they've paid for it. They've been paying for it. And we will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. Always. Always. The Democrat plan also raids Medicare to fund benefits for illegal aliens at the expense of our seniors. People of Florida, as we speak, the Democrat Party -- do you notice, I don't say Democratic -- I say Democrat, because that's their name, even though the other flows so much nicer. The Democratic Party. They should change their name and send me a check for giving them some free advice. But it's not the Democratic. It's called the Democrat Party -- is openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders. You see what's happening right now, because they won't give us any votes on border security and overwhelm our country. And they want to sign them up for free health care, free welfare, free education, and the right to vote. And the Democrats want to continue giving automatic birthright citizenship to every child born to an illegal alien. Even if they've been on our soil for only a matter of seconds, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrant children are made automatic citizens every year because of this crazy policy, and they are made instantly eligible for every privilege and benefit of American citizenship at a cost of billions of dollars a year. That's what it costs, billions. Back before the Democrat Party went crazy, they also opposed this practice. Harry Reid said no sane country, quote, no sane country would grant automatic citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants. That's what he said. That's before he went crazy. Under this policy, anyone who breaks into our country and has a child, the very next moment, that child would be made a citizen for life. Great. This policy has even created an entire industry of birth tourism -- big business -- where pregnant mothers travel to America to make their children instant American citizens. Congress has never passed a law requiring birthright citizenship for illegal aliens, and the Constitution does not -- I say that to the media -- does not require it -- read it -- because illegal aliens are not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.  Democrats also support the insane policy of catch-and-release, which has created our border crisis, our certainly helped. A Democrat victory on Election Day would be a bright flashing invitation to traffickers, smugglers, drug dealers, and gang members all over the world, come on in. That's what you're saying. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. And the Republican Party will always stand proudly with the heroes -- that's what they are -- heroes of ICE, Border Patrol, and law enforcement. And I saw that yesterday in Pittsburgh. And, yes, we will finish the wall. It's moving along. We want to do it fast. Want to do it much faster. But watch what we do. Instead of building a little bit of a wall down there very quickly, watch. You watch. Watch, watch. It's going to be very interesting over the next week. If you want safe communities and strong borders, vote for Rick Scott and Ron DeSantis. This election is about safety, and it's also about prosperity. Florida manufacturing jobs are growing at their fastest rate ever recorded. Earlier this month, I announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal with an incredible brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. USMCA, folks, USMCA. Great deal. We opened them up. We've also taken the toughest ever action to crack down on China's abusive trade practices. And we're winning very big. We're winning. Very big. After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country, thank you very much. And every day, it's promises made, promises kept. You know that. In fact, one of these fine people said recently, you know, actually, he's promised certain things and he's fulfilled more than he's promised, which is true. Which is true. We passed veterans' choice. For many, many years, they were trying to get it, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor when they have to wait on line for weeks and weeks and weeks, get sicker and sicker. Can you imagine -- can you imagine -- we passed veterans' choice. They've been trying to get it passed for 44 years, and I got it passed two months ago. Now they see a line when they go to their doctor, we pay the bill, and, boy, it works out great. They're very happy. And the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure anyone who mistreats our veterans has to be accountable. In other words, you're fired, get out. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military. And I know most of you don't care about this that are in the military, but we gave our great warriors their largest pay increase in over 10 years. I know you don't care about that. And at my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces, the Space Force. So important. That's where it's at. It's all about space. Very soon, it's going to all about space. And we're going to be stronger, as we are almost everywhere now, stronger than anyone by far. Together we've made extraordinary progress, but we are just getting started. If you vote Republican this November, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and raise your incomes, which is what we've been doing. We will protect Medicare. And we will protect, just like I've been saying since that first debate, we will protect your Social Security. With all the pressure, we have protected your Social Security. Remember I made that promise. Remember everybody else said, oh, we have to do something. I've been saying we're going to protect your Social Security. Guess what? We haven't let anyone touch it. We will continue to confirm judges who will interpret our Constitution as written. And we will fully secure the border. Watch. We will pass Kate's law and stop sanctuary cities. We will stop catch-and-release. We will end visa lottery. How about visa lottery? Pick a name, pick a name, come on into the country. And we will end chain migration. Birthright citizenship, you know all about it. We will keep the criminals, the drug dealers, we will keep them all out of our country. We will get rid of all of this. We will end finally birthright citizenship. It's costing us so many billions of dollars. People didn't want to bring it up. I said we have to bring it up. Everybody knows. Everybody knows for many years. But for years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America. You now have a president who is standing up proudly for America. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for Florida. And we are standing up very proudly for our great national anthem. You don't hear too much about that anymore, do you, folks, huh? You don't hear too much about it. But to continue our incredible momentum, you must go out and vote for Rick and Ron. Loyal citizens like you help build this country, and together we are taking back our country, returning power to you, the American people, which is true. It's been your movement. This has been your movement. We stand on the shoulders of brave Americans who crossed the oceans, tamed the wilderness, secured our independence, won two World Wars, and put a man on the face of the moon. Not bad. American patriots defeated fascism, vanquished communism, delivered millions into freedom, and Americans built the greatest country and the most powerful military in the history of the world. These courageous Americans did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others tried to erase their legacy, tear down our history, and destroy our proud American heritage. We did not. For the sake of our freedom and for the sake of our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win. We will not bend. We will not break. We will never give in, we will never give up, we will never, ever, ever back down. We will never surrender. And we will always fight on to victory. We are one people and one family with one glorious American destiny. We all share the same home, we all share the same heart, we all salute the same flag, and we are all made by the same almighty God. And I want to thank all of the people of Florida. This is such a big group. And outside, we have more. And a lot of people were just saying, ""Don't bother coming."" This is such a great honor. Because together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Florida. Thank you."
"Well, I want to thank everybody, because this was a rough, rough day for all of us. You know that? And I have to start by saying, hello, Illinois, special place, special people, great people. Hello, Illinois. And I'll tell you what, with this crowd, Mike Bost is going to win big. He has to win big. He has to win big. But it's great to be back in the heartland with thousands of hard-working American patriots, as we work to re-elect a great man, and actually, to be honest, we have three great congressmen here with us today. And we're going to get every one of them in office. And I want to just thank you. But I do specifically -- he's been so great on steel and getting your jobs back, I felt I owed it to a congressman to come up today, Mike Bost. Thank you. He's been fighting for you, and very hard. Before going any further, I want to address the horrible shooting that took place earlier today. The hearts of all Americans are filled with grief following the monstrous killing of Jewish Americans at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. You've all seen it. You've been watching it. It's horrible. The suspect is in custody. The federal authorities are on the scene and leading an aggressive federal investigation. State and local law enforcement has been incredible. This evil, anti-Semitic attack is an assault on all of us. It's an assault on humanity. It will require all of us working together to extract the hateful poison of anti-Semitism from our world. This was an anti-Semitic attack at its worst. The scourge of anti-Semitism cannot be ignored, cannot be tolerated, and it cannot be allowed to continue. We can't allow it to continue. It must be confronted and condemned everywhere it rears its very ugly head. We must stand with our Jewish brothers and sisters to defeat anti-Semitism and vanquish the forces of hate. That's what it is. Through the centuries, the Jews have endured terrible persecution, and you know that. We've all read it. We've studied it. They've gone through a lot. And those seeking their destruction, we will seek their destruction. And when you have crimes like this, whether it's this one or another one on another group, we have to bring back the death penalty. They have to pay the ultimate price. They have to pay the ultimate price. They can't do this. They can't do this to our country. We must draw a line in the sand and say very strongly: Never again. Tonight, everyone in this arena and every citizen across the land sends our prayers to the victims and their families. And we all do. We also send our gratitude to the law enforcement officers, who were incredible and who risked their lives and sustained very, very serious injuries during this horrible attack. We salute the heroes of American law enforcement. We always do. We always do. We know how much we appreciate them, and yet they're underappreciated. They have done such an incredible job for so long, and it's a tough job. We see it now. We see it now maybe like we've never seen it before. And this is the time to renew the bonds of love and loyalty that hold us all together as Americans. These bonds have always sustained our nation in its hour of need. You know that. Everybody here knows that. And they are always more powerful than the forces of hatred and division, anger and evil. In America, we love our families, we love our neighbors, and we protect our community. We -- we trust in God... we protect the freedom of worship... and we believe in the power of prayer. We defend our Constitution, we defend our heritage, and we rally around our great American flag like nobody does. All of us here tonight are united by these same American values. And we are all fighting to defend these values in this election. This is a very, very important election. This could be, and I've said it, and I've heard it, and they have spoken it many times, this is our most important midterm election perhaps ever. Because we've made so much progress. This is steel country and lots of other country. We have made so much progress, we don't want to give up that progress. We can't allow that to happen. Under Republican leadership, America is booming like never before, because we are finally putting America first. And because we put America first, I had a big decision to make. I just spoke to the Future Farmers of America in Indianapolis. And with what happened early today, that horrible, horrible attack in Pittsburgh, I was saying maybe I should cancel both this and that. And then I said to myself, I remember Dick Grasso, a friend of mine, great guy. He headed up the New York Stock Exchange on September 11th. And the New York Stock Exchange was open the following day. He said -- and what they had to do to open it, you wouldn't believe. We won't even talk to you about it, but he got that exchange open. We can't make these sick, demented, evil people important. And when we... And when we start changing around our lives and changing around our schedules and telling thousands and thousands -- look at this group of people and outside... And I hate to say it, but outside you have a group that's almost as big or just as big trying to get in. So you got the better location, but... But they have a better movie screen, OK? And they're great. I see them right there, a lot of people, and great people. But we can't allow people like this to become important. And when we change all of our lives in order to accommodate them, it's not acceptable. So I thought of it for a little while, and the press said, are you going to cancel these two events? And frankly, the Future Farmers, I could have done that one. But this is a rally for Mike Bost, and frankly this one maybe I could have, except I don't want to change our life for somebody that's sick and evil. And I don't think we ever should. I don't think we ever should. Remember the New York Stock Exchange. Remember the teams, the Yankees, George Steinbrenner. He said we've got to play, even if nobody comes, if nobody shows up, we got to play. And I remember that George was a tough man. He was a friend of mine. But he was a good man. And he said we got to play. And they all played. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And I love the people up here, also, and I didn't want to have any excuse. I could have had a little bit of an excuse. There was no excuses. We have our lives, we have our schedules, and nobody's going to change it, OK? So we're here. So let's have a good time. And if you don't mind, I'm going to tone it down just a little bit. Is that OK?  No? I had a -- you're from Illinois. I had a feeling you might say that. I know you well. I had a feeling you might say that. But I do. I really appreciate it. And you are amazing people. And we wouldn't miss this. We wouldn't miss this. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great people. You're great people. You built America. You built America. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. We produced. More Americans are working today than at any point in the history of our country. Think of that. And I don't want to be rude, but your steel industry was dead as a doornail and now it's a hot industry again. A hot industry. They can dump if they want, but they're going to pay a big price. And that's what happened. And US Steel is bringing back many plants. You know that. And they're opening up some new ones. And Nucor, you see what they're doing. They're building brand-new beautiful plants. And I saw plans of one of them. They're so proud of them. You didn't think you'd see that day when they're starting to build the new steel plants. And the steel workers, I said to a couple of them, big, strong guys. They came up to me. One of them said, thank you, sir, for saving our country. And he was crying. And I'm telling you, he was crying. I don't think this guy cried when he was a baby.  This guy never cried. But he said that. And I've had a lot of people said -- usually when I'm backstage, people will just say thank you for saving our country. And I really at the beginning... Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you. And at the beginning, when people would say that to me, I'd sort of, like, you know, I'd say it's surreal, that's a big statement. But I realize now, when I see what's happening and what's going on and the no border theory and -- and take everybody into our country, when we can't... I realize -- I realize that if our opponent -- not my opponent, but if our opponent got in, our country would be in really serious trouble, maybe to a point where it never could come back again. We are bringing it back. We just passed a massive tax cut for working families. And we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. We're working on it with Kevin Brady. We're putting our coal miners back to work. Clean coal. Clean coal. That was a gone industry, I'll tell you. We're putting them back to work. Clean coal, beautiful, clean coal. What they do with coal today. And I know you won't like this much, but we're putting our steel workers back to work, right? We are really putting them back to work. We are putting our steel workers back to work. And by the way, that's an industry. You can't do without steel. You know, we were at a point where we were just running on fumes, and we need steel for defense and aluminum, by the way, which is also roaring back. But we need steel and aluminum for defense. Some industries, you can. You can go buy it from somebody. We can't lose steel. So with those furnaces are starting up all over the place, it's a beautiful thing to see. I'm very proud of it. Very proud of it. Thank you. Thank you, darling. Over the last two decades, nearly two-thirds of American raw steel companies went out of business. Did you know that? Two-thirds. And the rest were on fumes. More than one-third of the steel jobs -- and now it was getting up to about 62 percent -- were vanquished, they were gone. You could say vanquished and vanished. It's a combination of both. More than 70,000 hard-working Americans saw their jobs eliminated and their way of life destroyed. They want to make steel. And I said to them, how about another industry? We'll teach you how to make a computer, little computers. Guys says -- his hands are like this. His -- He doesn't want to make a computer. He wants to make steel. Does that make sense? I said the same thing to the miners in West Virginia. Remember that? I got -- I won that by 42 percent. Nobody's ever heard of it. Nobody ever heard of it. Over a Democrat, not like an independent over a Democrat, name, Hillary Clinton. But... But...  But I said to these beautiful guys, these -- the West Virginia, big, strong guys, their fathers were in the mines, their grandfathers, their great -- that's what they do. I said, fellas, supposing we take you to Silicon Valley...  And we'll teach you, like, how to make these beautiful little keyboards, these beautiful computers. They looked at me like, hey -- you know the expression. We want to dig coal. That's what they want to do. Nobody does it better in the world. And that's what they want to do. Guess what? That's what they're doing again, OK? Clean coal. Not far from here in Illinois, the historic Granite City Works had idled two blast furnaces. You know, two of your blast furnaces were down. The whole place was down. And laid off hundreds and hundreds of American workers. But the era of economic surrender is over for our country. It's over. And earlier this year, I kept a very crucial promise. To protect our national security, I imposed a 10 percent tariff on foreign aluminum and a 25 percent tariff on foreign steel. And now our steel, aluminum industries are roaring back to life, like nothing you've ever seen. Three months ago, Congressman Mike Bost, by my side, and I'll tell you what, he called me, sir, could you come? I said, who is this guy? He doesn't stop. He's a great guy. He called me, and I came to Illinois, and we celebrated the reopening of two blast furnaces at Granite City. And it turned out that that was just the beginning. Thanks to our tariffs -- number one, you don't hear this -- hundreds of millions of dollars is being paid into the coffers of the United States Treasury. That's OK, too. You don't hear that. Hundreds of Illinois steelworkers and steelworkers all over the country are now back on the job, pouring 2.7 million tons of raw American steel into the spine of our country. After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. And we are doing it with American steel and American pride. The choice for every American this November is between resistance and results. How about the Democrats? No, no. Their whole theme is resist. Oh, that's great. Resist. It's actually the thing that they're good at. Their policies are no good. They're not good as politicians. What they do, do is they stick together and they resist and obstruct. If you don't want to be saying the words, ladies and gentlemen, Speaker Nancy Pelosi for the next two years... vote Republican. You've got to get out and vote. And two great guys who are from a little further away, and they're doing well, but you never know in this business. We're honored to be joined tonight by Congressman Randy Hultgren and Congressman Rodney Davis. Come up, Randy and Rodney. Come up, please. These two guys are warriors, along with Mike. Mike Bost is a warrior. Get them in. Come on up, fellas. Thank you, Mr. President. God bless you all. This is amazing. We need your vote. My name is Randy Hultgren. I represent the northern suburbs. We've got a tough battle running against a very liberal who absolutely is dying to support Nancy Pelosi for speaker. We've got to stop that. We've got to hold the House. We've got to continue to fight for this great country. God bless you all. Get out and vote. Vote early. Thank you. Hey, everyone. When I was up here earlier talking about the success of Republican leadership in Washington, working with President Trump, what was that chant we made? [Audience chants Promises Made, Promises Kept] Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I have to tell them -- be careful of that runway. You know, that runway is so narrow. Can you imagine if I went down on the runway, oh, would there be a -- oh. Oh. No, no, could you imagine? It would be -- you're right. Well, maybe they'd give me a pass and they'd say let's not show them, no? I'm always very careful. You know, it's funny. I walk down the planes is very -- nobody cares if you walk nice and easy, so -- because if I ever tripped or stumbled just a little bit, it'll be headline news.  And whoever's doing these runways, whoever the hell it is. Please make them a little bit wider, because that sucker is narrow. That is a narrow runway. Finally, it's my pleasure to introduce the person we are all here tonight to support, Congressman Mike Bost. Mike fights every day for the hardworking people of Illinois, and I know it probably better than anyone. He calls me. Please, you've got to help my people. Other people, honestly, other people don't care. This guy cares. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm here. He voted to cut your taxes, reduce your regulations, protect your Medicare, protect your pre-existing conditions. Mike Bost defends Illinois farmers, Illinois miners, and Illinois steel workers. Mike, come on up. Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you. Thank you for coming out and showing how much we love our president, Donald Trump. Thank you. And the most important -- the most important thing to remember, the other two gentlemen that were up here, if you're in their district, get out and vote. If you're in our district, get out and vote. Why? Because if you want our president to continue to succeed, you cannot allow Nancy Pelosi to take that House back. It's up to you, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you for leading in a way that we need America to be led, and thank you for coming to Southern Illinois.  Good job. Thank you, Mike. And a vote for Mike is really a continuation to make America great again. Very simple. Very simple. Now, I did a little tiny bit of research. And Mike's opponent, Brendan Kelly, is a vote for Nancy Pelosi and, of course, Maxine Waters... and their job-killing agenda. Brendan Kelly opposes your tax cuts. He's weak on crime. He's for open borders. Can you believe some -- seriously. Forget about -- forget about Brendan Kelly. Let's say you're a politician and you're running on this platform, open borders, we're going to take care of illegal aliens' health care. OK? Think of it. We're going to raise your taxes. Think of it. How do you -- how do you win a race like that? Seriously. How does anybody win a race like that? I don't know. Brendan Kelly is beholden to the far-left Democrats funding his campaign. His third-largest contributor is a group of ultra-liberal -- you know who they are, whose name tells you everything you need to know. It's called Swing Left. You like -- do you like -- so I think these people don't want to swing left. If you want to stand up for American jobs, factories, and workers, you must vote for Mike Bost. The Republican agenda is America's agenda. Republicans want to lower your taxes, they want less regulation, they want fair trade deals. Oh, am I making you good, fair trade deals. I'm not making you fair trade deals. I'm making you unfair trade deals in our favor, OK? It's about time. You have been ripped off by a lot of countries. And I don't blame the countries. I don't blame them. I blame us. I blame our leadership. They should have never allowed NAFTA. You look at NAFTA. You look at that. You look at what the European Union has done to us. You look at what China has done to us for so many years. So we're in a little dispute with China. We put $250 billion worth of tariffs on China at 25 percent. And I think we're going to make a deal. You know, look, if we do good and if we don't, that's OK, but we have a tremendous -- and we can put another $257 billion -- billion dollars' worth of tariffs on China. And I have a feeling that everything's going to work out. They want to make a deal. I said, you're not ready yet. You're not ready yet. Remember they said, please make a deal with Canada. Please, these politicians stand up, not Mike, not Mike. Not the other two, either. The other two are saying don't do -- do whatever you want, because they want a great deal. You know, you can't just run and make it. Canada has had an unbelievable deal. Canada, we love Canada, we love Canada. And I actually like the prime minister. I do. But -- but I have to -- good guy. No. But for years and years, they've taken advantage. They had on dairy products a tariff of 275 percent. Nobody knew that until I came along and explained it. This woman goes, what?  You're about four months late, but that's OK.  And it's always tough. You know, you're negotiating -- and I'm telling Mexico and Canada, hey, I don't care if we ever make a deal, and then I'll have congressmen and senators standing up saying he must make a deal with Canada, he must make a deal with Mexico. And I'm telling them, I couldn't care less if I make a deal. It doesn't really work. It doesn't work. But it did work. And you know what? We made a great deal, and I think they -- hopefully they made a great deal for Canada, they made a great deal for Mexico, and we all live happily ever after, but we have now got the USMCA. It's a great deal. And we opened the borders and our companies will not be flowing into other countries, because now, if they do, they pay a tremendous penalty. Republicans want strong borders, no crime, and no caravans, right? We don't want caravans. We're not having caravans.  So we started the wall. We spent $1.6 billion. We then spent another $1.6 billion. Now we're spending another $1.6 billion. But I want to do it all at one time, but you know what? Watch, just watch. They're going to go crazy when I say this. You're going to be so happy next week. You're going to see something happen next week. You're going to be very happy. You're going to be very happy. And you know, the military is going to the border. You do know that. And I want the people of the caravan to come into our country, but they have to come in legally, like all of the millions of people that are waiting on line right now. They can't break into our borders. They're not going to. We've done an incredible job, ICE, Border Patrol, we've done -- you know, I always say, it's my fault. You know why it's my fault? Because the country is doing so well, it's so successful that everybody wants to come here. But it doesn't work that way. So it's my fault. I take the blame. I take the blame. If we let the country fail, we'd have no problem. But we don't want to do that. We don't want to do that. So you're going to see -- we called in the military. The military, oh, they're ready, they're ready. And I wish I could just tell them -- and I say it, caravan, turn around. You're not coming in. You're not coming in. I'm sorry. We have taken thousands of MS-13 out of this country, ICE. We've gotten them out. And if you look at that large group, sometimes it gets up to 17,000 people, they say. Today they said it's really gets bigger and bigger. And doesn't make any difference, because they're not coming in. They're not coming in. The military is all ready. And we're going to have border protection. You watch. We're going to have a very strong border protection. But they're not coming in. They can't come in. We want them very badly. We actually need people for our companies, because we have many, many companies coming in to the United States. They're coming in, car companies, they're going into Michigan and Ohio and all over. They're coming into Illinois, get your taxes down a little bit. We got to get your taxes down. Right? But they're coming in to Illinois. But we have car companies, they're going North, South Carolina. They're coming into Florida. Prime Minister Abe was showing me. We have a list of companies, they're all -- and you know why? Because Japan has made so much money for so many years. I say we have to even it up now, folks. We have to even it up now. The European Union, last year, they made $151 billion. They won't take our product, but we take their Mercedes-Benzes and their BMWs. Not going to happen anymore, unless we straighten it out. They understand that. And with China, that's the big one. That's the big one. China has been averaging $500 billion for many years. And I told President Xi, who I like a lot, he's the president of China, strong, smart, I said, I don't blame you. I was giving a speech in China, and I was ranting and raving about how China has been ripping off the country. And then I realized I was in China. This wasn't playing too well.  I said, this speech is not -- this speech is not playing well. And I looked at President Xi. He was looking up, what the hell is this all about?  And I looked at him, I said, but I don't blame you. And he felt better. But he wanted to know why. I said, I don't blame you, because our leaders were missing in action. They should have never let it happen. Just like they should have never let the whole situation in North Korea happen, get to that point. But we're doing great there now. No more rockets, right? I say all the time, no more rockets, no more missiles, no more nuclear testing. We got our hostages back. We're getting our remains, the remains of our great heroes, they're coming back. And we have a good relationship with Kim Jong-un. We have a great relationship with Chairman Kim. And we feel good about it. So there's not much they can say. Look, there's no more testing. They're closing sites. There's no more nuclear. There's no more -- the nuclear testing stopped. There's no missiles going over Japan. Think of it. We got our hostages back. We got our hostages back. We didn't -- hey, people said we'll never get the remains back. Vice President Mike Pence got the remains. He greeted the remains of these great, great heroes. All right? In Hawaii, we're getting the remains back. So the only thing they said is now, when did I leave there, three months ago, would you say, Singapore? Would you say it's three months? No much more. So let's say I left three or four months ago. The only thing they say is, it's not moving fast enough. They've been working on this for 70 years. I've been doing it for four months. And the rhetoric was very tough. Remember? Very, very tough. They actually said this is horrible, the way he's talking, horrible. This is going to cause war. Well, you would have been in a war the other way. This is going to cause war. Horrible, oh, did they go after me. So now all they can say is two things. They can say we met. Remember? Because we've got everything. We're working along. We're getting along great. It's going to be great for North Korea. North Korea will become a great economic place, that location so good, between China, Russia, and South Korea. What a location. It's going to be fantastic. But you know what? So they said, how can we go after President Trump? Ah, he met. I met. In other words, I met. Think of that. What did I give? I met. So that was one thing. The other thing they say is, it's not going fast enough. What, three and a half months? And nothing's happened. It's so good. And remember when I first came in or just before I came in, right, just before, everyone really thought we were going to war and that was going to be a potential nuclear catastrophe. Well, I can't -- no, I mean, look, who knows in life, right? I'm not going to say -- I can only say the relationship is really good and we're really in good shape and they're in really good shape and they're happy and we're happy. And if it takes long, I don't care. I tell my people, I couldn't care how long. As long as there's no testing, as long as there's no nuclear testing, moving mountains over a little bit, that's the kind of testing. But it's working well. But you remember when they said it's too rough, the rhetoric. You remember the -- I don't even want to say it now, because I have such a good relationship. I won't even say it. I won't even say it. But the rhetoric was brutal. But ultimately, it was all very important to get this to a point where now we really have a relationship. Now -- and again, who knows? But I think it's working out really well. And before I got there, you were in trouble. This was going to be a big war, millions of people killed. Seoul is 30 miles away from that border. And you talk about a protected border. That's a serious border. That's a wall like you never saw before. You look at the wall and you say, uh, I'll pass, I'm going back home.  That is a -- that is a -- I looked at it. I saw it. That's a real deal. It's a fence with a lot of electric current going through it. A lot of different things happening on that fence. You know what you say, you take a look at that, you say, I'm passing. But you know, it's funny. So with that one, they said, he's too tough, it's too strong. The rhetoric is -- we're going to end up in war. I had a great meeting with Vladimir Putin. Great meeting. We got -- I talked about everything. We will do great. And don't forget, Russia wants our help economically. We're an economic -- we have created such wealth. I have done a really good job, $11.7 trillion. Russia wants us to be involved. Russia wants us. Everybody wants our help. I brought up the pipeline. I said, why is Germany paying billions of dollars a month for energy in a pipeline that goes to Russia? Why is Germany giving billions of dollars to Russia and then we're supposed to protect Germany and Europe from Russia? So they're paying the person and the country. Think of it. They're giving billions of dollars for the pipeline. Nobody else brought that up. Nobody else. I brought it up. But they said, he was too nice to Putin. So with one, I was too rough, the other one I'm too nice. And let me tell you, if I walked up to President Putin and started a boxing match, and I would have done just fine. But if I walked up to President Putin and started a boxing match, they would have said, he was too tough, this is terrible. In other words, makes no difference, makes no difference. But we had a very successful meeting With Russia and President Putin, and we're just doing great in foreign affairs. We are doing so much better than anybody thought possible. So much better than we've done in years. And we'll end up getting along well with Russia, well with North Korea well with China after we equalize out. But we're getting along with a lot of people. And part of the reason we're doing that, and very important for us, is we have built and are in the process of building by far the strongest military that we've ever had. We have to have it. We have to have it. But even that, it's economics, because people want a part of this dream. You know, every country virtually that comes in to see me, the prime minister, the king, the queen, the president, every country, they start off by saying, Mr. President, congratulations on what you've done. We've never seen numbers like this coming out of the United States. We've never seen anything like it. We've never seen... And if we can help other countries -- and that includes the big ones and the strong ones, I want to help them. We want to get along with everybody. We want to get along with everybody. But we want to have a level playing field, not what we had before. OK? Earlier this month, we achieved a historic victory for our Constitution and for the rule of law. We proudly confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Right? Boy, oh, did they treat him horribly. Did they treat him badly. A great scholar, a great intellect, a great person, great family. Did they treat him badly or what? That was hard to believe. This will be the election of the caravans, the Kavanaughs, law and order, tax cuts, and you know what else? It's going to be the election of common sense, because most of it's common sense. A lot of it's common sense. People say he's a great, great conservative. You know, if somebody else did what I did, two great Supreme Court justices already, Justice Neil Gorsuch, don't forget, one of the greats. He will be -- he's doing fantastically. Another great intellect, great scholar, Harvard, Oxford. These are a serious, great people. Justice Kavanaugh, Yale, then Yale Law, top, top talent. I heard with Justice Kavanaugh for years, long before I thought of doing this, 10 years ago, I heard someday there's a man named Brett Kavanaugh, he'll be on the Supreme Court. I said, who is that? But I really didn't care, because I didn't figure I'd be putting him on the Supreme Court, right? I hadn't given it too much thought at that time. That was a long time ago, 10 years ago. But we are doing great. But if somebody named Bill Smith was president and he did the things I did, tax cuts, regulation cuts, two Supreme Court justices, right to try, you look at all of the things we've done for the vets, you look at the rebuilding of our military, $700 billion. And his name was Bill Smith, President Bill, they would say he is the greatest conservative of all time. But because his name is Donald Trump, you have the haters and they continue to hate -- these are foolish and very stupid people. Very stupid people. No, I see some of these guys -- seriously, and, look, for the most part, I think -- I just came out -- was it 93 percent? I'd ask the Hollywood -- look, this is like the Academy Awards. Look how many cameras they have back there. It's the Academy Awards. We are in the Academy Awards. But 93 percent of the people in the Republican Party, it's like a record or something like that, 93 percent have a high approval rating of Trump. OK? But I'm not -- I'm not talking. I'm talking about that tiny, little -- you know, the losers that were -- the losers that were some guy named Kristol, Bill Kristol. He -- listen. He called it wrong from day one. He said he's not going to run. OK, I ran. He is not going to win the primaries. OK, I won the primaries. He will not win the election. I won the election. He will never get a Supreme Court justice approved. I got that. He will never get tax cuts. I got that. He will never cut regulations. I cut more regulations than anybody in the history of the country. I mean, these are losers. Why do they put them on television"
"Thank you very much. I've never seen rain in North Carolina. It's raining, but we're going to start. There are a lot of people trying to get in. Should we start or should we wait about an hour? Thank you. Thank you. And thank you to my friends right here. You've been with me from before I started, right? Thank you very much. Thanks. Hello, North Carolina. Thank you very much. And I'm really glad to be back in Charlotte, with thousands of proud, hard-working American patriots. And I can't wait to be back here for the 2020 Republican National Convention. You had a lot of competition. But in the end, we said let's do that North Carolina thing. Let's do that Charlotte thing. That's where we'll be. So we'll see a lot of you. In just 11 days, the people of this state are going to elect Mark Harris and Ted Budd to the United States Congress. They will be incredible fighters and have been. They've been fighting all their life for great things, and they're fighting for your interests, including lower taxes, strong borders, great health care, protecting pre-existing conditions, and removing job-killing regulations, which we've done more of than any administration ever. Early voting is now underway. So if anybody wants to leave, we'll save your place. You can come right back. Go out and vote. Otherwise, definitely on November 6th, right? Did you vote yet? Did you vote? Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Well, we really have -- we've had a tremendous all over the country Republicans, we're hot. We're hot. We're hot. And I don't think they're going to cool us off, no matter what they want to do. They try. They try so hard. But I don't think that's going to happen. Before going any further, I want to briefly address the packages and devices that have been mailed to a number of high-profile individuals. As you know, the suspect has been captured. Great job. And is now in federal custody. These terrorist actions must be prosecuted and punished to the fullest extent of the law. We all know that. And I want to applaud the FBI, the Secret Service, and all state, local, federal officials for their incredible work in this investigation. I mean, they did an incredible job. This is finding, truly, a needle in a haystack when you think about it. We love our police, and we love our law enforcement. Political violence must never, ever be allowed in America, and I will do everything in my power to stop it. In recent days, we've had a broader conversation about the tone and civility of our national dialogue. Everyone will benefit if we can end the politics of personal destruction. We must unify as a nation in peace, love, and in harmony. The media has a major role to play. Whether they want to or not.  And they do, indeed. They have a major role to play as far as tone and as far as everything. And we all say this in all sincerity, but the media's constant unfair coverage, deep hostility... and negative attacks -- you know that -- only serve to drive people apart and to undermine healthy debate. For example... we have seen an effort by the media in recent hours to use the sinister actions of one individual to score political points against me and the Republican Party. Yet when a Bernie Sanders supporter tried to murder congressional Republicans and severely wounded -- a great man named Steve Scalise and others -- we did not use that heinous attempt at mass murder for political gain, because that would have been wrong. It would have been the wrong thing to do. Many other examples could be brought up. Nor do we blame the Democrat Party every time radical leftists seized and destroy public property and unleash violence and mayhem. Yet the media has tried to attack the incredible Americans who support our movement to give power back to the people. It's what our movement is. Our supporters are some of the most honest, wonderful, like you... principled, hard-working, patriotic people on the face of God's Earth. They pay their taxes, follow our laws, care for their neighbors, go to church and contribute to charity, and they are loyal to our country. All they want is a government that is loyal to them in return. And that's what they are getting from me. And that's what they're getting from my administration. And you know that. But despite all of this, just came out, 94 percent of the press I get is negative. Even when I do something wonderful, it's negative. Even when we do great things, you look at North Korea, how good are we doing? It's been going with them for 70 years, more than 70 years. This is now our fourth month, and they always say, he's not moving fast enough. Fast enough? If I wasn't here, you would have ended up in a world war. You watch! I mean, you would have ended up in a world war. Or I heard even on Fox today, Bret Baier, I heard even on Fox we had a great meeting with Vladimir Putin. And every time I see, oh, Donald Trump had a bad meeting -- I had a great meeting. We had great. And they play it up as negative as they can. It was a great meeting. We have all the cards. We have all the cards, because we're the piggy bank that everybody wants to attack and rob and steal from. We have the cards. But they made it look as negative -- that was a great meeting I had. They make it look -- all of them, as negative as possible. Almost all of them. Or if you take a look at what we're doing with NATO, where for many years they're not paying their bills. Now they're paying their bills and nobody talks about it. I went in last year, and I said, you got to pay up. We're protecting you. We're protecting you. You got to pay up. They agreed to pay $44 billion more money we don't have to pay ultimately, because it's not fair. Not fair. We're protecting them, and they're not paying their bills. And we want to protect them, but they got to pay their bills. And this year, we had an even better meeting, but you never hear that from these folks. So it's very important that the media cover results properly. And I could give you -- I could stand up here, I could give you all night long other examples, but these are just a few quick ones. I just heard the one with Russia. I'll tell you what, the worst thing that ever happened to Russia is when I won the election. That's the worst thing. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. And at the same time, getting along with Russia, getting along with China, getting along, frankly, with North Korea and South Korea and Japan and everybody else, that's a good thing, not a bad thing. In the meantime, we will keep delivering results, like nobody else has delivered them for many, many decades for this country. And it is time for us to replace the politics of anger and destruction with a real debate about the real issues. And we want honest coverage from the media. That's all we want. This is one of the most important elections of our lifetime. Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning because we are putting America first.  So true. We're putting America first. When have you heard that last? Been a long time, hasn't it? I said the other day, I'm not a globalist. I'm a nationalist. And they say, oh, that's so terrible. They said that's so terrible. Oh. I'm for us. And you know what? We're going to help the globe. But we have to help ourselves, as well. I want to help the globe, but we have to take care of ourselves, also. So unfair, what's been happening to our country for 25 years and longer. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. We have eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations, passed a massive tax cut for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. We are taking care of our great veterans, and our military will soon be more powerful than it has ever been before. That's true. Our military was in very depleted shape. It was in very shape. They were getting parts for aeroplanes going to the aeroplane graveyard. You know that, right? That's where they store old, old planes. Not anymore they're not. We've ordered the finest planes in the world, missiles, rockets, every -- ships. Everything we have. We'll be stronger than ever before, and hopefully, you know what, we'll never have to use our military. Wouldn't that be nice? And the best way that'll happen is by doing exactly what I'm doing right now. We want to be in a position that people say, let's leave them alone. But if Nancy Pelosi... and cryin' Chuck Schumer... Right? Nancy Pelosi... Can you imagine? Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. I don't think so. But if Pelosi and cryin' Chuck Schumer, remember, right? I've known him a long time. He never came close to crying, except one particular night. When the radical Democrats get control, they will try to erase every single thing that we've achieved. Democrats want to raise your taxes. They want to impose socialism. That's what they're doing. They want to take away your Second Amendment. Take away your strong health care that we're making stronger and stronger every single day. By the way, nobody talks about, but we got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular aspect of Obamacare. Where you had the great privilege of paying a fortune in order to pay a fortune to not pay for bad health care. That's not a very good -- right? That's not a very good thing. Now we got rid of the individual mandate. That's big. And by the way, we've really radically changed that. And we had it beaten. But we didn't get one Democrat. I always say, we didn't get somebody vote, which is true. But we didn't get one Democrat vote, either. Think of it. One Democrat would have repealed and replaced, but we're essentially doing the same thing anyway. It's been decimated by us. And now, if you notice, your premiums are going up at a much, much lower clip. And yesterday -- and yesterday, which got very, very little print, very little ink by these great gentlemen and ladies... by the fake news... So yesterday -- yesterday, it really did, it was a very important -- we signed a bill -- prescription drug prices are going to come tumbling down. Tumbling down. You know, we have other countries -- we have other countries that, for the same pill for the same company made in the same plant, wherever the hell it's made...  You go and you see that same pill, same box, same everything, selling for 10 percent, 20 percent, 30 percent of what Americans are forced to pay. That's all ending, folks. That's all ending, OK? So hopefully you don't need prescription drugs, but if you do, you're going to get them a hell of a lot cheaper, because it's going this way. But the middlemen and the drug companies, but the middleman are not thrilled with me right now. They're not thrilled with me. These were very rich people. They are not -- they are not thrilled with Donald Trump right now. And the Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan of illegal aliens into our country. And they want to sign them up for free health care, free welfare, free education, and for the right to vote. They want to sign 'em for the right to vote. What's that all about?  The right to vote. You ever hear that one? Illegal alien has the right to vote. There's a town in California where they actually tried to take over the town council. All illegal aliens running the town council. That sounds like a great idea. I wish they became so activist in their own countries. Wouldn't that be good? Wouldn't that be good? Let 'em go take over the councils in their country. Look, I want them to come into our country, but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit, the merit system. We have millions and millions of people right now on line, they've been waiting sometimes 10 years, they did it right, they went through, they did everything, they signed every paper. They're waiting proudly on line. They're going to be admitted soon and all of that. And it's so unfair to them to have people just walk across a border, because our Democrat laws are no good. Because we have laws that are the laughingstock of the world because of the Democrats. They're the laughingstock of the world. Catch-and-release, we caught 'em, release 'em. We caught 'em, release 'em. Think of it. Think of -- visa lottery. Visa lottery. Um, who is this? Who is this? And then when they turn out to be not so good, we say, I wonder why. Well, maybe the country is giving us their worst in those lotteries. Does that make sense? Do you think -- do you think the country is saying, let's get our best people, our greatest people, let's put them in the lottery so that the United States can have them? Or do you think maybe they're going the opposite route? I think maybe the opposite route. Right? Or chain migration. How about that one? How about that one? Chain migration, where we had this bad guy come in from a certain country, and he brought his mother and his father and his uncle and his grandfather and his grandmother and his brother and his sister and his aunt and his uncle and probably a lot of people that no relation to them whatsoever, I think it was 22 people. But perhaps they'll be able to figure it out. And he's driving down the West Side Highway, this beautiful park along the West Side Highway in Manhattan that I know very, very well. And he decides to kill people. And so he takes the car going 60 or 70 miles an hour, far above the speed limit, and he turns it right into a park where people are jogging, where people are working out, where people want to look so good. They leave their apartment to work out, to run, to run along the Hudson River, so beautiful. And he goes 70 miles an hour, boom, and he kills eight. And he badly, badly, badly hurts -- nobody ever talks about -- 12 people, missing arms, missing legs, missing everything. Just so sad. And he brought in 22 people. This is what we have. Nobody working. He brought in -- that's called chain migration. It's from the Democrats. And we don't want it anymore. Right? A vote for Democrats is a vote for open borders and a vote for tax hikes. I don't know. I don't get that one. I think I would be a failed politician if I had to really promote open borders. Everybody comes in. Everybody comes in. Come on in. We pay for all of the things we just went over. I couldn't do it as a politician. You know, to be successful in life, you have to believe in what you say. And I can't believe that many of these Democrats that have gone so far left -- I knew them, and when you say the wall -- first of all, we started the wall. But more importantly, many of these Democrats in -- almost all of them, including Schumer, including crooked Hillary, including everybody... many of these Democrats approved the wall in 2006.  Oh, boy. They're going to be reporting about you tonight.  They're going to be reporting. That's pretty cool. That hat is fantastic. That's a hat. Look at that. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safety and for jobs. Remember that. Earlier this month, we achieved yet another historic victory, a victory that people will appreciate over many, many years and maybe decades. We proudly confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh.  Good, remember that. Remember. Remember when you're going in to vote, remember what you say. Because nobody has ever been treated more unfairly than Brett Kavanaugh. What happened to him and his family was an absolute disgrace. And by the way, we have many women here -- remember, I won women -- remember how... We have many women here. We have many women here, some of whom have been with me like this whole group. From the beginning, from almost before the beginning. We have many women -- and as I'm saying how unfairly he's been treated, they're all nodding. Look at you. They're all nodding their head. He was treated very unfairly. But you know what? We won. And he's going to be there for many, many years. And we put another great one there, Justice Gorsuch. You know that, Neil Gorsuch. Those are two great people. Scholars, brilliant, genius. Number one in their class. Number one at Yale. Number one at Yale Law. One of the greatest records you've ever seen. I used to hear about now Justice Kavanaugh. I used to hear 10 years ago. I said, there's a young man named Kavanaugh. Brett Kavanaugh. He's going to be a Supreme Court judge someday. I say, well, I'll never have anything to do, because I'm having a lot of fun building buildings. I'm not -- why do you mention it to me? And look what happened, right? Look what happened. Look what happened. We had a lot of fun. This has been the greatest movement in the history of our country. Remember that. And in the history of most countries. Don't let them take it away with the -- with the false reporting and everything else. Don't let them take it away. This will be the election of the Kavanaughs and the caravans and law and order and tax cuts. And you know what? This will be an election, frankly, of common sense, right? It's common sense. You know, they say, are you a conservative? I say, yeah, I guess. But, you know, really what I am, I think have common sense. Most of this stuff is common sense. We need borders. We need borders. We need a great military. We want low taxes. We want great education. You know, it's like, really, it's not conservative or liberal. It's common sense, right? This election will decide the next speaker of the House. And you know what I just said. We have to have great people there. And, you know, we have a tiny, tiny majority, so small, you just can't -- I won't say it. I've said it so many times. If a senator catches a cold, we delay the vote. That's the kind of majority we have. We essentially don't have a majority, OK? I think we're doing great in the Senate. And I think we're going to do really good in the House, but getting Mark and Ted in there, North Carolina, so important. Vote for Mark and Ted. And before we continue, let me take a moment to send our love and support to our fellow citizens in North Carolina, South Carolina, and throughout the Southeast who are still recovering from your devastating -- that was a rain-soaked hurricane. That was a lot of water. I was here. I was here, and I was in South Carolina, and you got hit. That was less wind, but more water, right? That was a bad one. But FEMA, first responders, the Coast Guard, the military, your local people have done a fantastic job. Fantastic. I spoke to somebody backstage who got hit hard. And I spoke to that person like just when it happened. And tonight, I said, so how's it? OK? He didn't know what I was talking about. He's recovered so -- they -- you worked hard. And government worked hard. And it was really government and the people working together, and the way that North Carolina came back and South Carolina came back. And now we have Florida and Georgia, different. Michael. That was a different kind. Less water, but those winds were about as big as anybody's ever seen. They just wiped out -- they ripped foundations. They didn't just knock a house down. They ripped the foundations out. That was like a massive tornado. The damage is incredible. I've never seen anything like it. Never. But I just want to say, congratulations on doing a great job. And it's being finished up. And it's incredible the job. North Carolina, congratulations. Congratulations. And tonight we also remember a fallen hero. North Carolina Highway Patrol Officer Kevin Conner, who's family's here. His great family is here. Officer Conner was shot and killed in the line of duty on Wednesday. He was an 11-year veteran of the force, and he leaves behind a great wife and two young, beautiful children. This evening, all of America holds Officer Conner's family in our hearts and prayers, and we pledge our undying gratitude and support to the men and women of law enforcement. They're incredible. They are incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. We are honored to be joined tonight by many of your great North Carolina Republican leaders, including Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest. Where's Dan? Where are they? Where -- where are they? Where are they? Where's Dan? There he is. A lot of people in here, Dan. It's hard to find one very good-looking man. There are a lot of people in this -- thank you. Dan, thank you very much. Great job. And tell your son to get his cold better. Dan said, sir, this is my son. I'm so proud of him. Sir, he has a cold. Don't shake his hand.  And what did I say, Dan? I said, Dan, thank you very much, right?  Tell him to take care of his cold. Another man who has been such a help to me in Washington, a really good guy, works hard, loves the people of North Carolina, Senator Thom Tillis. Thom? Where is Thom? Where is Thom? I found him. There's a lot of people, Thom. Great job. Thom Tillis, great job. They're toying with me. They're putting all these people in different locations. Usually they have them, like, in one location. Sir, everybody's on the right. Now they have them all over the place. Thank you, Thom. Thank your family, too. Great job. And Representative -- he's got the greatest name in all of politics -- Patrick McHenry. If you can't win with that name... Where's Patrick? Look at him. He's over in a different location. Patrick, they're toying with us. Patrick McHenry, greatest name in politics, and one of the most talented people in politics, maybe that's more important to me, Patrick. Thank you. You do a fantastic job. And also a man who's become so popular -- and I was with him from almost before he announced -- and I'll never forget, a couple of years ago, he was running, and he was favored by so much that nobody went out to vote. Can you believe that can happen? He was favored -- and I called him, I said, wow, that was closer than we thought. Literally, people thought -- they love him, and that'll never happen again. I mean, he still won by a lot. But a lot of people didn't vote for a man named Ralph Norman, who's fantastic. Ralph, wherever you are, Ralph? Ralph, right, Ralph? Remember I called you? I said, Ralph, never be so far in front that they don't want to vote, OK? Never let that happen. You're always one point down the next time, Ralph. Thank you, Ralph. Great job. And, Ralph, I'll tell you, he's done a great job. We're also thrilled to be joined by a North Carolina native, because I love NASCAR. Do we like NASCAR? I love NASCAR. And I really love -- you know what I'm talking about -- the France family and Brian France. And Brian, we love you. Get in there, Brian. Brian's going to be in great shape. Brian is a tough winner. And that whole France family, they have pretty good -- you know, that's like owning the entire NFL. You know that, right? What a great thing. NASCAR. We love NASCAR. I love the drivers. I don't know if you know it -- and I'm not saying this for political reasons, because it doesn't matter -- but I spend a lot of time in Lake Norman, right? Lake Norman. And a lot of the drivers live in my job, in Lake Norman. And these guys, I'll tell you what, they take me for drives every once in a while, and they get it up to 200, 250. I say get me the hell out of this car.  Get me out of here. But we have one of the greatest winners ever in NASCAR, and now his grandson maybe will turn out to be an even bigger winner than him. You know who I'm talking about? Richard Childress. Where is Richard? Where is Richard? Where is Richard? Richard Childress. Is your grandson going to be better than you, Richard? Huh? Yes. See, that's the love. I have many friends who are bad people. Bad. Very successful. And if their son is very successful, they're jealous of their son. You're supposed to love your son and grandson. And if they're more -- but, OK, so you're happy for your grandson, right? Good. Didn't he just won the big one? That's good. That means he definitely knows how to drive, huh? He's got that little -- got that extra spurt. Thank you very much, Richard. Great job. What a great career. Thanks, Richard. He's been with us from the beginning, Richard Childress. That's a winner for you, Richard. Richard's a winner. Finally, it's my honor to introduce two outstanding Republican candidates, the people that we're here for, really. With Richard and the governor and the senator, Thom, and all -- we're really here tonight -- Thom, we're really here for these two great congressmen now and soon to be congressman, OK? And they have run fantastic campaigns. They're doing very well. But honestly, get out and vote. Let's not take a chance, OK? Let's not take a chance. Let's not take a chance. So I want to ask for Ted Budd and Mark Harris to please come forward. Please. Ted Budd is a champion for the people of this state. He voted to cut your taxes, protect your pre-existing conditions, build a border wall, which we're working on, and wait until you see what we're doing next week. You're not even going to believe it. And protect your Second Amendment rights. And Mark Harris is another true fighter for North Carolina. He will vote to protect your jobs and cut regulations like never before, because that's what we're doing. He will vote to save your health care, secure our border, and stop illegal immigration. Ted and Mark, say a few words. Come on. Well, good evening, North Carolina. Thank you all for being here. So, Mr. President, I want to thank you for your hard work. You're traveling all over this country, trying to get great members of Congress elected and re-elected, too. Now, the status quo in Washington is trying to stop you, Mr. President, at every turn. We know that. Yes, we do. But here in North Carolina, Mr. President, we are proud of you. And we want you to know... Mr. President, we have your back here in North Carolina. Absolutely. Now, my opponent is not for making America great again. Sorry. So she's against the tax cuts. And -- this is important -- she's given big money to Pelosi and all her friends. So, Mr. President, I'm going to stand with you on cutting taxes, on building the wall... and draining the swamp. It's all yours. Well, let me join my voice tonight in welcoming the president of the United States to Charlotte, North Carolina. We are so excited about where we find ourselves tonight. You know, I read an article not long ago -- in fact, it was just last week -- where one of the Fox commentators, Marc Thiessen, had actually written an article that said that President Trump -- that you may, indeed, go down as the most truthful president in the history of our country. And what really got my attention was when you read through the article, he built the case in an incredible way, because he reminded us that it was Donald J. Trump that promised us that if he got elected president, he was going to move the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and he got it done. He promised us that he was going to bring historic tax reform. And guess what? He got it done. He told us he was going to roll back regulations and stimulate this economy. And guess what? He's gotten it done. And he told us that he was going to appoint to the United States Supreme Court justices who are originalists and understood their job was to interpret the law, not make the law, because that's the job of Congress. And the only things that haven't gotten done yet, we're going to do it in 2019 when the Congress convenes, because we're going to hold the Republican majority in the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate. Mr. President, I want to join you and let's get the job done. God bless you. God bless America.  Come on, that's pretty good, huh? That's pretty good. Thank you very much. Mark and Ted, thank you very much. Get them to Washington, please, fast. I think they're looking pretty good. What do you think? But I'm here tonight because we can't take any chances, right? Can't take any chances. Get out and vote. Ted's opponent, Kathy Manning, is an extreme liberal Democrat... and a donor, as they said, and a donor to the campaign of Nancy Pelosi. And she's a big fan of Maxine Waters. Maxine Waters. But I'm going to be nice tonight, so I won't say it. I won't say it. I won't say it. I'm going to be nice. I want them to say, he was so nice tonight. Kathy Manning pretends to be a moderate, but she will always be bidding for Pelosi and the far-left donors who are backing her campaign. She's a lefty, and she's always going to be voting on the left. And I know your state very well. We won it handily. And I will tell you, you don't love the left too much. Especially that far left. She wants to raise your taxes, and she is for massive giving of amnesty. So that's the end of her. Mark's opponent, Dan McCready... is another extreme liberal trying to fool voters into believing he's a moderate. Dan McCready will be a vote for Nancy Pelosi and Waters and her radical agenda every single time, every time. You know, a lot of them were unpopular, like in this state. They say such nice things about me. It's incredible. They're never going to vote for us. They say nice in West Virginia. I have a situation. I like him. But he's never going to vote for us. That's the problem. We have so many states where I won, with, by the way, a great vice president, Mike Pence. Mike and Karen Pence. Mike and Karen. Doing a great job. But we won by a lot. And some of the ads are like -- they're ads for me, I said, I didn't know they were Republicans. They're Democrats. They're so nice. But a vote for any Democrat anywhere in the country is a vote to put Nancy Pelosi in the speaker's chair and to put far-left Democrats in charge of every committee and investigation in Congress. Our Congress will come to a halt. A vote for Democrats is also a vote to destroy Medicare. A majority of Democrats on the ballot for Congress have already signed up for a government takeover of health care that would eliminate the private insurance of 5.4 million people from North Carolina. You don't want that. And you'll have to wait. You'll have to wait like our great soldiers, our great warriors. They had to wait for two weeks and three weeks and seven weeks and -- to see a doctor. Do that plan, you'll be waiting for seven weeks to do that, also. We have people from other nations, where they have something similar, they come here when they need help, because they don't have good medical care and they have to wait so long. The Democrat plan would -- it would just obliterate Medicare and terminate Medicare Advantage for almost 7 -- do you know about this? Has anyone heard this? It will obliterate 700,000 North Carolina seniors who have been paying for this for years will not be taken care of anymore. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it. And frankly, if you know about this stuff, they paid for it. They've been paying for it for many years. And Republicans will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. The Democrats will also destroy health care by giving free health care to illegal immigrants and much more than that. As we speak, the Democrat Party is openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and bankrupt our country. That's what has to happen. Democrats' extreme immigration policies will overwhelm your schools, your hospitals, and communities, and strain public resources to the breaking point. And Democrat sanctuary cities, a term you don't love too much around here, release criminal aliens straight out of jail and right onto your streets. Congratulations. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And the Republican Party will always stand proudly with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and law enforcement. And we started the wall, and we'll finish the wall, but we have to do it faster. We want the money to finish the wall. And watch next week what's going to happen, just wait. It'll be exciting. Going to be exciting, Thom. It's going to be great. If you want to uphold our laws, our borders, and our way of life, you need to vote for Ted Budd and for Mark Harris. Go out and vote for them. This election is about borders. This election is about jobs. In less than two years, we have created more than 4.2 million new jobs and lifted more than 4 million Americans off of food stamps. We've created almost half a million new manufacturing jobs. African-American poverty has reached an all-time low. African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment have all reached th"
"Hello, Wisconsin. This is a great state. I am thrilled to be back with the thousands of loyal, hard-working American patriots who, by the way, gave President Trump a win. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Incredible people. I want to begin tonight's rally by addressing the suspicious devices and packages that were mailed to current and former high-ranking government officials. My highest duty, as you know, as president is to keep America safe. That's what we talk about. That's what we do. The federal government is conducting an aggressive investigation, and we will find those responsible, and we will bring them to justice, hopefully very quickly. Any acts or threats of political violence are an attack on our democracy itself. No nation can succeed that tolerates violence or the threat of violence as a method of political intimidation, coercion, or control. We all know that. Such conduct must be fiercely opposed and firmly prosecuted. We want all sides to come together in peace and harmony. We can do it. We can do it. We can do it. It'll happen. More broadly, there's much we can do to bring our nation together. For example, those engaged in the political arena must stop treating political opponents as being morally defective. Have to do that. The language of moral condemnation and destructive routine, these are arguments and disagreements that have to stop. No one should carelessly compare political opponents to historical villains, which is done often, it's done all the time. Got to stop. We should not mob people in public spaces or destroy public property. There is one way to settle our disagreements. It's called peacefully at the ballot box. That's what we want. That's what we want. As part of a larger national effort to bridge our divides and bring people together, the media also has a responsibility to set a civil tone and to stop the endless hostility and constant negative and oftentimes false attacks and stories. Have to do it. Have to do it. They've got to stop. Bring people together. We're just 13 days away from a very, very important election. It's an election of monumental -- just, if you look at it, monumental importance, isn't it? Wouldn't you say, monumental importance? There are dramatic differences between our two political parties. That we know. It is essential for democracy to draw a sharp contrast between the two different platforms put before the American people, and we have a chance to do that right now in many states and on November 6th. We need more, not less debate about policy issues in our country. But what we cannot do is let our disagreements about matters of policy tear us apart as a country. Can't do that. We must accept the verdicts of elections and remember that America's greatest achievements have always been those endeavors we embarked on together. We have had great, great achievements. So true. So let's put it all together, right? Let's put it all together. Let's get along. Great country. We're going to get along. But that's why I'm here today, that's to ask the people of Wisconsin to re-elect a truly great governor, Scott Walker... and to send an incredible woman and talent, Leah Vukmir... to the United States Senate. Leah.  Those are two great people. Scott and Leah are true champions for the state. Always have been. Early voting is now underway, so get out and vote. The decision and this election is so clear all over the country. Republicans are for lower taxes, less regulations, and more economic freedom. And that's a good thing. That's a good thing. The Democrats are for higher taxes, more regulation, and more top-down government control. And by the way, do you see how nice I'm behaving tonight? This is like -- have you ever seen this? We're all behaving very well. And hopefully we can keep it that way, right? We're going to keep it that way. Republicans want to create better health care through more choice, lower drug prices -- and you will see, very soon, drug prices will go plunging downward. You wait, you watch. It's all in motion. And we've created much more competition. Democrats want socialist health care where private plans are outlawed and abolished. Republicans want a strong, secure border, border.  You knew it a long time ago, but when our country is assaulted by thousands and thousands of people marching, and they openly say we're going to go into the country, we can't do that. We can't do that. We can't allow that. It's unfair to you, but it's also unfair to thousands and thousands of people that have gone through a legal process. Some are waiting on line 10 years. Everything is perfect. And they don't get in, but other people just march right in. It will not happen. You watch. It won't happen. We can't let it happen. Those who violate our laws and cross our borders illegally will be sent back home quickly. And we tell them that, because they've got a long hike.  But they can't come. They cannot come in the way they want to come in. Doesn't work that way. We don't have borders, we don't have a country, and we have the greatest country on Earth, OK? Republicans know that the rule of law is essential to national sovereignty. And we know that immigration enforcement is essential to public safety, national security, and the protection of American jobs, wages, and public benefits. You know that. And I said I was going to bring the jobs back. We have factories coming back. We have plants coming back. We have companies coming back. They're all coming back. And the jobs are coming back like you have never seen before. I said it. I just didn't know I could do it this quickly. I just didn't know. Democrats oppose any effort to secure our border. And wait 'til you see what we're doing with our border over the next few weeks. As you know, we started the wall, $1.6 billion, another $1.6 billion, and we have another, but we want to build it very quickly all at one time, and we'll get it done. But wait 'til you see what happens over the next couple of weeks. You're going to see a very secure border. You just watch. Just watch. Very secure. And the military is ready. They're all set. They're all set.  They're all ready, and there's nobody like them. Democrats believe in catch-and-release. You know what that is, right? That's you catch a person coming across our border illegally. What's your name? My name is so-and-so. Well, do me a favor, write it down. Would you show up in about three or four years for a court case?  Yes, I'll show up. And we never see them again! We never see them. They strongly support sanctuary cities that refuse... to cooperate with federal law enforcement and release known gang members, predators, criminal aliens into our communities. That's not going to happen in Wisconsin, I can tell you that. Not going to happen. And we're getting them out fast. MS-13, thousands and thousands of MS-13, they're out. We're getting them out fast because of ICE and other law enforcement. ICE, they come. And other law enforcement. And the Democrats even oppose legislation to increase the penalty for criminals and drug dealers who repeatedly break into our country and hurt and seriously injure and even worse our people. We're not allowing it anymore. And they understand it. And they understand it. Everybody understands it. Republicans believe our judges should interpret the Constitution as written. Democrats believe judges should be able to rewrite the Constitution, which they're doing all the time. Especially when it comes to the border. They end up writing rules and regulations that are worse than anything you've ever seen. But ultimately, we're going to get up to the Supreme Court, and hopefully that great court will straighten things out. And these are just some of the issues in this election. And these are also the reasons why it's so important for each of you, each one, to get out and vote. Get out and vote. Now, if you're going to vote Democrat, don't bother. But if you're going to vote -- I think we have a lot of Republicans here, don't we? So between Scott and Leah, who's in favor of those two great people, right? I thought so. And you got a lot of people outside. This is a beautiful place, by the way. This is a beautiful place. Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning, because we are finally putting America first. Been a long time. It's been a long time. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. Five-oh years. Fifty. Manufacturing confidence has reached an all-time high in the history of our country. I think it's now 38 years old, this poll. It's a long time, could be longer, but I think it probably would also be -- in the history, confidence, all-time high. More people are working now than at any point in the history of the United States. Think of that. And one of the reasons for that is that we have eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations... passed a massive tax cut for working families. And we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. That's all for the middle class. That's on top of the tax cut we got for the middle class and for business. It's going to be great. And you see how it's working. We are taking care of our great veterans, and our military will soon be more powerful, by far, than ever before. Right? And I have to tell you, I know a lot of governors. Some are good, some aren't so hot.  Some are really not so good.  And I want to just tell you, I have to say this to Wisconsin. He ran against me in the primary. He was tough. He could be nasty.  Wow. But he was tough. And he was smart. But I've gotten to know him well, and he did something that I didn't think would be happening in this country for a long time. I got him set up with an incredible company called Foxconn. And Terry Gou, the head, and the owner, and one of the richest men in the world, they make much of the Apple product. And you know I've been saying for a long time, it won't be complete until we get Apple -- and Apple, by the way, is spending $350 billion in this country, bringing back $230 billion from offshore, only because of our tax cuts. And they're going to go wild. They're building a great campus. They're building places all over, $350 billion. I thought it was $350 million. That was -- sounded good. You can do a lot of good plants for three hundred -- they're doing $350 billion, Apple. But Foxconn does much of the work in China and other places for Apple. And they came to Wisconsin with the most incredible plan. I don't know -- has anybody seen this place? It's the most incredible thing I've ever seen. And we toured it, and we had a ribbon-cutting a few months ago. And I handed it over to Scott. And I said, ""Lots of luck.""  That was just the very beginning. Ninety-nine percent of the people if they were governor could never have done that job -- not only do the job, do it so well. It was almost 15,000 jobs. And much more important, there's no plant like it anywhere in the United States. One of the most incredible things I've ever seen. One of the most incredible things. I'll never forget, I'm going around with Scott, and Paul Ryan, and everybody. And -- and -- and, you know, just incredible. You have incredible people here. We're going around at the opening. And they needed robots, so they said, eh, rather than going and buying them from a German manufacturer, we'll make them here. And this is complex stuff, just so you understand. These are the most sophisticated in the world. And you come back three months later, they have a whole robot factory made. It's the most incredible thing. This is truly one of the great plants -- certainly in this country, I don't think there's anything close. And in the world, it's right at the top. And it was done because of Scott Walker. So I just want you to know. You people could have done it. A lot of jobs and all of that, but when you look at it, I've never seen anything like it. Earlier this month, I announced that we are replacing the horrible, horrible NAFTA deal with an incredible brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement. It's called the USMCA because I refused to use the name NAFTA... because I see things from NAFTA -- we still are scarred all over our country where you have empty factories, empty buildings, just by the thousands. And millions of jobs were lost. Big portions of our auto industry was lost to Mexico and other places. NAFTA was a disaster. It was a bad deal from day one. It should have been terminated on day two. And 25 years later, I get it terminated, OK? And the new USMCA, I like that name. USMCA. It works. Now I say it like routinely. At first we had to sort of give it a little thought. Now it's very routine. USMCA. It's a giant victory for Wisconsin farmers, manufacturers, and dairy producers. And I have to say this, because we have a lot of great farmers in this country, but I give Wisconsin a lot of credit for it. Because I came up here once, and it was rough. I was with Ron Johnson, a great person, a great senator who loves you. And Paul. And I was with Scott. And I'm just going around, and farmers came up to me. Sir, sir, could you help me? I don't know that much about farming. But I know about business.  And these great people came up. Sir, sir, Canada just put a surcharge on our dairy product and they did this, and they did that. And I said, it can't be that bad. Then I'd go see another group. Sir -- and they had just put a very onerous tax on a very specific type of specialty milk. What the hell do I know about specialty milk?  And you know what? It's funny. It was a very small part of the market, but it was the wrong thing to do. And it really angered -- because on the big part of the market, in dairy, you are paying 275 percent tariffs. And nobody knew that. But this little tiny part of specialty market, it got you. In other words, you're paying it for years, 275. This little -- which was a fraction of the big market that you accepted and you lived with it. Basically, it was a barrier to Canada. It was a barrier. And they're great people, Canada. But this was a barrier. This little thing got your goat. And I got up here, and I got hit by every farmer in Wisconsin over this.  It was just a step too far, right? You know, you go up to the line. They just went a little too far. And since that time, I never forgot it. So you're really responsible, to a large extent, for the USMCA. I never forgot. And now, as you know, the Canadian market, which was not open, is now open. Go do well. And it's a great agreement. And we're not going to lose our businesses anymore. We're not going to have them move down and build plants and build all sorts of things. And we've gotten tremendous reviews on that agreement. So we're very proud of the USMCA and, to a very large extent, it started here because of a specialty dairy -- little, tiny, dairy product, OK? Really did, because I saw what happened. You were treated unfairly. And your political leaders -- and that's all of them -- they pushed me hard. They said don't forget those farmers. I didn't. And I came back numerous times, and I saw the farmers. But now we have a final agreement. It's going to be approved by Congress I'm sure very quickly. I think statutorily we have to wait a period of time, and then you have to wait again, but it's right on track, doing well. And even -- I must say -- and this is very positive -- even Democrats like this deal. The Democrats like the deal. Can you imagine? It may be bipartisan. Can you believe that? Can you believe that? And that's what we're talking about today. We can do a lot of that. And I think we will do bipartisan on infrastructure. I think we're going to have a lot of that. So that would be great. But thank you very much to the people and to the farmers of Wisconsin. You had a lot to do with it. But two weeks ago, we achieved yet another historic victory for our nation. We proudly confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Right? Wow, was he treated unfairly. That was brutal. That was brutal. I went up to him and I said -- when I decided to -- I chose him out of the finest, brilliant legal minds, scholars in the whole country. And for 10 years, I heard about Brett Kavanaugh. He'll be a Supreme -- young guy -- he'll be a Supreme Court judge some day. I didn't know I was going to be president. I didn't know.  I heard he was going to be a Supreme Court judge. I didn't know I was going to be president. But for years, they talked about him because of his great intellect. And I'll never forget. Just shows you how life is. We're in the White House. I say, Judge, because he was a judge -- now he's a justice -- but I said, Judge, I'm going to choose you for the United States Supreme Court. Now, Judge, this is going to go so fast, so easy, you're so perfect.  You don't have a thing wrong. You're the best student, number one in his class all over the place. You're the best -- a great intellect, a great scholar, your family, your beautiful wife, your beautiful daughters, everyone is so perfect. This is going to go so easy, so fast.  And then I saw the way they made him suffer. But he got through it with style and got through it with grace, and now he's going to be on the United States Supreme Court for a long period of time. And he's a good person. He's a great person. That was a tough treatment. That's what we have to get rid of, that kind of treatment. We have to get rid of it. And he sits alongside of Justice Neil Gorsuch... who we also put on the Supreme Court a little time before. And they're going to defend your rights. They will be defending your rights, your Constitution, and your freedom, right? Not bad. A lot of people say that's the most important decision a president can make. Now, I would say war and peace, and then that, OK, if you don't mind. We'll change because that's the way it is. But it is a very, very important decision, and they are two great people. And I'm very honored. You know, many presidents don't get a chance to put a Supreme Court justice on. Here we are, less than two years, we've put two of them on. Right? So if we go at this clip, we'll put eight of them on. How do you like that idea? Eight! One a year. We'll do one a year. We'll put one a year on. Thank you very much. Very important that we have great, great talents and great people on the Supreme Court of the United States. This will be the election of the caravans, Kavanaugh, law and order, tax cuts, and common sense. A lot of it's common sense. A lot of politics is common sense. We are honored to be joined tonight by many great Republican leaders, including the Wisconsin leader who fought so hard for our tax cuts, regulation cuts, veterans -- hey, we fought for those veterans and choice -- we fought for choice -- and for our great military, in terms of $700 billion, we're rebuilding our military, stronger than ever before, Speaker Paul Ryan. Paul? Where is Paul? Where is he? Where is he? And bring him up? I don't know. I think Secret Service -- looks like they're going to let you -- great job, Paul. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Great. Done a great job. Also here are your Republican members of Congress.  That's right, Duffy, we saw with Duffy. Sean Duffy.  You know, I love champions, OK? I have to tell you this about Sean. So I didn't know. Sean was just a nice-looking young congressman. What do I know? Then I'm watching something and I see a guy going up a tree.  It was a few years ago, but that's OK. He's going up a tree. And they said, it's Sean Duffy. I said, it can't be the one I know.  And it was. And he was the world champion for five years. And I said, that looks tough. He said going up isn't tough. It's coming down. Because a lot of times, you break your legs, you -- I can see that. They just do like a freefall. But you have to use -- how many, every 10 feet, you have to stop, stop, stop. And if you don't stop, you're in a deep trouble.  So Sean's been fantastic. And he's a great political talent, also. Thank you very much, Sean. Thank you. And your family. Look at her over there, huh? Do we love her? Do we like her more than Sean? I think so. Anyway, great family. Thank you both very much. Great job. Glenn Grothman, Glenn, where is Glenn? Thank you, Glenn. What a help he's been on so many things, right? Thank you, Glenn, very much. Great job. And a man who has worked so hard, he is so smart. I actually said to him, you know, people really don't know how smart you are. See, I worked with him on tax legislation, in particular. He knew that stuff better than anybody. He was brutal. He really understood it better than anyone. I said, you are like a hidden weapon. Senator Ron Johnson. And he took that compliment like it didn't matter. He just wanted to get back to work.  Thank you, Ron. Great job. We appreciate it. These people appreciate it. And I also want to thank a woman who works very hard. It's not easy being first lady, especially being first lady of Wisconsin. Tonette Walker, thank you, Tonette. Thank you. Thank you. And Lieutenant Governor Rebecca Kleefisch, thank you. Thank you. Wisconsin State Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald. Thanks, Scott. Thanks, Scott. Good job. And a man I got to know pretty well during a thing called the campaign from two years ago, Wisconsin GOP Chair Brad Courtney. Thanks, Brad. Great job. Great job, Brad. Well, you brought us to victory, so we should -- another man who brought us to victory -- and I'll tell you, he is a special person. He's a great person. It took us all about five years to figure out how the hell to pronounce his name. But now we have it. He's doing fantastically well. He is just really somebody that -- you love him in Wisconsin, they love him in Washington, which is a rare combination, I have to tell you. But he's a very talented guy and a really good person. Former Chief of Staff Reince Priebus. Thank you, Reince. Great guy. We had a lot of fun. That was a lot of fun. And he loves this place. We're especially honored to be here with the next United States senator from Wisconsin, Leah Vukmir.  And you know I like looking at polls -- only when we're winning. I don't like them otherwise.  And I like real polls, too. And Leah -- Leah -- I don't know if you've seen the last polls, you're doing very well, Leah. You're doing very well. Leah is a tireless fighter for the people of Wisconsin. She will always vote for your Wisconsin values. She's a very special person. I've gotten to know her. I don't know if she liked me at the beginning, but she likes me now. Does that make sense?  She likes me know. We've gotten to know each other. She's an incredible woman. Leah's radical, far-left opponent is Tammy Baldwin. Who wants a socialist takeover of health care. You know, I'm trying to say that very nicely. I'm trying to -- see, normally I'd scream it. ""They want a socialist takeover of"" -- now I say wants a socialist takeover...  I'm trying to be nice, OK? Right? But it's true. Baldwin voted against our tax cuts. And she wants to restore job-killing regulations that have helped literally rebuild our country. Baldwin opened and voted against Kate's law, if you can believe that. See voted against the thing that we're proud to have started and we're moving along rapidly, the border wall. And Tammy Baldwin voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities. Not too good in Wisconsin. Tammy Baldwin -- and this is a bad time for being in favor of open borders, but that's what she's in favor of. She wants open borders. She wants people to pour into our country. Can't do that. Can't do that, Wisconsin. So if you want strong borders and safe communities, you need to vote for Leah. They will. They will. They will, Leah.  I think you like her. They like you, Leah. It's going to be a big, big win. It's going to be a big win for you, because you need that kind of representation. Thank you, Leah. Finally, let me introduce a true Wisconsin patriot, somebody that I have really gotten to know -- he's a fighter. And he's become a great friend of mine, one of the most capable people in all of government, Governor Scott Walker. You are, Scott. You are. Scott Walker is a tireless warrior. He is a warrior. Didn't you win, like, three elections last time? Right? He's the only guy who gets elected three times and he doesn't stop. He's a warrior. That was some period of time, right, Scott? Three times! He's a warrior for Wisconsin workers and families.  Go ahead. He's a good man, folks. I can tell you, he's a good man, and he loves this state. He loves the people of this state. He'll cut your taxes -- he's been doing it -- improve your schools -- he's been doing it -- bring down the cost of health care -- he's been doing that as good as anybody -- and continue creating great paying jobs for the state of Wisconsin. Scott fights every day for you, and now we need you to fight for him. And all you have to do is go out and vote. Scott, will you come on up here, please? Come on. Come on. Thank you. Well, thank -- thank you. And thank you, Mr. President. We are so happy to have you back here in the state Wisconsin, north-central Wisconsin. Are you happy to have the president here? Good spot. A couple weeks ago, the president called me when I was with our good friend, Mike Pence, our great vice president. He said, where should we go? He said Wausau. Pretty good crowd here tonight. They're outside and all around. But I got to tell you, we're absolutely pumped up. We've got more people working in this state than ever before in the history of the state of Wisconsin. Eight straight months of record low unemployment. Things are happening, just like they're happening in America. And the president -- the president mentioned my wife, Tonette, who does a super job as our first lady, but many of you know, I said before, she's got Type I diabetes. And, Mr. President, I want to thank you, you said it again today, earlier today, and I want to reinforce it to everyone here in this state and across the country. We will always cover people like my wife with pre-existing medical conditions. Don't believe the lies. Don't believe the lies. We will cover people with pre-existing conditions. You talked about manufacturing jobs. This year, we're the second most new manufacturing jobs in the country in the great state of Wisconsin. And, Mr. President, you talked about Foxconn. It's great to see where we were at back in June with the groundbreaking. But you know what? That helps people all across this state. It helps someone like Alex, who works at Merrill Steel, just down the way here in Schofield, Wisconsin, because he's one of the welders working on that project. It helps the guys that work over at County Materials in Marathon City, just a few miles to the west, who are doing five-and-a-half miles of concrete for the drainage system down there. It helps people in Black River Falls at Hoffman Construction who are moving tons and tons and tons of dirt. It helps people in Eau Claire and in Green Bay and in Appleton and all over the state of Wisconsin who will benefit from the thousands and thousands of good-paying jobs at Foxconn. And it wouldn't have happened without this president opening the door. And we took the ball and ran with it. You know, the president talked about dairy. And I remember, you talked about Reince -- a year-and-a-half ago, April of 2017, the president was talking about buy America down at Snap-on Tools in Kenosha, Wisconsin. And when he came in, we gabbed for a minute, and we just -- as he talked about, we brought in some of the farmers, we talked about the problem, because Grassland had just cut off a bunch of our dairy farmers in this state because of Canada. The president heard about that, and he said, I'm going to bring it up right now. The speech had nothing to do with agriculture. It was all about manufacturing. He took it head on. He said, we will take care of the dairy farmers, and unlike so many politicians in Washington in the past, this president never forgot his promise to the dairy farmers of the state of Wisconsin. He's making dairy great again in America, and it starts in Wisconsin! And I finally want to tell you -- because you want to hear him -- but one last thing, because we don't hear enough of this from the press. You hear all sorts of myths about the tax cut. Well, let me set it straight. These aren't my numbers. These are official numbers from the Wisconsin Department of Revenue. Do you know how much the typical taxpayer saves because of this man's tax cuts, the tax cuts that the members of Congress he introduced help pass and he signed into law? A typical family in this state, that's two people working, two-person working household, two kids at home saves $2,508. That's real money. That's not crumbs. And, Mr. President, we know a thing or two about taxes in this state, because over the last eight years, we've cut taxes on the hard-working people of this state more than $8 billion with lower property taxes and lower income taxes. And we're going to keep doing it, because as my -- as folks heard before, my opponent wants to raise their property taxes. Tony Evers wants to raise their property taxes and income taxes and taxes on gas. More than a dollar a gallon. And what will that do? Tony's taxes will cost us jobs. We're not going to do it. We've got a plan to keep moving Wisconsin forward. And with this president, he's going to keep moving Wisconsin forward for generations to come. Thanks for the help for Wisconsin, Mr. President. Thank you. Good job.  He's a great guy. Scott's opponent is an extreme liberal named Tony Evers. Tony wants to raise your income taxes substantially, wants to raise your gas taxes, raise your property taxes, raise all of your taxes. And Tony Evers wants to get illegal aliens to flood into Wisconsin to get free public benefits funded by you, the American taxpayer. No good. No good. So don't wait. Vote early for Scott Walker. Tremendous guy. Leah -- Leah, would you come up here, please? Just quickly. Come up. She's so incredible. Come here. Come here. This is unscheduled, but I want to say it.  Say something just for a second. Thank you, Mr. President. It is an honor to stand with you. And I am so thrilled that you came back to Wisconsin. You promised me the day you called me after I won that primary, and you followed through on your promise, just like you have followed through on every promise you made for us. Everywhere I go in this great state -- and I looked out when I spoke to all of you before -- and it is overwhelming, because I have put on 92,000 miles on my car, and I see faces from every county that I have visited, all 72 counties, and you all welcomed me over and over and over again, and we are going to send Tammy Baldwin back to the private sector that she doesn't know exists. Everything this president said he was going to do, he's done. And we need to send him someone in Washington, a reinforcement in that Senate, so that Senator Ron Johnson's vote isn't canceled. And I need your help to do that. Taxin' Tammy, she doesn't have your best interests in mind. Taxin' Tammy has voted to increase your taxes 413 times. You heard the governor talk about $2,500. I think it was, $2,508, if I heard correctly. Taxin' Tammy didn't think that you deserved that $2,500. I think you do! And of course, the issue that we have been talking about, health care and health care reform, the big lie that Scott Walker talked about. Tammy Baldwin is saying that same lie over and over and over again. We support taking care of people with pre-existing conditions. I have said it before, I'll say it again, I'll fall in front of a truck before I let people go without coverage for pre-existing conditions. Tammy Baldwin's plan, Medicare for all, you know what name is for it, Mr. President? Go ahead. Chaos for all. Chaos for all, because she wants to destroy, dismantle Medicare, Medicare Advantage, Medicaid, TriCare. I'm not going to let her do it. I need to go to Washington to stand with this man so we fix health care reform once and for all. And one last thing, if I may indulge, Mr. "
"God bless Texas and God bless President Donald Trump We're living in extraordinary times. Today is the first day of early voting in Texas and there's a fundamental choice -- a fundamental choice -- for our state. Do we continue on the road to prosperity, or do we turn back to Obama's stagnation? Do we defend freedom or do we give in to tyranny? Do we embrace jobs, or do we give in to mob? And here in Texas, the United States Senate race provides the clearest contrast of any race in the country in 2018. We've had a couple of debates with as clear a distinction, as anyone can hope for On every issue, on taxes, I'm proud to have worked hand-in-hand with President Trump to pass the biggest tax cut in a generation. We cut taxes on small businesses, on job creators, on farmers and ranchers and on working families throughout the state of Texas. Beto O'Rourke wants higher taxes, Beto voted against the tax cut. He voted repeatedly in favor of higher property taxes. And in El Paso, he even voted for something called a rain tax. I don't even know what that is, but here in Texas we celebrate when it rains, we don't tax you for it. On regulations, I'm proud to have more hand in hand with President Trump to repeal job killing regulations that were hammering the state of Texas Beto O'Rourke Supports higher regulations, hammering oil and gas, hammering the state of Texas. In fact, Beto O'Rourke voted in favor of a $10 a barrel tax on every barrel of oil produced in the state. It's now known as a terrific vote. If you want to raise money in San Francisco, But that is a terrible vote. If you care about jobs in the great state of Texas, Because there are millions of jobs in the state of Texas that depend on a vibrant oil and gas industry and energy industry booming in a state of The culmination of the tax cut and cutting job killing regulations, The economy in Texas is booming. We are right now today producing 33 percent more oil than we did in 2016. We have the lowest unemployment nationally in 49 years. We have the lowest African-American unemployment that has ever been recorded. We have the lowest Hispanic unemployment that has ever been recorded. We have the lowest Asian-American unemployment is ever bad recorded and young people. We got a whole lot of young people here tonight. We have the lowest youth unemployment in 50 years. And, let me say, look across the Toyota Center, where we're used to seeing the Rockets win, and by the way, they're going all the way this year. This is Houston. This is Texas. This is the diversity of our city and state that we want jobs. We want freedom, we want opportunity and we're delivering on it. We're getting there. We're getting there, And the Second Amendment is . In fact, Beto tweeted out to the world how proud he is to have an F rating from the NRA, Not A-, not a D, and I promptly tweeted him. Elections are about choices. If you want big government, grab a liberal. Well, the Democrats are giving you one on Israel. Today, the United States embassy in Jerusalem, the capital of Israel, President Trump, made the bold, courageous, the right decision to move the embassy. I was proud to be in Jerusalem for the opening of the embassy on the 17th anniversary of the creation of the modern State of Israel. O'Rourke has the most anti-Israel record of any Democratic Senate nominee in the country. Let me give you specifics. In 2014, when Hamas was raining rockets down on Israel, Beto was one of eight eight members of the House of Representatives to vote against funding Israel's Iron Dome missile defense system. Virtually every Republican voted yes, virtually every Democrat voted yes. Nancy Pelosi voted yes. Maxine Waters voted yes. Beto voted no. I would stand with the people of Israel. On judges. I'm proud to have helped lead the effort to confirm Justice Neil Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh. Every one of us who cares about the Constitution, who cares about the Bill of Rights, who cares about free speech and religious liberty and the Second Amendment and the 10th Amendment right for the federal government to leave us the hell alone. Those judges matter and for the record, I am not Spartacus, But you can be sure if it had been in the Senate, he'd have put on the tollgates on Spartacus circus -- That's not Texas. On immigration, There is no race in the country with a starker divide on immigration than this US Senate race. Here in the state of Texas, on my part, I am honored to have the formal endorsement of the National Border Patrol Council, the union of the men and women who risk their lives, keeping the border safe and protecting our country. Beto O'Rourke not only opposes the wall, but he says we have too many border walls and fences already. We need to tear down the border walls, We already have. He supports sanctuary cities, and he said he is, quote, open to -- these are his words -- open to abolishing ICE. That is radical. That is reckless, and that is not the state of Texas. Not only this, O'Rourke is the only Democratic Senate nominee in the country to come out explicitly for impeaching President Donald Trump. He said he would vote right now today to impeach President Trump in this state is running to the left of Elizabeth Warren, to the left of Bernie Sanders, and the state of Texas is not going to stand for it. In Texas, we support enforcement. In Texas, we support our veterans. In Texas, we stand for the national anthem, the way you do for who we are. I'm going to make a prediction to each and every person here. In 2020 Donald Trump will be overwhelmingly re-elected as president of the United States, I'm honored that President Trump is here endorsing and supporting my campaign, and I look forward to campaigning alongside him in 2020 for his re-election as President of the United States. I have the honor to give to you the 45th President of the United States, President Donald J. Trump. Do we have a great country or what? Great country. Hello, Houston. I'm thrilled to be back. Well, you treated me very well during a certain election two years ago. With all my friends from the Lone Star State, a special, special place, thank you very much for being here. This is some record crowd. And they just told me we broke the record, but we could really break it if we could get all the people that are outside in here. We'd break it by three times. But it's true what they say: Everything in Texas is just bigger. Right? It's bigger. In just 15 days, the people of Texas are going to re-elect a man who has become a really good friend of mine. You know, we had our little difficulties, right? But actually, if you remember, the beginning, it was a love-fest. And they kept saying, the fake news back here, they kept saying... Remember they kept saying, well, when is it going to break up? And it's day, don't worry, it'll break up. We actually had a rally in Washington, D.C., together. And nobody could believe it. They said, what's going on? What are you doing? But we had the rally together. And then we said, you know, it's time. That's what has to happen. And it got nasty. And then it ended. And I'll tell you what, nobody has helped me more with your tax cuts, with your regulation, with all of the things that we're doing, including military and our vets, then Senator Ted Cruz. Nobody. He defended your jobs. He defended your borders. And we are defending that border, by the way, in case you haven't noticed. We are defending that border. He defends your families. He defends your faith. And we are defending together, with a lot of other great Republicans, your freedom. Now, early voting is now underway. So get out there and vote. It is underway as we speak. If you'd like to leave now, go ahead. Anybody want to leave, go vote, come back. Get behind about 50,000 people outside. Who we love. And we put big screens out for them. Let's wave to them. Wave! But I will say, you got a better location. Your location's better. And Ted is leading the Congress in Congress for more tax cuts. In fact, I just left Kevin Brady. By the way, how good is Kevin Brady? He's here. We're going to be putting in a 10 percent tax cut for middle-income families. It's going to be put in next week, 10 percent tax cut. Kevin Brady is working on it. We've been working on it for a few months, a 10 percent brand-new -- and that is in addition to the big tax cuts that you've already gotten. But this one is for middle income. This is -- no business. Business is now good. They're coming back. The jobs are coming back. The plants and factories are coming back like never before. They're all coming back. This is for middle-income people, all middle-income people, a big tax, 10 percent. We'll be putting it in next week. Now, if the Democrats take over -- I can't speak, I'm sorry. Instead of a tax cut, you're going to have a big, beautiful tax raise. You don't want that. You know, explain that to me. They're for open borders, which means crime, and for massive tax cuts. They're against law enforcement, they're totally against ICE and law enforcement. They're against your military, and they're not good to your vets. How do you win on that platform? No, how do you win? So we're doing again -- we've done the biggest regulation cuts in the history of our country. And I'm only here for almost two years, actually quite a bit less than two years, if you think about it. We have another three months. And we've already done more tax cuts -- and we have already done -- biggest tax cut, but we've done more regulation cuts than any other president in history, and that's four years, eight years, 12 years. And what we're doing -- we want people to come into our country. We have a 3.7 percent unemployment. It's the lowest it's been in more than 50 years. But they have to come in legally, and they have to come in through merit. Through merit.  That's happening. We need it. So we started the wall. They've got $1.6 billion. We got another $1.6 billion. We have a third $1.6 billion. I want to do it fast. And, you know, what's happening right now, as a large group of people -- they call it a caravan. Do you know how the caravan started? Does everybody know what this means? I think the Democrats had something to do with it. And now they're saying, I think we made a big mistake. Because people are seeing how bad it is, how pathetic it is, how bad our laws are, they made a big mistake. So as the caravan -- and, look, that is an assault on our country. That's an assault. And in that caravan you have some very bad people. You have some very bad people. And we can't let that happen to our country. And it's not. And I was just talking to your great governor and senators and you were talking about your attorney general, who I'm going to be introducing in a second. But I'm talking to a lot of your people, and they're going to form a wall, a different kind of wall, until we get the other one built. We need a wall built fast. Fast. We have to protect our borders. We don't have borders, we don't have a country. We have to protect our borders. And Ted, you probably saw, did a beautiful job in staring down an angry left-wing mob in our recent Supreme Court battle victory. Whatever you want to call it. He was great. And thanks to Ted, and our other great Republicans, because we had no help from the other side, as you know, we now have a brand-new member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And also, this is such an honor, because, you know, you've had many presidents. They never get to put a justice on the Supreme Court. They've been there for a long time. Think of this. This is the story of our lives. I've been there less than two years, and I have two of them, because we also have... a fantastic new justice in Neil Gorsuch. We had him just approved. He was just confirmed. And we have a record number of circuit court judges for the time that we've been in office. And that we fully expect to go to the all-time record. And percentagewise, it's right up there, and we've only been here a short -- OK, ready? Here's the question. Percentagewise, who has more justices, federal judges appointed, percentwise than any other president? Who is it? No, more. Who -- who appointed the highest percentage of judges? No, no, no, it wasn't Hillary Clinton. No, she didn't make it, remember? She didn't make it. No, you know who it is? You'll never guess. It's called George Washington. And we're after George Washington. So a very big thing. No, George Washington, why? Because he just started. He did 100 percent. Nobody's ever going to break that record. Nobody's ever going to break the record of George Washington. Good, old George. He never told a lie. That's what they say. George Washington, right? He never told a lie. But he did 100 percent of the judges. We'll never beat that record. But we're getting close. What the radical Democrats did to Justice Kavanaugh and his beautiful family... is a national disgrace. They were on a ruthless mission to obstruct, resist, delay, demolish, and destroy, which is all they know how to do. The fact is, they're lousy politicians, they have horrible policy, but they stick together. That's one good thing, they stick together. The only thing they have. They always stick together. Other than that, doesn't work out. Other than that, they're not doing too well. If you want the fake news media to finally investigate... By the way, by the way...  Don't worry. I don't like them either, OK? But look at this. Look. Just look. So here we are, we're doing a rally for Ted, and it's great, we have a lot of people. Look how many made it. This is like -- it's like -- this is the Academy Awards, which actually has gone down the tubes. I think we do much better. Look how many. Look how many. Look at them. Do you recognize many of those happy faces back there? I know every one of them. I know every one of them. And 15 percent of them are great.  Every one. I know every one. But if you the fake news to finally investigate Hillary Clinton, we'll just have... Man.  I didn't do it. I didn't do it. I didn't do it. So if you want them to investigate, we'll just have to nominate Hillary Clinton to the United States Supreme Court. How do you like that? Right? Let's see how she does. If Judge Kavanaugh had to go through what he went through -- and there is -- he's a fine man -- can you imagine Hillary up there? That would take three to four years of questions.  At stake in this election is whether we continue the extraordinary prosperity that we've all achieved or whether we let the radical Democrat mob take a giant wrecking ball and destroy our country and our economy. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. Five-oh. Here's one that's hard to beat, because the number of Americans working at this moment -- think of it -- at this -- working, working, working -- the number of Americans working has just reached the highest in the history of our country. All-time high. We have eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations. That's one of the reasons our companies are all coming back. Republicans passed the biggest tax cut and reform in history with massive tax cuts for the middle class. And now we're adding 10 percent to those numbers. We've saved your family farms, ranches, and small businesses from the estate tax, also known as the death tax. So most of you love your children. Some of you don't.  But the ones who don't, don't listen to me, because this won't matter, because you're not going to leave it anyway. And if you don't love your children, and if your children didn't treat you good, don't leave them anything.  Give it to charity or somebody else. But for those of you that really would like your small businesses, your farms, your ranches left to your children instead of now having your children go out when you kick the bucket, a sad day, and about two or three days later, they're happy as hell. No, forget it.  Instead of have them -- instead on having them go out and borrow a tremendous amount of money to pay the estate tax, they don't have to borrow anything. There's no tax. There's no tax. So you'll be able to -- to me, that's a very important thing. Nobody even talks about it. That was in our -- that was in our tax cuts. So a lot of small business, a lot of farms, ranches, and there will be no tax. So that's great for your children. Only if you love them. Only if you love them. Anybody in here does not love their child? Anybody?  A couple of you. Two people. That's not bad. My administration also ended the horrible war on American energy, something you people know a lot about. He withdrew the United States from the very unfair, one-sided Paris climate accord, which was putting us out of business. On day one, I approved the Keystone and the Dakota Access pipeline, 48,000 jobs, day one. Day one. Think of that, day one. They spent years and years trying to get these pipelines built. And by the way, we're speeding up the approval process by a factor of 10 for your pipelines that you desperately need in Texas to get the oil to its destination. We're speeding it up. I've heard so much. With Texas leading the way, think of this one, the United States is now -- this happened over the last very short period of time -- the largest producer of crude oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. Thank you. That's pretty good. That's big stuff. We're the number-one energy producer in the world. Who would think that? And we're going to get those pipelines approved very rapidly. I called the heads of agencies. I say, get them approved. And, you know what, if there's a problem, we let them know about the problem immediately. We don't take them 20 years down the road and then say we can't approve it. We let them know immediately. There won't be a problem. For the first time in more than 60 years, America is a net exporter of natural gas. And here's good news for Texas. Good news for Texas. Because just today, Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel has announced that her country will now purchase massive amounts of LNG, which is great news for your state. And I told all of the European nations, it's not fair. We have all these horrible trade imbalances. They take such advantage. They're not taking advantage anymore, folks. Under Republican leadership, America is winning again, America is respected again, because we are putting America first. We're putting America first. It hasn't happened in a lot of decades. We're putting them first. We're taking care of ourselves for a change, folks. Thank you. I like that guy, but not that much. Not that much. But radical Democrats want to turn back the clock for the rule of corrupt power-hungry globalists. You know what a globalist is, right? You know what a globalist is? A globalist is a person that wants the globe to do well, frankly, not caring about our country so much. And you know what? We can't have that. You know, they have a word. It sort of became old-fashioned. It's called a nationalist. And I say, really, we're not supposed to use that word. You know what I am? I'm a nationalist, OK? I'm a nationalist. Nationalist. Nothing -- use that word. Use that word.  They reported yesterday that Donald Trump is very unpopular with foreign nations. He's one of the most unpopular presidents in the history of polling. And I said -- no, I said, of course I'm unpopular with foreign nations, because we're not letting them rip us off anymore, folks, OK? They meant it to be bad. When the fake news -- they meant it to be bad. Donald Trump, very unpopular with other nations. And you know what I had? It was 70 percent against and 30 percent for. I said, who is the 30 percent? Why would they ever want to vote for him? Because, honestly, we're treating everybody good. We're helping people. We're protecting people. But, you know, when we protect with our military, the greatest in the world, and now it's a lot better than it's ever been because of what we're doing... We have to be reimbursed for that protection. We have to be reimbursed. We're protecting the wealthiest nations in the world. And we're subsidizing them. And then they beat us on trade. They take advantage of us. So those days are over. You're seeing it, it's happening fast. Happening fast. The most unpopular president. Think of that. Most unpopular president. But I'm one of the most popular presidents in this country, and that's good. That's just good. In our country. A couple of polls came out today that were very good. And they didn't want to put them on. They didn't want to announce them. And they paid for the polls. We have a new poll out. Let me see. Oh, let's get to another subject. Fake news. The Democrats want to replace freedom with socialism. They want to replace Texas values with Nancy Pelosi values. And they want to replace the rule of law with the rule of the mob. That's what is happening. And the Democrats would rather destroy American communities than defend America's borders. Not going to let it happen. Got to vote for Ted Cruz. Democrats -- the Democrats are a big risk to the American family, and our country cannot afford to take those kind of risks. We can't. This will be the election of the caravan, Kavanaugh, law and order, tax cuts, and common sense. That's what it is, common sense. Ted's opponent in this race is a stone-cold phony named Robert Francis O'Rourke, sometimes referred to as Beto. And he pretends to be a moderate, but he's actually a radical open-borders left-winger. That's what he is. And I know Texas well. Don't forget, they tried to convince you on Election Night that Texas is in play. I kept hearing -- I'd go to a thing, and I'd have -- remember the lines I'd have for the speeches? Would have lines like it is tonight. I hate to tell you, I think the lines are bigger tonight than they were two years -- you know why? Because I produced. I produced. Because I produced. No, the lines are bigger tonight. And it's easier. You know, two years ago, two-and-a-half years ago, I'd have to get up and say, we will give you tax cuts, we will cut regulations. But it was all words. Now I've produced, so this is easy. This is easy. In fact, some of those guys -- and they don't question it -- will say that I produced more than I promised, which is true. Which is true, actually. But O'Rourke voted against your tax cuts and he went against Texas oil workers with the job-killing regulations and taxes that were really, really hurting those jobs and those companies. O'Rourke supports a socialist takeover of health care. You're going to triple your taxes and it won't be enough. And it will be lousy health care. You'll end up waiting for five weeks to see a doctor. And I heard Ted say just before I went on, but to me this is a beauty, because I don't know of anybody that's earned this rating. He got an F from the NRA, one of the few. You know -- you know what an F means? An F means he wants to take away your guns, OK? That's what it means. I never even heard of an F. I never heard. Louie, did you ever hear of an F? I never heard. Do we love Louie? Do we love Louie? Look at him. Louie Gohmert. I don't know what Louie's rating is, but I would assume it's about, what, an A-plus, right? A-plus-plus. Louie. I love people that are gutsy -- they have guts. He has guts. It's up there. They defend you. And they defend your Second Amendment. And if Ted doesn't win, your Second Amendment is going to be in trouble. Big trouble. Remember that. O'Rourke voted against the border wall, oh, that's a good thing to -- he voted against Kate's law. And he voted for Obama amnesty, amnesty, Obama amnesty. O'Rourke even voted to shield MS-13 gang members from deportation. He doesn't want to deport them. He says they're people. They're people. They carve you up with a knife, but they're people. O'Rourke voted in favor of sanctuary cities that result in the death of countless Americans. Today's Democrat Party would rather protect criminal aliens than American citizens, which is why the Democrats must be voted out of office. We need more Republican votes. A vote for a Democrat this November is a vote to surrender Congress to Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer, the great Maxine Waters, that's a beauty. Maxine Waters. Did you get that one? You get that? Maxine. She's going to be in charge of your finances. Maxine. Good old Maxine. Low IQ individual.  Low IQ. How about this one? Senator Dianne Feinstein. The mayor who did one of the worst jobs of any mayor, other than the guy running for governor in Florida. He was a horrible mayor, too. Cory Booker. He destroyed what he did. He was so bad running Newark. And a sad thing happened last week. Because Elizabeth Warren was exposed as being a total fraud. And I can no longer call her Pocahontas, because she has no Indian blood! I can't call her... I can't call her Pocahontas. She doesn't qualify. She has -- I've been saying for a long time. I've been saying it for a year-and-a-half, I said I have more Indian blood than she has, and I have none. I have none. But I have more than she has. But I can't use the name Pocahontas anymore. But if you don't mind, I will anyway. Is that OK? We got to keep her down. But in this election, the people of Texas are going to make a giant and beautiful stand. You're going to elect a Republican House. And even they're having a little problem. They're getting a little nervous, right? Remember, about a month ago, right, they were talking about this blue wave. Oh. You don't hear about the blue wave. You're not hearing so much. The blue wave is being dissipated a little bit. I don't hear them talking -- are you guys still talking about the blue wave? The blue wave, that's coming, right? Blue wave. You don't hear about it too much. Let me tell you, you got to get out and vote. Because you know what happens? The party that has the presidency -- I don't know why. I guess you get a little sedate, I guess you get a little something. Who knows? You lose something. I don't know. But I think two times since the Great Depression, it was a positive. But nobody ever had the condition of having produced the greatest economy in the history of our country, right? Nobody. So I don't understand, why would we lose the House? But historically -- so history is against us, but the facts are all with us. So I think we're going to do well. You have to get out and vote. Early voting, remember. But I think we're going to do great with the House and we're going to do fantastic with the Senate so that we can keep making America great again. And, you know, we're going to be changing. I love that -- I hate to -- OK, let me ask your advice, right? Texas, you're smart, you're tough. So we have make America great again. I think it has to be the greatest slogan in the history of politics, right? Make America great again. What did she have? Some stupid slogan like stay together.  Remember -- and then when I knocked it -- or wasn't it like stay with me? And then I got up, and I said, see, that's all she can talk about is herself. So they paid a million dollars for that slogan and she changed it the next morning because it was a disaster. Stay with me. They didn't do that. They decided not to. So here's what happened. Make America great again. But now we're running -- we're doing good. We've come so -- you know, we've created $11.7 trillion. And, remember, we're hitting China hard. We're hitting everybody hard. We're doing these trade deals. So we're doing this. When they all kick in, you'll see numbers like you wouldn't believe. But we've created $11.7 trillion. Other countries, China, you've never seen this before with China. Remember, it was always China's doing so great, China, China, everything's China. I said, what about us? Well, we're down. We're not down anymore, folks! We're way up. Way up. We're way up. Way up.  And, by the way, I want China to do well, but they went down 32 percent over the last six months and we went way up. And since our election, we've gone up almost 50 percent. Think of it, $11.7 trillion we created. China has lost about $20 trillion. We want them to be happy, we want them to do well, but they have to treat us fairly. They haven't treated us fairly. And they will. They have a wonderful, great leader, President Xi, and they will. The choice in November could not be more clear. Democrats produce mobs. Republicans produce jobs. Right?  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. It's a great state. These are great people. And did we ever help you -- hey, did, honestly, you know we were here a lot. Did we help you with that lousy hurricane that you suffered through? That sucker was brutal. That was brutal. I never saw anything like it. It kept coming in. It was taunting us. Have you ever been taunted? It was taunting. It would come in and you'd say, oh, great, now it's -- then it goes out, it reloads, it comes in. Then it dumps. Then it goes out. Then it comes -- three times. And I'm paying for that. I'm saying, is this thing ever going to stop? Will it just go away? That was a brutal -- that was a brutal hurricane. And you know who was fantastic? The United States Coast Guard. You know, because that was a very big deal, and there was a lot of water. And I don't know who in this room did it, but these guys with the little boats, they think they have this great boat, OK? Where do these people come from? They want to go out and they want to go into the hurricane to show their wife how great they are? And then they get out and they say, oh, my god, I'm dead. And I asked one of the Coast Guard guys, I said, so let me ask you a question. When they go out -- by the way, the Coast Guard, hard to believe, they saved in Texas more than any other place. Florida had a bad one, but it wasn't the same kind. In Texas, the United States Coast Guard saved 16,000 lives. Think of what that is. Think of what that is. And I said to a couple of the top guys -- these are great people. I said, let me ask you a question. When these boats, what happens? He said, well, they want to go out, they want to sort of play at the edge. But there was no edge to this big monster. And it gobbled them up. And these guys are going through it. I said, how big is a thing like that? You have great equipment, you have the greatest boats. They said, sir, we have the best boats in the world, but we hit that thing wrong, we don't have a chance. These are great boats. He said, we go down just like everybody else. And they would ride the crest. They call it ride the crest. They'd back up. They'd let it go by. They'd come in. They'd save a lot of people. They'd go back out. Then it came back out. The Coast Guard, their brand has appreciated more than any brand in this country, the United States Coast Guard. We have to say it. They did a great job. And next time, all you guys and gals, when there's a hurricane, do me a favor. Don't take your boat out. Just get out of town for a little while. That was a brutal period of time. But you did incredibly. And you really -- FEMA was great. Law enforcement was great. First responders were great. The military. But the Coast Guard represented the military. Incredible. So we were honored to be joined this evening by many great Republican leaders. Here tonight is a man who is incredible. He is a man with tremendous spirit. He asked me for more money than any human being has ever asked for. I got to tell you -- first, his name happens to be Governor Greg Abbott. Where is he? Where is he? Where is he? Where is Greg? Where is he? He's the greatest guy. Where is he? I think he's -- there are a lot of people in this room. But, you know, Greg, I just took pictures with him backstage. I think -- do we like him more than Trump? Yes, right? No, yes, I do. I like him more than Trump. But he called me up. And we have just given billions and billions of dollars to the state of Texas. And he goes, Mr. President, could I ask you one small question? ""What?"" He said, sir, we'd like to build a dam, and it's not very much money, but it would really help us for the next hurricane. It would keep the waters out of Houston. You know where he's talking about right? And he said it was just a small favor, but if I could, I'd like to ask you for that money. I said, Greg, how much is it? This -- how many -- $35 billion, $40 billion? I said, Greg, how much is it? Sir, it's only $10 billion. I said, wait a minute. Say it again. "
"Thank you very much. And hello, Nevada. Hello, Nevada. I'm thrilled to be right here in Elko with you, thousands and thousands of proud, hard-working American patriots. Patriots. In just 17 days, the people of Nevada are going to re-elect Senator Dean Heller to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and to continue making America great again. That's what we're doing. Early voting starts today, so you got to get out. This is truly an amazing time for our country. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. More Americans are working today than at any time in our history. Think of that. More people are working in our country today than at any point in the history of our country. That's not bad. How do you lose an election with that stat, right? That's a tough one. That's a tough one. Here in Nevada, personal incomes have reached an all-time high. Congratulations. Spend your money well. America now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world. Think of that. We're the number-one economy with the world. We're the hottest economy in the world. It's amazing. Amazing. Pretty amazing, right? A couple of years ago, we were looked upon as being laggards. They're laggards! I read that word with one of the fake news folks, they wrote the word, we're laggards. Do you notice the good location they got? They're so close. And look at all those people standing behind, they can't see. I'd rather have it the other way around, frankly. We're taking care of our veterans and our military will soon be more powerful than it ever has been ever, ever, ever before. And under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning, because we are finally putting America first. Just last week, we achieved another historic victory for the American people. In a beautiful ceremony -- thank you, sir. You know what I say? But he's just not my type.  Thank you. We had a beautiful ceremony in the White House where we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. He now sits alongside Justice Neil Gorsuch to defend your rights, your Constitution, and your God-given freedom. What the radical Democrats did to Justice Kavanaugh and his beautiful family is a national disgrace. It is. The Democrat Party has become an angry, ruthless, unhinged mob determined to get power by any means necessary. Your vote in this election will decide which party controls Congress. The choice for every American could not be more clear. And, by the way, I have to thank Dean Heller for helping us with Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh. Dean Heller was there. Dean Heller was there right from the beginning. So Democrats produce mobs. Republicans produce jobs. That's become hashtag. Right? That's called hashtag. That's a new hashtag. That's a hot one. This November, vote for jobs, not mobs. If Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer, and the radical Democrats take over Congress, which would be a shame, they will try to plunge our country into a nightmare of gridlock, poverty, and chaos. And by the way, your 401(k)s? Boom, they will go down like a sinking something. What sinks rapidly? Give me -- a rock. They will go down like a rock. Democrats want to massively raise your taxes, impose socialism on our country. We'll be another Venezuela. They want to take away your health care, destroy your Second Amendment, and I think the people in Nevada are not big on having your Second Amendment taken away. Not a big point. That's not a good sound bite. How do they win an election? Do we really have an election here? Think of it, they want to take away your Second Amendment, they want to raise your taxes, they want to open your borders, let people in, illegally. And then they want to pay for those people for health care, for education. They want to give them cars, they want to give them driver's licenses. I said last night, we did a great -- we did a great, great rally in Arizona last night, and I said -- I said last night, what kind of car will they supply them? Will it be a Rolls-Royce? The Democrats want to throw open your borders to deadly drugs and gangs and anybody else that wants to come in. And they really have. And I say this, and at first I used to say, wow, that's a tough statement, but it's true. Democrats are the party of crime. This will be the election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law and order, tax cuts, and common sense. We got you those -- those big taxes. Don't forget the big tax cuts. And we're going to get you more. The Democrat Party has become too extreme and too dangerous to be trusted with the power that they want. I need everyone here today to cast your vote, ideally today. How about raising your right hand? Do you promise you will leave this site, go out, and cast your vote right now? And hopefully you'll vote for Adam Laxalt and hopefully you'll vote for Dean Heller. Get out there. But you do, you have early voting. And you can go out and do it today. And that way you don't have to wait. And, you know, a big portion of your state does do early voting, which is surprising. Very unusual. But you're a very unusual state, right? So when you leave, we really hope that you can volunteer, give your directions -- we have volunteers all over the place, they'll give you directions. We have places right down the road. So go out and do what you have to do. We're going to have a big victory. We have to have a big victory. This state is really one of the states that's talked about. This is a great race. It's an exciting race. He's running against wacky Jacky, right? Wacky Jacky. That's what we need, we need a wacky Jacky in Congress, another one. We're honored to be joined today by your next governor, Adam Laxalt. Where is Adam? Where is Adam? He's around. Come up here, Adam. He's a great guy. I have known Adam for a long time. He's a veteran, he's a patriot, and he's a real leader. But he is a great, great person. Adam, you got to win, Adam. All right. Are we motivated? Are we grateful for the president coming here to Elko? The president cares about rural Nevada. He knows how important you all are, how important that we keep the economy going. He has helped bring Elko to 3 percent unemployment. How about that? We have to keep this momentum going. And we have a clear choice for this state. Are we going to keep Nevada the Nevada we all love, this independent western state, or are we going to turn into California? We're not going to let that happen, are you? We need everybody. We need everybody to get extra motivated. We need to support the president and we need to support Republicans up and down the ticket. God bless you guys. Thanks so much. He's doing really well, but you got to go out and you got to vote. You got to. His opponent is a far-left Democrat, you know that, who wants to massively raise your taxes. He wants to raid your health care. He wants to fund socialism, because that's what it is, and he wants to open your borders, wide open. Other than that, he's a great guy. So everybody needs to get out and vote, today, ideally, but sometime before the 6th for Adam Laxalt. And everybody also needs to support your great congressman, Mark Amodei. Where is he? Where is he? Thank you, Mark. He is a great guy. And another great guy, who I said stay home, Danny -- stay home, Danny, and just work. Danny Tarkanian, he is a great guy. So you don't get a chance over here to vote for him, so you know what I said? Don't come, Danny. Just stay in your district. But Danny was really great. He's been great. He's been a great friend of ours for a long time. Danny Tarkanian, going to be a great congressman. Hopefully he gets over the line, because we need him. Finally, I'm thrilled to introduce a man that I spent a long time getting to know. At first I fought him. I said, this guy's tough. What's the story here? Don't forget, I haven't been doing this long, right? You know, some of these guys, the senator came into my office, all right, Politician, and he said how he's had tremendous victory at the ballot booth. He was trying to convince me to do something. This isn't Dean, somebody else. He said I've been in seven races and, sir, I won five of them. And I said, yeah, I've been in one race and I've won one. And it was the presidency. And it was the presidency. It was the presidency. And we'll have one more race, let's win that one, and I'll say I'm two for two and let somebody have fun. Then somebody else will have some fun, right? But I got to know Dean very well. And I'll tell you, once we understood each other -- and he's a tough guy and he's a smart guy and he loves this state a lot -- once we really got to know each other and understand, there's no better partner that I had in Washington than Dean Heller. And he's a fantastic guy with an incredible family, wife, who I just -- we just flew in together. But when it came to tax cuts, there was nobody tougher, there was nobody smarter. When it came to all of the things we're doing, including what we're doing, we got rid of the individual mandate, which is the worst, most unpopular thing from Obamacare. We actually had Obamacare totally repealed and replaced, we couldn't get one Democrat vote, not one. And we repealed. But now, if you notice, your premiums are way, way down. Nobody thought that was possible. And it's been very much dismantled, but it will be ultimately totally dismantled. We had it done, we were a little disappointed in one vote. But we were also disappointed that we didn't get one Democrat vote in the Senate. But a man that -- you're right, what do you expect? The one thing they're good at -- I'll tell you what, they're lousy politicians, they have horrible policy. Think of this -- you're running for office and your policy is raise taxes and open borders and crime. Because basically it's crime. How do you win an election? How do you do it? So the -- the one thing they do, they obstruct. And, you know, their whole campaign, you know what they say? Resist. See, ours is called make America great again. Right? Very soon, we keep going like we're going, sooner than we thought, it's going to be keep America great. That'll be for the second four years. Keep America great. And you know what theirs is? Theirs is resist. Resist. What do you think of that? Resist. How do you figure that, resist? Isn't that an inspiring -- we are going to resist. What are you going to resist? Anything, anything. But I want to introduce a man that really has done a fantastic job. I'll tell you, it's true. Once he started -- once we were on the same page, and we are now always on the same page, he has been as strong and tough and smart as anybody in Washington. We got to send him back. We need him badly, Senator Dean Heller. President Trump, thank you for coming to Elko. Welcome to Trump country. Home of the -- home of the Elko Indians. Home of the Spring Creek Spartans. And designated best small town in America. Mr. President, this is not the swamp. Now, Mr. President, you know a little bit about gold. In fact, I think everything you touch turns to gold. The mines here in Elko and next door, the Eureka County, produce more coal, more gold here than anywhere else in the country. Welcome to gold country. Now, Mr. President, I had a debate last night. The only reason I had that debate is because you embarrassed my opponent into having it.  He came to Las Vegas and said Jacky Rosen will not debate Dean Heller. Two days later, she agree to a debate. Mr. President, thank you. Now, I want to have a debate in Reno. And she said no. I said I want to have a debate here in Elko, and she said no. She will only campaign in Las Vegas. So let me tell you what the message is. If you're a Republican, if you're a Democrat, or you're an independent, you don't live in Las Vegas, you are written off. That's the message. So here's is the point. Here's the point. We're going to work hard. We're going to move this country forward. This president is doing a great job. Early voting -- early voting starts today. Let's send a message to the Rosen campaign that we want a senator for all of Nevada. Someone who will fight for Las Vegas, someone who will fight for Reno, someone who will fight for Elko. My heart is right here in Nevada. That's where my heart is. My voice and your voice is together with mine in Washington, D.C. Mr. President, thank you for making America work again. Thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Heller. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. And by the way, they did debate last night, and I may be a little bit partial, he really beat her badly. That I will say. He beat her very badly. And, you know, the other thing they don't tell you about wacky Jacky, but I know, because I see where her money is all coming from, like, Los Angeles and New York. It's not coming from here. It's coming from New York and Los Angeles. She's not getting the money from here. He gets his money from here. He gets his drive and his energy from here, also. So Dean delivers. And every single day, he delivers for our workers and our families, our veterans, our miners. He's delivering. Our miners, we love the miners. Look at that. Whoa. That's a lot of miners. We love our miners. Dean worked tirelessly to pass V.A. choice, V.A. accountability. You know, 44 years they've been trying to pass these things, choice, so that a veteran is sick, he gets on line, he's got to wait forever. He's got to wait forever, days, weeks, months. And we just passed -- after 44 years, we just got it passed, I signed it two months ago, Veterans Choice, so that if they have to wait on line for 12 days or 14 days or 32 days, or much longer than that -- can you believe it? People are sick, but not bad. By the time they see the doctor, they're terminally ill. OK, it could have been solved. They go immediately to see a doctor privately. We pay for their bill. They're fixed. Frankly, it's not what I'm doing it for. We save money, if you can believe this. It's good. We go right to a private doctor. If they have a long wait, they go right to a private doctor. And 44 years, they couldn't get that one passed. And, you know, V.A. accountability, because, frankly, of the unions and because of civil service, 46 years, V.A. accountability. They treat our veterans badly, you can't do anything. They're sadistic! We had that, too. I'll tell you what, they wouldn't have been sadistic when that veteran was A-OK, because they wouldn't have had a shot at it, right? Not when the veteran was OK. But they took advantage. And they had a lot of things they did wrong. You couldn't do a thing. You couldn't -- they could steal. They could cheat. They could actually be sadistic, horrible to our veterans. And now we just look at them and we say, get your ass out of here, you're fired. Forty-four years, so we're pretty good at getting things approved. We're pretty good at getting things approved. You know, in the V.A. choice, I thought it was like a genius thing I thought up, because I heard they were waiting so long, months sometimes to see a doctor, and waiting on line. Can you imagine? Even if you have something minor, that -- a pill, a prescription, something easy could do. And, by the way, drug prices are going to be coming down. You see that already. But I thought it was so brilliant, I came back to my group, I said, I got the greatest idea, because I haven't been doing this that long, so, you know, it wasn't like high on my list, but it became high. I did know the veterans were never treated fairly. But I said, I have the greatest idea. We're going to do this. If a veteran has to wait, we're going to send them to a private doctor. We'll pay the bill. What a genius -- I said, I said, how good is that? They said, sir, we've been trying to get it passed for 44 years. So I was good at getting things passed. That's what I did. A vote for wacky Jacky is a vote to hand control of Congress to Nancy Pelosi... crying Chuck Schumer, and, of course, the legendary Maxine Waters. A low IQ individual. Jacky votes against the people of Nevada every chance she gets. She voted no on tax cuts, no on better health care, no on border security, and Jacky voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities. I don't think we like sanctuary cities up here. By the way, a lot of people in California don't want them, either. They're rioting now. They want to get out of their sanctuary cities. You know, there's a big turn being made, folks. A lot of these sanctuary cities you've been hearing about in California and other places, but California, they want to get out, they're demanding they be released from sanctuary cities. Jacky also joined the Democrat assault on Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And don't forget that when you vote. That's why I want you to vote today, because you definitely don't forgot. But don't forget. And we stuck with Justice Kavanaugh, because he was the right man. Top of his class at Yale, Yale Law School. Never had a problem until he was attacked by these vicious people that knew what they were doing was wrong. And we did the right thing. If you want to stop the radical Democrat mob from taking control of Congress, then you need to go out today ideally and vote for Dean Heller and Adam Laxalt and others that you like, but you got to get them in. Danny Tarkanian, get Danny in. Danny deserves to be in. Democrats in Congress have already signed up for a socialist takeover of health care that would eliminate the private insurance of 1.6 million people from Nevada. The Democrats want America to become -- it's not even that they want it, but that's what's going to happen -- Venezuela. Venezuela. How does that sound? You like Venezuela? That's a wonderful place. Not doing too well, folks. The Democrat plan would destroy Medicare and terminate Medicare Advantage for almost 200,000 Nevada seniors who depend on it. Democrats plan to kill Medicare Advantage and, really, it's especially unfair to Hispanic Americans. Do we have many Hispanic Americans here? Eh. Not the most. We've done better. Not the most. I'd give it 5 percent. That's ok. But I just left a place, it was 45 percent. But they're happy in every other way, because you know what? Lowest unemployment numbers they've ever had. One out of every two Hispanic seniors is enrolled in Medicare Advantage. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and they've paid for it. They've actually -- you know, they have paid for it. And Republicans will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. And the senator, as much as anybody, the senator is going to do that, he's been doing that. The new platform of the Democrat Party is radical socialism and open borders, which leads to crime, tremendous crime. As we speak, the Democrat Party -- you know, I used to -- everybody used to call it the Democratic Party. That's not the name. And it reads so much nicer. It sounds better.  They ought to actually -- I'll give them a little hint. They should change their name to the Democratic Party. But I call it the Democrat Party, because that's what it is. It's called the Democrat Party. I watch where they're saying the Democratic Party. Usually, in many -- in many cases, those are people that want to make it look as good as possible. But it is, it's the Democrat Party, which doesn't read well. The other reads better. But we're going to call it the Democrat Party. And it's openly inviting millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and overwhelm our nation. The Democrats want caravans. They like the caravans. A lot of people say, I wonder who started that caravan? I want to thank Mexico. Mexico has been so incredible. Thank you, Mexico. And the leaders of Mexico, thank you. And do you know why? Because now Mexico respects the leadership of the United States. They haven't done that. They now respect our leadership. Thank you, Mexico, great. We appreciate it. We do. But what they want is -- and by the way, the wall, the people who scream -- so we started the wall. It's moving along. I want to build it rapidly. I can do it in a year. We did $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion. We have another $1.6 billion -- sounds like a lot of money. When you're going for almost a thousand miles, it's not that much. But the wall is moving. I want to do it in one year. I want them to approve the wall. The Democrats don't care about what their extremist immigration agenda will do to your communities, to your hospitals, what about your hospitals? And to your schools. The Democrats don't care that a flood of illegal immigration will bankrupt our country. You saw the site. Did anybody see that bridge over the weekend? Did you see the bridge yesterday, today? I mean, is that an incredible situation? It's sad. And it's sad -- honestly, it's sad from both sides. It's sad from their side, also. We're going to figure it out. I'll be honest with you, I have already figured it out. You're going to be happy. We're going to make a lot of people happy. We're going to make a lot of people happy. I think I'll keep it a little bit low key until the election. I like where we stand in the election. You know, I think that blue wave is being rapidly shattered. You know, all the Democrats want is power, and they got this blue wave deal going. Not looking like a blue wave. I think Dean Heller is going to win here. I think Martha McSally, she was great last night. She's going to win. She's going to win. I think -- I just visited the great state of big sky. You know what big sky is? Just left. And I'll tell you that, they're going to win. They're going to win in Montana. We're going to win all over. I think we're going to win in Indiana. I think we're going to win Josh. I think we're going to win in Missouri. I think Rick Scott is going to win in the great state of Florida. You're going to have a great governor in Florida. You know who our governor is, right? He's going to be, right? You know who I'm talking about. He's going to be fantastic in Florida. We have a lot of -- big Ron. We call him Ron. Harvard, Yale, smart. Ron DeSantis, he's going to be a great governor of Florida, just like Adam, Adam Laxalt is going to be a great governor for you. You need it. You need it. And, you know, you really do. You need people that can work with Washington, because you take a lot out of Washington. And you need people that we look forward to working with, not people that we have no respect for. This is why Democrats on the border have such bad concepts, catch and release. Do you know what that is? They catch, they get them, and then they say, oh, goodbye, release them. And do you know what happens to that person? He gets released into our country, into our society. That's why Democrats want to give illegal aliens free welfare and free health care. That's why Democrats want to give illegal immigrants the right to vote. I'll tell you, we'll go down fighting for that one. Can you imagine? People -- you know, the vote was always so sacred. Now you see these things where they want the right to vote. They want the right to vote. There's one town in California were they want to take over the -- illegal immigrants want to take over the control of the board that runs the town, all illegal immigrants. And, you know, you would think they're kidding. Seriously, would you even believe this? And they are serious. And I know some people, and they're serious people, they're smart people, where -- what happened to them? What's going on? And that's why Democrats, they want to abolish ICE. Think about that one. So ICE, these are great patriots, great people, great law enforcement. They're tough. They have to be tough. You see what they're dealing with? I'm not going to send you or you -- I'm not going to send you -- they have to be -- yeah, I'll send you. I might send you. I might send her.  They saw you. I won't tell you what they're thinking if they saw you.  I think if they saw you, they'd be happy, very, very happy. But these are people that are tough people we're dealing with. These aren't -- I got criticized for using the word babies. One of the newscasts said, he used the word babies. I was trying to figure, is that politically incorrect? I said these aren't babies, right? These are tough people. And all of a sudden, why did he use the term babies? I said don't tell me that's politically incorrect, too. Last night, last night, in Arizona, we had -- you never saw so many people. I said, I want to thank the great men that are here and I want to thank the beautiful women, everyone beautiful, everyone. And I said, ah, I better apologize, because if I don't -- for calling you all beautiful, because if I don't apologize, they will go wild tomorrow. Headlines, Donald Trump called women beautiful. They're all saying, ""Please call me beautiful."" It is a crazy phenomenon that's going on. But you know what, women? You are beautiful. To me, you're beautiful. Every one of you is beautiful. Every one. Tomorrow, headlines, Trump in Nevada was terrible what he said. No, I'm telling you, these people have lost their way. They've gone loco. Headed by the crowd of fake news back there, I will say. I'll tell you, honestly, the single greatest ally that the Democrats have is the fake news media, because without that, these crazy ideas -- I can't believe they'd go anywhere. You know, if I had the media on my side and with what we've accomplished, because nobody has done more than all of us, nobody has done more in the first two years, and we're not even at two years yet. But nobody has done anything close. If they were on my side, instead of always -- everything is -- they'll take a big victory try and make it into a loss. They're very dishonest people. If they were on my side, I think I'd be at 100 percent right now. You know, 100 -- I really believe it. They'd have breaking news, President Trump, his approval rating has just hit 100 percent, 100 percent. Lot of truth. I mean, look at the economy. Look at North Korea. We were going to war with North Korea. It was going to be -- now look at it. It's going to be fine. Going to be fine. Take your time. Going to be fine. No missiles shot. We got our hostages back. Hey, look at Pastor Brunson. Look at Pastor Brunson. We got Pastor Brunson back. We got 20 back since I'm there. And, you know -- I won't go into it. But we got him back the right way. We got him back the right way. Pastor Brunson just came back. It was such a beautiful -- he was with his family, the most beautiful children, great wife, everything. And it was a beautiful thing. We got Pastor Brunson back. He was -- he was taken during the Obama administration years, and they never came close. And I said, yeah, got to have him back. Got to have him back. I'm sorry. We've got to have him back. We got him back. He's home. He's home. Nice man. The casualties in the Democrats' open borders crusade are really a lot. Far more than anybody would know, of innocent American families and lives. Democrat immigration policies allow poisonous drugs and MS-13 killers to pour into our country. These are not people that you don't want to have ICE around. ICE goes into these nests, you know, they're nests, MS-13. I call them a nest. They go into the nest like ho-hum, it's a day in the office. You understand. Because I'm telling you, you guys, even the tough guys here, you don't want to do it. You don't want to do it. She's done it, she said.  If you did it, you didn't do it by choice. Ah, she said, no, I didn't. What's this story all about? I want to find out about this story. Come on up here -- no, I'm kidding. And the Democrats sanctuary cities release -- and this is what happens, they release violent predators out of jail and straight into your communities, and then they're protected. These are protected people. A Democrat victory in November would be a bright, flashing invitation to every human trafficker, drug trafficker -- think of it. But think of it. Human trafficking is the highest it's ever been in the history of this world. Can you -- because of the Internet. You know, you wouldn't think human trafficking, they steal people, they traffic people. And that is a massive business because of the Internet, the computers, wonderful computer age, right? Maybe it was better the other way, right? Maybe. But then you wouldn't have @RealDonaldTrump. That wouldn't be so good, right? But -- but think of it. Human trafficking is worse than it's ever been, OK, worse than it's ever been, and you would think that would be impossible. Who would even think about this? But drug trafficking, drug dealing, illegal aliens all over the planet, and we are stopping it. A Republican victory will send the message that America will enforce our borders and defend our citizens. That's what we want. This is your choice in November. Can you believe it's almost two years? Can you believe that? Remember that beautiful November 8th? Don't get that confused -- don't get that confused with November 6th. I'll just mention it one more time, November 8th, was that a great, great day? That was the greatest political movement in the history of our country, maybe anywhere. And they never questioned me on that. You know they want to. Because, you know, they'd say -- I'd like to give him a Pinocchio, four Pinocchios. They never question me on that. Look, watch. Was that the greatest single political movement in the history of our country? Peter? Peter, yes, Peter Doocy. The great Peter Doocy. There is no doubt who his father is. Look at him. Peter's -- here, was this the greatest political movement in history? Don't answer it  All right, good to have you all. We're having a good time. Democrats believe illegal border crossers should be set free immediately. Republicans believe illegal border crossers have to be brought back home immediately. Democrats believe our country should be a sanctuary for criminal aliens. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans. Democrats believe American taxpayers should provide free welfare to illegals. Republicans believe welfare should be protected for truly needy Americans. If you want to save your country, if you want to protect your family, if you want to defend America's laws, borders, sovereign, and even your dignity, then you have to go out today and vote. You got to go out and vote. Now, if you're thinking about voting Democrat, don't go out today and vote. Don't go. I would say there may be -- for the media -- no Democrats in this audience. Would you say? Is there anybody here that wants to vote Democrat? Seriously? A lot of people. Now, the press never shows how many people, you know? They show, like, my face. And they never leave. And I'll say to my wife, Melania, is she doing a great job as first lady? I will say to my wife, honey, you should have seen the crowd, it was unbelievable. I mean, we had in Missouri 45,000 people that couldn't get into a 10,000-seat arena because it was packed. And I said, did they show the crowd? No. All they do is they keep it right here. They never move it around. I wish you'd move the cameras around. Just move it around. And this is Elko, pretty amazing. Amazing. Pretty amazing. And by the way, Joe Biden is in Las Vegas. Joe. Sleepy Joe Biden. We call him 1 percent Joe because he ran at least twice, I think three times, they say twice, I think he ran three times, and he never had more than 1 percent. So we call him 1 percent Joe. And then, oh, remember what happened? And then Obama came along and took him off of the trash heap and made him vice president. But he never had more than 1 percent, so we call him either sleepy Joe Biden or 1 percent. Which is better? Sleepy Joe? Sleepy Joe. Oh, no, she said creepy Joe. Not creepy. Creepy. She said creepy Joe. I -- no, I would never do that. I would never insult him like that. She said she's only kidding. I would never insult. But listen to this. So we have a lot of people. And we have 6,000, 7,000 people over here that couldn't get in. And here's the thing. Here's the thing. Biden, they just said the count, 193 people showed up. And we love Elko, but in all fairness, it is easier to draw a crowd in Las Vegas. Do we agree? We want to be here, but it is, right? Yeah, he had 193 people. And he was thrilled. That's one of the biggest crowds he's ever had.  This election is also about prosperity. In less than two years, we have created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps. Hispanic American household income has reached an all-time h"
"Hello, Arizona. We love being in Arizona. We've been here all day and all night. It is great to be in the great state of Arizona, with thousands of hard-working and beautiful American patriots. Thank you very much. In just 18 days, the people of Arizona are going to send Martha McSally, a great woman -- I will tell you, I know her well -- she's a great woman -- to the United States Senate to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and continue making America great again. And, remember, early voting in Arizona is underway right now. So if anybody would like to leave and go out and vote, I don't mind at all.  I see all those beautiful red hats and some white ones, right? And some white ones. The white ones are very nice. They're getting swamped by the red. Make America great again, you know that. But what's the new name? Right? What's the new -- go ahead. In about -- what do you think, another 12 months, we could almost do it sooner, right? What does it say? Keep America great. Keep America great. Right? Keep America great. We got to get used to that, because there's something about that make America great again. It's just worked. But keep America great is very important, because it's true, because everything we do they can destroy very quickly if the wrong people get into office. And this is an incredible time for our nation. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. More Americans are working today than at any point in the history of our country. Think of it. It's a big number. That's a big stat. Think of that. Today, more Americans -- think of that -- more Americans are working than ever in the history of our country, today, right now. Nice. Nice. And here in Arizona, manufacturing jobs are surging at the fastest rate in more than two decades. Remember you weren't going to have any manufacturing jobs anymore, right? I said, you mean we're not going to make things anymore? Six hundred thousand new manufacturing jobs. We're taking care of our veterans. And our military. We'll soon be more powerful than it has ever been before. Under Republican leadership, America is booming. America is thriving. And America is winning, because we are finally putting America first. Just last week, we achieved another historic victory for the American people. In a beautiful ceremony at the White House, we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. They treated him badly. They treated him badly. What the radical Democrats did to Justice Kavanaugh and his wonderful family... is a national disgrace. And don't forget it on November 6th. Don't forget it. Don't forget it. The Democrats have become an angry, unhinged mob determined to get power by any means necessary. Your vote in this election will decide which party controls Congress. And I will tell you, they're all talking about Arizona. And they're talking about Martha McSally. They're all talking about Arizona. The choice for every American could not be more clear than it is right now. Democrats produce mobs. Republicans produce jobs.  So this November, when you're voting, vote for the jobs, not for the mobs. Just do it. Just do it. You know, it's all very fragile. It can end very quickly. Even Supreme Court, we picked two, Kavanaugh and Gorsuch. Two. Many presidents never pick any. They never get that great opportunity. They say it's the most important decision you can make. I would say war and peace is the most, but I would say it's second. But it's a great honor to have picked two great people. And you know what? We can pick others before it's over and before even the first term, although we'll have eight years instead of four years, based on everything I see. Based on the competition that we see, you know, we can no longer say Pocahontas, because she has no Indian blood. We can no longer call her Pocahontas. I don't know what I'm going to do. We'll have to come up with another name for her. Elizabeth Warren, a very boring name, we're going to have to come up with another name. I can't use the word Pocahontas anymore.  There's no Indian blood! I always said, I have more Indian blood than she has and I have none. I have none. That is more than true. I don't know. We'll have to come up with another name. If Nancy Pelosi... or cryin' Chuck Schumer and the radical Democrats take control of Congress on November 6th, they will try to plunge our country into a nightmare of gridlock, poverty, and chaos. You know that. It's going to be a mess. Democrats want to raise your taxes, impose socialism on our country, turn us into a Venezuela... Turn us into another Venezuela, take away your health care, destroy your Second Amendment, and Democrats want to throw your borders wide open to deadly drugs and ruthless gangs. Come on in, everybody. Come on in. Come on in, everybody. We are. The wall is under construction. We're building the wall, $1.6 billion, another $1.6 billion, another $1.6 billion. I want to build it all at one time. We can do it in one year. And you see what's happening. Right now, as you know, Mexico is on their southern border. Their southern border. And they're fighting, and they're fighting some bad people in that group. You know, you see the people come up, and you listen to the fake news back there, and you think they're all... You think they're all wonderful people. Right? No, no, you think -- I'm serious. You think they're all wonderful people. You got some bad people in those groups. You got some tough people in those groups. And I'll tell you what, this country doesn't want them. OK? We don't want them. Democrats have become the party of crime. It will be the election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law and order, tax cuts. We forget about tax cuts all the time. And common sense. But we forget about tax cuts. We gave you the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. And I tell friends of mine that are running for office, we've got to stop bringing up tax cuts. It's almost like, eh -- we just did it. And we also got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing, where you have the privilege of paying a fortune for having a second privilege of getting bad health care also for a fortune. No, that's no good. We got rid of the individual mandate. You know another thing we did for -- I like a lot of people in Arizona, small businesses, farmers. You don't have estate tax. No more estate tax. So if you love your children -- which is a question -- you may not like 'em, in which case don't listen to me -- if you don't like 'em, don't leave them the farm. But if you love 'em, you'll love Trump, because you don't have to pay estate tax, OK? That's a big thing. There are so many things, we don't have time to talk about 'em. We've got a lot for you. The -- I love you, too. Thank you. Thank you. I love you, too. The Democrat Party has become too extreme and too dangerous to be trusted with power. If you want to drain the swamp, you must defeat the Democrats. You have to do it. So voting has already begun in Arizona. Many of you already have your ballots, return them today, return them tomorrow. Go ahead. Get them in. Vote early. It's already. But you have to vote on November 6th. And, by the way, the early voting shows that Martha is pretty much ahead. We're way ahead of where we're  Don't get complacent. Remember this. For whatever reason, the party that wins the presidency almost always loses in the midterm. I don't know what that's all about. No, they get complacent. Not here, right? So here's the difference we have. We probably have the greatest economy in the history of our country. That's right, so why would you -- why would we lose? And just don't be complacent, OK? Don't be. And then what happens, you go on -- and what happens often -- so they lose the midterm and then they go on to crush in 2020 in the next presidential. I want to win this and then I'll win that. Tonight we're thrilled to be joined by several really terrific Arizona Republicans, including Representatives Debbie Lesko -- Debbie? Where's Debbie? Where is she? Debbie did a good job. Debbie was very tough. She did a good job. Thank you, Debbie. Great job, Debbie. A man who has been in there and he has been fighting for me day in and day out. He's a winner. He loves this state. He loves this country. I watched him this morning. I heard him. I heard he was on. So I wanted to turn on and I wanted to watch Congressman Andy Biggs, and he did a great job. Andy? Thank you, Andy. Great job. And a man that we all love, and he's solid, and he helped us with health care and he helped with every single aspect of what we're doing, tax cuts, borders, he's tough, he's smart, and you love him. Dave Schweikert. Dave? Thank you, Dave. Great job. We're also honored to be joined by your fantastic governor and friend of mine, Doug Ducey. And don't worry about it, Doug. That's ""Du, Du,"" just that's not -- it is, too. That's pretty impressive when you get -- Doug is fantastic. And get out and vote for Doug, by the way. Get out and vote. He's great. He's doing a great job. He loves this state, loves the country. Finally, it is my great honor to introduce a true American patriot, a person I've gotten to know very well over the last two years. She was always there for us, and she's tough and she's smart and she's brave, and she can fly an aeroplane better than anybody. Your next United States senator from Arizona, Martha McSally. Come up, Martha. All right. You guys are awesome. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much, President Trump. Thank you for coming to Arizona. And I just wanted to let you know, we are not crazy here. Unlike what my opponent says, we are not a meth lab of democracy. Is that ridiculous? Arizona is an amazing state, and I'm really, really glad you're here. I'm so grateful for your support. Look, America is back. And Arizona is back. Thanks to the leadership of President Trump and Doug Ducey and the Republican Senate and the House. We see so much optimism, we have so many job opportunities, we are rebuilding our military and supporting our troops. And we have Justice Brett Kavanaugh on the bench. But there is so much more to do. And there are so high stakes in this election. And we are down to the wire to make sure that we keep and grow the Senate majority. Think about it, the contrast could not be more clear. I said I would vote for Kavanaugh. Sinema says she would vote no. Hey? Hey? On national security, I advocated and we fought and kept the A-10 Warthog. And Sinema -- Sinema advocated to shut down Luke Air Force Base. Boo. We just were visiting at Luke Air Force Base, and you can see what a treasure that is. I was shooting at the Taliban and Sinema says it's OK for an American to join the Taliban. What the hell? Right? And I was wearing a flight suit, and she was wearing a pink tutu. And on economic security, you know I voted for your tax cuts and Sinema voted no. And most importantly for us, on border security, President Trump, it has been an honor to be leading in the House to make sure we build the wall. Build the wall.  Exactly. We have to do it. We got to close these crazy loopholes. And my legislation, working with you, closes these loopholes. We have so much more to do. My opponent and her allies, Chuck Schumer, they are so dangerous on these issues. Sinema voted to protect sanctuary cities. Yeah. And look, this is personal. In the audience tonight is Mary Ann Mendoza, and her son, Bryan -- her son, Bryan, a Mesa sergeant in the Mesa Police Department, was killed by a man who didn't belong being here and should have been gone. And this is personal for Mary Ann. This is personal for us in Arizona. We have to crack down on sanctuary cities, MS-13 gangs, build the wall and secure the border. So there's so much at stake. There's so much at stake. And so I'm grateful for your support. I'm grateful for your vote. God bless you all. God bless Arizona. God bless America. Thank you.  That's fantastic. Martha's a veteran. A great veteran, a great fighter, a war hero. And the first female fighter pilot to fly combat missions in American history. Think of that. She's the first. And I spoke to some of the pilots and fighters just now, we just left. And we had an incredible display of talent. Boeing was there. And Raytheon was there. And they were all there, everybody was there. And the ones that know Martha, they say they should could fly a plane like nobody. I like that. That's good. That's good. They were very impressed. They were very impressed. You deserve a senator who truly loves your state and loves to fight for the state and who will never let you down, and that leader is, indeed, Martha McSally. And Martha's opponent is a far-left extremist named Kyrsten Sinema. And, you know, she is. She's being protected by the fake news back there. Boy, that's a lot -- look at all the people. It's like the Academy Awards -- look at this. That's a lot of stuff. You think this happens to the average president? No way. And every single time, I hope you're enjoying yourselves. You can turn the cameras back on them. I won't say anything bad, I promise. Now, when they think I'm ready to say something bad, all those red lights go off. You know, just -- now, turn them. I'm not going to leave you alone. After 9/11, Martha McSally heroically led air strikes against radical Islamic terrorists. Very successful. But while Martha was bravely fighting the Taliban, Kyrsten Sinema said she had no problems with Americans defecting from our country to join the Taliban. How does that happen? Seriously, how does that happen in Arizona? Explain that one to me. Sinema made these comments even as courageous American servicemembers were giving their lives in the fight against enemy Taliban forces. Kyrsten Sinema also embraced a left-wing radical who was convicted of providing material support to terrorists. This is what you want as your senator? I don't think so. I don't think so. And as you know, and as you heard, Kyrsten Sinema voted strongly against tax cuts. Now, not because she believes that, but because Nancy Pelosi told her to do it. That's all it is. Nancy Pelosi doesn't believe it. And Maxine Waters told her to do it, too. That's true. She doesn't believe that. But they told her to do it. They'll do -- she'll do whatever they tell them. She voted for Obama's amnesty and she voted against a border wall. She wants to let poisonous drugs pour into your communities and that's where they're coming, right through. Sinema voted to support deadly sanctuary cities, and Sinema joined the shameful Democrat mob attacking the great Justice Brett Kavanaugh. He will be great. He will be a great Supreme Court justice. And a vote for Kyrsten Sinema is a wasted vote, but more importantly, it's a dangerous vote, because it's for Schumer, cryin' Chuck, for Pelosi and for Maxine Waters. If you don't want radical Democratic mob to control Congress, vote today, get out and vote before -- you don't have to wait. Vote for Martha McSally. It'll be one of the best votes you've ever cast. It will be -- it will be the second greatest vote you ever cast. The first greatest vote was for me! Me! No, when you cast a vote for me, you cast a vote for you, too. It's us. Because we have -- and they never question me on this -- I say it all the time -- we have the greatest movement in the history of our country. Never happened. It's never happened before. And we're doing great, the greatest president. Thank you. I like him. Look, who said that? Thank you, man. Thank you. We're working hard. We're working hard. Democrats in Congress have already signed up for a socialist takeover of health care that would eliminate the private health insurance of 3.4 million Arizona residents. You know about that. And it's going to destroy our country, and your taxes will be tripled. The Democrat plan would destroy Medicare and terminate Medicare Advantage for over 500,000 Arizona seniors who depend on it. Democrats' plan to kill Medicare Advantage is especially unfair to Hispanic Americans, of which we have a couple in the room, right? A couple. We're doing very well with Hispanic Americans. We're doing very well. Because you know what? They want safety at the border. They want great jobs. Remember, the last election, well, he won't do too well with the Hispanic vote. Did we do well or what? They're still -- they're still -- they're still trying to figure it out. And remember they said, oh, but he won't do well with women. Did we do well with women? We did well with women. They haven't figured it out yet, but they're trying. Are you trying? You continue or do you just want to play this game? Do you want to keep playing this game? One out of every two Hispanic seniors is enrolled in Medicare Advantage, which they're going to destroy. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors, who have earned it and they've paid for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. They're trying to put a false narrative out there. And if there is a Republican out there that doesn't, let me know. I'll -- believe me, him or her, we'll talk them into it. We're going to protect pre-existing conditions. It's -- put it down and bank. Remember during the debates, everyone wanted to re-adjust your Social Security, let's add some years on, listen. Who is the one person that said I'm not touching entitlements? Thank you. Thank you. And remember I said, right, and I haven't, I haven't. There's been a lot of presidents that have made big promises. All of a sudden their career is over, you know, you know a few of them. You've watched it. And it's not a pretty sight when it happens. It's not pretty at all. Not going to happen to me. But I was on stage during all those debates, which we won, by the way, every single one of them. But I was on stage with all those debates, first with some really fine people, the Republicans, and then with a very dishonest person, crooked Hillary Clinton. And during that time, and during...  It is amazing how you can delete 33,000 e-mails after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress and our Justice Department doesn't do anything about it. It is pretty amazing. Our Justice Department. Headed by many people from the Obama administration. Can't win them all, but it'll work out, folks. It'll all work out. Just like you look at what we've done. You look at every department, you look at what's going on, secretary of state, you look at EPA, you look at everyone. We are doing so well. We are really hitting. The new platform of the Democrat Party is radical socialism and open borders. As we speak, the Democrat Party is openly inviting millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and overwhelm our nation. Other than that, the Democrats are doing a great job, right? Not too good. You know what? They're lousy politicians. They have horrible policy. They do one thing well. They stick together. They really do. They stick together, better than the Republicans. The one thing they do -- and they stick -- they don't want us to have the victory of a wall, even though we got much more money for our military. Many, many times more. We got money. But they don't want us to have the wall. Even though they know it's the right thing. They will fight to the death because they don't want us to have the wall. But we've started the wall anyway, and we're going to get that done. We're going to get it done. And now it's as a point -- when you look, it's really at a point when you look at what's pouring over in these caravans, when they start saying we don't want to change those immigration laws that are so bad, catch-and-release, we don't want to change visa lottery... Think of visa lottery. They pick names out of a hat, visa lottery. Think about it. Do you think that this country, whichever country it is, are they going to put you -- are they going to put their finest in there? I don't think so. I don't think so. Chain migration, you come over, and then they have -- we had a guy on the West Side Highway. He goes down the highway, he's going 60, 70 miles an hour, radical Islam, terrible. Makes a right turn into a park, kills nine people, badly injures -- nobody ever talks about. People that are running along the beautiful Hudson River, because they want to stay in shape. They end up going home six months later with no legs, with no arms. Because of people like this, sick people. These are sick people. And these allowed -- this guy had 22 people. He brought in his mother, his father, his brother, his sisters, his aunts, his uncles. Because of Democrats' policy. That's called chain migration. It's a chain. Sounds so good. Like right out of -- like right of school. Sounds so beautiful. The chain, everyone comes together. Nope. We're ending it, folks. And the Democrats don't want to do it, but we're ending it, folks. And catch-and-release. How about that? That's my favorite. Catch. You catch a damned killer, you catch a bad hombre. You catch a bad one. You take the name. And we're supposed to bring them to court, but we have hundreds of thousands of people. And it's all my fault. You know why? Because we, I, you, all together, we've made this country so strong economically so good, jobs, everything, that everybody wants to come in, so it's my fault. But you know what? We're not letting them in. We only are going to let people in based on merit. We need people to come in based on merit. So you have catch-and-release. They put one foot. They don't need two. One foot! We have the greatest people, ICE, Border Patrol, law enforcement. And the law doesn't allow us to throw them the hell out. We have to take 'em. We have to write them up, and then we say come back in three years for a court case. In the meantime, they're released into our society. And you know what the percentage of people that come back for the case? Three percent. No, you're wrong. He said zero. You were slightly off. Three percent. Three percent show up three years, four years, five years later. It's a disgrace. And the Democrats do it. And we don't have enough votes. We don't have enough Republicans to override their negative vote, because they do stick together. And remember this: They're only sticking together because they want to make sure that I and we don't get what they know our country needs. But I think they may be forced politically to do it, because I got to tell you, anybody that votes for a Democrat now is crazy. When you look at what's coming up, crazy. Got to be crazy. The Democrats don't care about what their extremist immigration agenda will do to your communities, your hospitals. How about your hospitals? They're being overrun. Your schools! California, they want to give you free education, free health care, open borders. I mean, we're going to have 10 million people move to California. This is the craziest thing. So here's what we do. Let's get these people out of there. There's something wrong. They're cuckoo. The Democrats don't care that a flood of illegal immigration is going to totally bankrupt our country. Because all the Democrats want is power. And don't forget: Everybody that comes across the border, for the most part, they're going to vote Democrat. They're not voting Republican. They're going to vote Democrat. So nobody said they're stupid. But it's bad for our country. But they're going to vote Democrat. No matter what we do, they will be voting Democrat. And they understand that. That's why Democrats support programs like catch-and-release. That's why Democrats want to give illegal aliens free welfare, free health care, and free education. Give them a driver's license. Give them a driver's license. Next thing you know, they want to buy them a car. Then they'll say the car's not good enough, we want -- how about a Rolls-Royce? Give them -- we want a Rolls-Royce. Made not in America, so therefore, I hope that's not what we do. That's why Democrats want to give illegal immigrants the right to vote. How about in California, where illegal immigrants took over the town council, and now the town council is run by illegal immigrants in the town! I mean, is this even believable? You tell this stuff. It is sick! That's why Democrats want to abolish ICE, the most brave people. These people -- I wouldn't want their job. Nobody up here wants their job. I can tell by looking. They go into the toughest situations. We call them nests. Nests of very bad people. They don't like using guns. They'd much rather use knives, because it's much more painful and slower. These are really bad people. And ICE goes in there. And it's like a day at the office. No problem. And they free towns, like in Long Island. They liberate towns. It's like liberation from a war. They liberate towns. And the Democrats think that ICE isn't nice. We have to get rid of ICE. We cherish ICE. And we cherish Border Patrol. And we cherish our law enforcement. The casualties in the Democrats' open borders crusade are innocent American families and lives. And we have some of these incredible people with us tonight. Democrat immigration policies allow poisonous drugs, vicious gang members, and MS-13 killers to pour into our country, and we've done a great job. We have removed thousands of MS-13 -- get them the hell out. Thousands! Thousands and thousands. And Democrat sanctuary cities release dangerous predators out of a jail and straight into your communities. This is not what you want. I know the people of Arizona, you don't want -- you don't want it. A Democrat victory in November would be a bright flashing invitation to every trafficker, smuggler, drug dealer, and illegal alien on the planet, come on in. Come on in, folks. A Republican victory would send the message that America will enforce our borders and defend our citizens. It's important. This is your choice in November. This is your real choice. I don't think personally -- I don't think you have a choice, but what am I? How can I say that? You're supposed to vote. I don't think you have a choice, OK? I know the people in this room too well. Democrats believe illegal border crossers should be immediately set free. Republicans believe illegal border crossers should be immediately sent home or, if they're criminals, put in jail. Democrats believe our country should be a giant sanctuary city for criminal aliens. They want it to be a big, fat, beautiful sanctuary city. The whole country for criminal aliens. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary city for law-abiding Americans. Democrats believe American taxpayers should provide free welfare to illegals. That's wonderful. How about California? They owe two million, trillion dollars! They owe more money than any place has ever even dreamt of. And now they have a man running for governor who wants to actually let the entire world pour into a state, give them free welfare, free education, free licenses, free everything. And they have no money. And they have no money. And they owe a fortune. Other than that, it's a great idea. Republicans believe welfare should be protected for truly needy Americans that need it. If you want to save your country, if you want to protect your family, if you want to defend American laws, the borders, the sovereignty, the dignity, then you must vote for Martha and vote for Republican on November 6th or before. This election is also about prosperity. In less than two years, we have created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps. Think of that. Hispanic American household income is at an all-time high. Who is a Hispanic American in this room? Ten percent? It's all right. Do you like Trump? It's always dangerous. Always dangerous.  Thank you. Thank you, guys.  Hispanic American poverty has reached an all-time historic low. Hispanic American unemployment has reached its lowest rate ever recorded in history. African American and Asian American unemployment have reached their lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our country. And women's unemployment at 3.6 percent is the lowest it's been in 65 years. Every day we are living by our motto, promises made, promises kept. And some of the fake news -- and they know, they say that I made promises and I actually kept more promises than I made. I think we've done more than we've even said. And we're not finished. We're not finished yet. We're not finished. Two weeks ago, I announced that we are replacing the horrible, disgusting, terrible, terrible NAFTA deal with an incredible brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement, the USMCA. All done. Great deal. Got to be approved by Congress, but even the Democrats like it. Can you believe that? Can you believe it? Chuck Schumer actually said really good things about it. Can you believe it? It'll be approved pretty quickly, and that opens up Canada and Mexico to the farmers and to manufacturers. It's a great thing for hopefully all three countries. But this is going to be a great day. NAFTA was a disaster. We've taken the toughest ever action to crack down on China's highly abusive trade practices. And we're winning. We're winning. And Republicans passed the biggest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in American history, including ANWR in Alaska. They couldn't get it passed, the biggest site drilling -- biggest site just about in the world. Just about in the world. And President Reagan really tried, great guy, couldn't get it done. President Bush, all of them. And I got it done. I got it done. Alaska. The people in Alaska like me. Well, my grandfather spent a lot of time in Alaska. He was looking for gold. Wasn't so easy to find, but he was looking. We also passed veterans' choice for our great, great, great people. Giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor. And the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure anyone who mistreats or hurts our veterans in any way is accountable. We look at them, and we say, Jim, sorry to do this, you're fired. Get your ass out of here. Couldn't fire them. You couldn't fire them. We were stuck. We secured $700 billion and then next year $716 billion to fully rebuild our great American military. And our military will very shortly be far stronger, far more powerful, modern, the best in the world, and also it's jobs. Now, when it's come to the military, I don't care about the jobs so much. I want the strong military. But as a secondary benefit, every ounce of it is built in the United States. And we make the best planes and the best ships and the best rockets and missiles. We make the best stuff. So it's a lot of jobs. And we will soon have far and away the strongest military that we've ever had. And hopefully, you know what, it'll be so strong and so powerful that we won't have to use it, OK? If it wasn't powerful, we probably would have to use it. That's the way life works. At my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create a sixth branch of the American armed forces called the Space Force. Very serious. Very serious. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. A disaster. And you remember the day before I came into office, it looked like Iran was just going to take over the Middle East. There was no stopping them. Guess what? They're struggling right now. They're really struggling. They're having riots every weekend. They are struggling right now. They are having a hard time. And we've recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together we have made extraordinary progress. The progress that we've made is I think unparalleled certainly for the first two years. And, you know, we're still quite a bit short. We have a ways to go. January 20th. We have a ways to go. But nobody has done more than we've done in the first two years and not even close. And we're just getting started. If you vote to elect a Republican House and a Republican Senate, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and raise your incomes. We will protect Medicare and Social Security. And Democrats will destroy them both, and you know it. We will continue to confirm judges who interpret our Constitution as written. We will secure the border. We will pass Kate's law. We will end sanctuary cities. Stop catch-and-release, visa lottery, chain migration, out. And we will keep the criminals, drug dealers, and terrorists the hell out of our country. We will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, depen"
"I love these hangars. I love a hangar. There's nothing like a hangar. You get out of the plane, you walk over, and we have massive crowds. We don't have to turn so many away, but there are a lot of people still trying to get. Should we wait or should we start right now? Start? We start. This is a great crowd. Oh, Montana to me is a very big and powerful state, I can tell you that. At least it will be after Matt Rosendale becomes your senator. He's great. But I'm thrilled to be here in Montana with thousands of loyal, hard-working, incredible American patriots... Hard to believe I'm saying this, because it was an incredible time, less than two years ago, but almost two years ago, right? That was some day, that was some evening, that was some period. That was a movement like we've never, ever seen before. And here we are again. It's going to be like -- doesn't seem long, but it flies. You know, when you're having a good time, and when you're doing a good job, time flies, right? Time flies. And in just 19 days, the people of this incredible state are going to send Matt Rosendale to the U.S. Senate to protect your jobs and protect your Second Amendment, which is under siege. This, I would think, is a very big Second Amendment place. I wouldn't want to be the one that walks into your house and says, ""Give me that gun."" Right? Nobody has the courage to do that. But Matt is going to protect your Second Amendment. And he's going to defend your borders, and we're doing a good job on those borders with the worst laws you've ever seen. And we are making America great again together. Really are. This is truly an incredible time for our country. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. Think about it. More Americans are now working than ever before. Here in Montana, household incomes have reached an all-time high. Think of that. Think of that. And we watch Montana. We watch your miners. We watch your loggers, your ranchers, your farmers. We watch Montana. And, you know, two years ago, you watched over me, because we won this state by a lot. Right? That was one of those quickies. I love those states. You know, the polls close. Polls have just closed in the state of Montana. Trump has won Montana. You know, it's like... They say it, because when it's that big, they announce it within seconds. We like the -- we like the -- it's just a flowing. They do comma. They don't do -- they do a comma. Trump has won Montana. But you've been great to me. We're also taking care of your veterans. You have a lot of veterans in Montana. And our military -- you know, we've rebuilt and are rebuilding our military. We'll soon be more powerful than ever before. And hopefully we won't have to use it. But there's something about having it. All of a sudden, they say, OK, let's forget about that. That's the way life works, isn't it? We're going to have the most powerful military by far that we've ever had. And a lot of it's already coming, those brand-new, beautiful planes, those incredible stealth F-35s, the -- you have the F-35, you have the F-18s, the Super Dupers, the Hornets. We have them all. We've got them coming left and right, and you know the great thing? There's nothing more important than the military, but we build them all right here in the USA. We don't send them to other countries to be built. We build them right here. We have the best military equipment in the world. We build the best. There's nothing even close. Best missiles, best planes, best ships, best everything. We build them here, and there's nothing like best submarines. Submarines, we're so far ahead of everybody, forget it. Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning, because we are finally putting America first again. It's America first. You know that. We're putting America first. You haven't heard that for a long time, for many, many decades, you haven't heard. Just last week, we achieved another historic victory for the American people. In a beautiful ceremony at the White House, we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And those Democrats treated him badly. Very unfair. That was an unfair deal. From the second the Supreme Court vacancy opened, Democrats were on a heartless campaign of political and personal destruction. It was disgraceful. Before he was even chosen, before I even knew who I was going to pick, they were saying horrible things about my candidate. I said, I haven't picked anyone yet. They're great people. That was terrible. What they did was terrible. And what they did to Brett Kavanaugh and his beautiful family is a national disgrace that will not be soon forgotten. Remember that. And come Election Day, Americans will remember Kavanaugh and they will remember all sorts of other things, because that was a shameful act. And there are many other shameful acts, including what they're doing to our border by saying we're not going to give you the laws that you need to protect our country. But we're taking it, and we're doing it, and we have great things happening. This will be an election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law and order, and common sense. That's what it's going to be. It's going to be an election of those things, law and order, Kavanaugh, you remember commonsense, and remember it's going to be an election of the caravan. You know what I'm talking about. You know what I'm talking about. And now we're starting to find out -- and I won't say it 100 percent -- I'll put a little tiny question mark at the end -- but we're probably not going to need it, but we have the fake news back there. Fake news. But a lot of money has been passing to people to come up and try and get to the border by Election Day, because they think that's a negative for us. Number one, they're being stopped. And number two, regardless, that's our issue. So this is the problem with them. They have one thing. They stick together. They vote together. They're bad politicians. They have horrible policy. They hate ICE. They don't like our military. They don't like our vets. They're always fighting us on that. They have lousy policy. The one thing, they stick together, but they wanted that caravan and there are those that say that caravan didn't just happen. It didn't just happen. A lot of reasons that caravan, 4,000 people. But I just want to thank the Mexican government, because they're stopping it hopefully before it ever gets to Mexico. As you know, I am willing to send the military to defend our southern border, if necessary. All because of the illegal immigration onslaught brought by the Democrats, because they refuse to acknowledge or to change the laws. They like it. They also figure everybody coming in is going to vote Democrat. You know. Hey, they're not so stupid, when you think about it, right? But they are crazy. And the crazy Democrats refuse to support any form of border security legislation to fix our absolutely horrible, old-fashioned, loophole-ridden immigration laws. We have the worst laws anywhere in the world. We have the dumbest laws anywhere in the world. Somebody comes in and we say, excuse me, a foot hits the ground. You know, if a foot hits the ground, we're not allowed to say, hey, go back. Every other country in the world, they say go back. Can't come in. Sorry. A foot hits the ground, we have to by law, with these horrible people that are making their own rulings, having nothing to do with our Constitution, we have to take those people in, even if they're, criminals and we have hardened criminals coming in. You think those people are perfect? They're not perfect. You have some hardened, bad people coming in. And by law we have to take their name, and then we have to release. It's called catch and release. You ever hear of this one? You catch them, you find out about them. Even if you find out bad things, you catch them and you release them. And then you say, come back for a court case. There's only a problem. There's not enough judges in the world to take care of it. And I will say, I have caused the problem. I'm taking full blame. You know why? Everyone's like in shock. It's my -- hey, look, fake news, it's my problem. I caused it. Because I have created such an incredible economy, I have created so many jobs. I have made this country with you so great that everybody wants to come in. So they're all pouring in, or trying to. So with the worst laws in the world, we're doing a hell of a job. But we've made our country strong. We've made our country respected and people want to come in. Most importantly, what we have to do, we need votes, meaning we need Republicans to vote. You know, you keep hearing we have a majority. We have a majority that if somebody has a cold, if somebody's not feeling well, we lose our majority. That's how it is. It's not -- we have like almost -- like identical. We have to have more votes so we can put in strong, conservative Republican, but commonsense. It's not even Republican -- it's commonsense policies. Commonsense. That's why we have a lot of Democrats that support us, frankly, we have a lot of the Democrats that aren't crazy. They have intelligence. Because the Democrat Party has gone so far left that nobody knows what to do. It's become radical resistance. You ever see their signs? Resist. They say, what are you going to resist? I don't know. Do you ever see when the fake news interviews them? And then they try and cut it, but they -- they'll go to a person holding a sign who gets paid by Soros or somebody, right? That's what happens. Well, did you see with -- with now Justice Kavanaugh, did you see -- and, by the way, also, with Justice Neil Gorsuch. How good is he? That's a great two people. But did you see the signs? They're brand-new. They're beautiful, the black-and-white signs. Everybody has the same size, right from the finest printer in Washington. Do you think the people -- those are not signs made in the basement. They were all identical. And I pointed that out, and the next day everybody had signs that looked like they were made in the basement.  I didn't see any of the black and white ones. It's a whole -- hey, look, there's a lot of rigged things going on in this country, you know about that. There are a lot of rigged things going on. Just ask Bernie Sanders. You think things are rigged, Bernie? Do you think things are rigged, Bernie? You could ask me, too. I could tell you about rigging, I'll tell you what. But we fight like nobody ever fought before. You know, we do -- we fight, and we fight, and we win, and we fight harder than anybody ever fought. And then they say, oh, it's obstruction. It's -- if you fight back today, it's called obstruction. No, no, no. We fight back. Call it whatever the hell you want. We fight back. Obstruction. You know, I just walked in, and a big, strong guy grabbed me. And he was almost crying. It happens every time. And many times. And he said, sir, Mr. President, thank you so much for saving our country. And, you know, now I've -- I hear it all the time, those exact words. Thank you for saving our country. And at first I had to think about it, months ago. I really had to think about it. You see what we did with taxes. Forget taxes, with so many things, more important than taxes, although those big tax cuts, they did come in handy, didn't they? Everybody benefited from that. But regulations -- so many things, you add it all up, and they say thank you very much, Mr. President, for saving our country. Well, the truth is, we have all together -- because this has been a movement like we've never seen before in this country, like probably almost every country they've never seen a movement like what happened with us in 2016. And we all together -- not me. I'm a spokesperson. By the way, how have I done? Have I done OK? I was speaking to a big politician the other day. It was sort of funny. And he was great. He's a great guy. But he was trying to make a point. He wanted me to do something a certain way. He said, sir, I have won five elections. I've run eight times. So I've won, sir, five -- I know what I'm doing. I'm a professional. I've been doing this for a long time. So think of it. He's -- he runs eight times. Sir, I won five elections. I said, well, you got me there. I ran once, and I won one election, but it's the presidency, right? That's right. The presidency. It's the presidency. That's -- think of it. We're one for one. We're going to soon be two for two, and that's going to be it. Although a lot of the fake news said that he's not going to stop at eight years. He's going longer. We'll never take it away from him. This is, like, the group of people -- first they say he doesn't know what he's doing. Perhaps he's incompetent. He doesn't know what he's doing. It's terrible, et cetera. Then, two minutes later, they say he's going -- for eight years, he's going to take it for long -- you can't have both. You can only go one way or the other. You can't do both. No, eight years is going to be fine, right? Eight years, it's going to be fine. It's all the time we need. That's all the time we need to make America great again. Make America great again. Is that -- is that maybe the greatest slogan in the history of runs? You remember Hillary's slogan? It was the worst slogan. She paid like a million dollars for some guy to make the slogan. And after I dissected it at one speech, they changed it the next day.  Come together or some -- something terrible. Come together. Oh, she's a great unifier. Right. Great unifier. Crooked Hillary is a great unifier.  It is incredible the deep state where they don't even look at her. Isn't it incredible? Think of it, 33,000 e-mails, she gets a subpoena from the United States Congress. Forget about all the other things, forget about -- and you can never forget about Benghazi, ever. But forget about everything else. Never forget Benghazi. But forget about all the other things. Thirty-three thousand e-mails, she gets a subpoena, not like a subpoena from you or you or that young person right back there. A subpoena from the United States Congress. She gets it. Then she deletes 33,000 e-mails. And she acid-washes -- she acid-washes -- this way, it's a very expensive process, never used, it's never used, because it costs so much. It's called acid-washing. It's called bleach -- it's called five different names. But I like acid-washing, because that really says it. She acid-washes 33,000, so that nobody can ever find -- but they're around someplace. I think that maybe -- maybe they're at the State Department. The State Department -- we have a great man now at the State Department, Mike Pompeo. But maybe they're at the State Department. They could very well be at the Department of Justice, if you can believe that whole deal. But we're just being quiet. We're being quiet. Do you know why? There's been no collusion. Can you imagine -- think of this -- I was on the plane before, I told somebody -- let's say we're losing the state of Montana. That will never happen. And I get an urgent call from my people in Montana. And I'm in New York or I'm in Washington. And they say sir, sir, we're losing the state of Montana. Is there anything you can do? Can you imagine me saying, oh, I don't know what to do, gee, let's call the Russians, maybe they could help? Can you believe -- no, can you believe the stupidity of this? Let's call the Russians?  If I ever called the Russians, the first one to know about it would be the state of Montana, and they wouldn't be too happy. Can you imagine? Let's call the Russians? It's a disgrace. It was an excuse made by the Democrats for losing an election that, frankly, they should win, because the Electoral College -- remember, I couldn't get 270. There was no way to 270, you need 270. There was no -- I went to -- that's exactly right, 306. I went -- that's right, you heard. How many times you hear -- there is no way? So I went to Maine, I love Maine, by the way, one vote. Got one. One. So I went to Maine four or five times. I love the people of Maine. And I ended up winning that one, but I didn't need it, because we won Michigan and Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and a lot of states. And a lot of states. No, I'll tell you what, it was an exciting -- it was an exciting time. And next time, Democrats are going to learn where they have to run. You got to run in the right places. These were not great competitors, but they were fun. Actually, they were more effective, in my opinion, after the election than before the election. Does that make any sense? You know, that to me makes a lot of sense. Wiseguys. The Democrats have turned -- I love you, too. Who said that? Who said that? Who said that? It's finally a woman. You know, I get it from the men all the time.  And so far, every guy that said I love you, they're just not my type.  I finally heard it from a woman. Thank you. Thank you. And look at all the women for Trump signs. Here we go again. It's the same thing. Everyone says, but will he get the women? There are -- you know, these fakes on television, the pundits, you know, real geniuses, they'd really done well in predicting me. He's never going to run. He has too good a life. He's just doing it for fun. He'll never run, but he's having a good time. I said, that's a good time? So I ran. Then September, one by one, we knock them off, knock them off, knock them off, remember? Eighteen people, 17 opponents, very talented opponents, in many cases, not in all cases. But in many cases. I remember Charles Krauthammer. And he was talking... Go ahead. Well, he treated you better than he treated me. That's OK. But he was talking about the field. I hadn't entered. And he said, why would he do this? This is the single greatest field of Republicans ever assembled for an election. And I looked at my wife -- by the way, how good is our first lady? Good? Is she doing great? People love our first lady. Look at all the signs. We love our first lady. We love our first lady. Just came back from Africa. Just came back from Africa. And she got great -- people thought it -- she -- they love her. They -- she went into areas that -- it was such sad because such poverty. She went in with her arms wide open. And the New York Times and some others, all they could talk about -- she wore a certain that. And they said it represented a colonialization. And everybody was trying to figure -- and I think it came out of Los Angeles. I think they actually bought it at Los Angeles, which is such a -- but they love the job she's doing. And yesterday they had a problem, right? You saw that. Fire on the plane. And I get a call. Sir, your wife is up in the air. There's a fire on the plane. I said, don't tell me that. Don't tell me. And they came down quickly. Great, great people, great pilots, great pilots. And she was cool. She was cool. I did have to -- once I found out everything, I asked, how was she? Was she scared? No, sir. What was she like? She was so cool, we couldn't believe it. Everybody else had cloth on their face, and I probably would have, also, cloth that was water, right, wet, on their face. She sat there, hey, what else is new? That's the way she is. She's a great first lady. She's doing an incredible job. And you think it's easy for her to be a first lady, not so easy. She's done an incredible job. But Charles Krauthammer -- so he said -- oh, he said there's never been a field like this. And I actually went to my wife, I said, you know, a very smart man just said there's never been a field so talented as this. But one by one -- and they are -- and now a lot of them are friends of mine, almost all of them are friends of mine. You know, you go through wars together and then -- if you're smart, and if they're smart, you get along. I have great relationships. Ted Cruz has become a friend of mine. He's doing great in Texas. Marco Rubio, Chris Christie, Mike Huckabee, he was in there at the beginning. Remember he got up and he said I don't know what you guys are wasting your time for. Nobody is going to beat Trump. Why are you doing this? You can't beat him. In fact, do you remember, he said, in fact, I just went out and bought a Trump and I'm dropping out after this debate, but none of you guys are going to beat Trump. That was Mike Huckabee. That was pretty cool. That was pretty cool. It was very good for my ego. In fact that might have been my worst debate because I was so impressed with what he said, I didn't think about anything. No, Mike is great. We have -- we had such great people. We had such great people. And a lot of talented people. And the end result is this is where we are. And we're doing a lot of good. The Democrats have truly turned into an angry mob, bent on destroying anything or anyone in their path. And your senator is one of them. Let me tell you, your senator is disgraceful what he did. This election you will decide which party is in control of Congress. That's true. And if they win, even if they win the House, it's going to be just fighting, fighting, fighting. It's going to be -- we'll be -- you love my hair? Thank you.  She knows what to say. She knows how to make me happy. ""I love your hair.""  Well, the one thing that has been really great about this whole endeavor, they used to say, he wears a hairpiece, he wears a hair -- they don't say that anymore. These people have seen me under every condition known to man. I haven't heard that one in over a year. You know, when you're walking around and the wind is going crazy and you're inspecting, like I did the other day, the incredible hurricane, the horrible Hurricane Michael that devastated Florida and Georgia and Alabama got hit hard. And then a couple of weeks before, and Michael got a piece of them, too. But a couple of weeks before, I went to North Carolina, South Carolina. You look at what happened in a little piece of Virginia. And you walk around in those conditions, you can't fake it. You can't fake it. So that's one good thing. Nobody ever says that anymore. That's one of the -- might be one of the best things that's happened to me in a long time.  Because my whole life, they said, is it or isn't it? Barbara Walters interviewed me. Do you mind if I play with your hair? Do you remember that? And then numerous people have done that. But that's OK. But the choice could not be more clear. Democrats produce mobs. Republicans produce jobs. It's true. It's true. By the way, this is the most beautiful sky. Well, it's big sky. I guess there's a reason for everything, right? No, it's just -- I got out and I'm looking -- I've been here many times -- but I got out and I'm looking -- I say, that really is big sky. That's beautiful. It's not only big, it's really beautiful sky. Someday one of you will explain exactly why, but that is a beautiful, beautiful, big sky. But Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer, and the radical Democrats, they want to raise your taxes, they want to impose socialism on our incredible nation, make it Venezuela, because that's what's going to happen... They want to take away your health care, because you won't be able to have it. Our country won't be able to afford it. Destroy your Second Amendment and throw open your borders to deadly drugs and vicious gangs, because plenty of them are coming across, and a lot of drugs. Democrats have become the party of crime. It's true. Who would believe you could say that and nobody even challenges it? Nobody -- you -- who would believe -- I said -- started a couple of months ago. I said, you know, they've really become the party of crime. I said, I'm going to put that in. I'm going to say that when I make speeches. Nobody's ever challenged it. Maybe they have. Who knows? I have to always say that, because then they'll say they did actually challenge it, and they'll put like -- then they'll say he gets a Pinocchio. So maybe they did challenge it, but not very much. It's become really -- they have become the party of crime because of what they do. They would rather devastate American communities than defend America's borders. The Democrat Party has become too extreme to be trusted with power. Their radical policies are a danger to your family and to your country. If you want to drain the swamp, you must defeat the Democrats and you must defeat Senator Jon Tester. I mean, he's a super liberal. How do you -- I know you people. I won by a fortune of votes, right, like many, many, many votes. And I know you. You know me. I know you. How the hell did you ever elect that guy? How did you pull that off? So we're thrilled to be joined tonight by somebody who's been working with me and an incredible guy, a great human being, and a very talented senator, but somebody that loves you and he loves the country, Senator Steve Daines. Steve? Where is he? He is a great guy. Tell you what, he is -- you know the strong, silent type? They're the ones I like the best. I want to be that way someday.  No, Steve Daines has been -- he's been a great representative. He loves this state. I also want you to go and vote for an incredible Montana leader, somebody that's gone to Congress, and in a short period of time, one of the most respected people in Congress, Greg Gianforte. Hey, Greg, come up. Come up, Greg. Let me just say, on behalf of all of Montana, Mr. President, thank you for giving us hope again. He's so smart. You know, we've had people -- you're on live television all over the place, and we've had people get up, speak for 20, 25 minutes. And these guys are going crazy, that's not the deal. But Greg is smart. And by the way, never wrestle him. You understand that? Never.  Any guy that can do a body slam, he's my kind of... He was my guy. I shouldn't say this, because -- there's nothing to be embarrassed about. So I was in Rome with a lot of the leaders from other countries talking about all sorts of things, and I heard about it. And we endorsed Greg very early, but I had heard that he body-slammed a reporter. And he was way up. And he was way up. And I said, oh, this was like the day of the election, or just before, and I said, oh, this is terrible, he's going to lose the election. Then I said, well, wait a minute, I know Montana pretty well. I think it might help him. And it did! No, he's a great guy. Tough cookie. Greg's opponent, Kathleen Williams... is a radical far-left Democrat. She's going to be voting with Nancy Pelosi and Maxine Waters, the great Maxine Waters. That's another beauty, isn't it? Williams wants to massively raise your taxes, and she supports Pelosi's cap-and-trade tax, which is a disaster, and it would kill the Montana coal industry that we all rebuilt together in a very short period of time. Any miners in the audience, please? How are you guys? Happy, right? Better believe it. It's coming back. Clean coal. I say beautiful, clean coal. And we have more of it than anybody. And Kathleen Williams supports open borders. She opposes the wall, which we've started and we've done a lot of work on it, but I'd like to get it done quickly. Give us the money and we'll do it fast, but we've started it. We got $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.6 billion. And I want to get it finished. We need it now. And, by the way, if this scene -- if this scene of people pouring up -- if that doesn't make people want to build -- you know, in 2006, all these people -- just about all them -- they wanted a wall. They know it's the right thing. They just don't want to give us the victory. It's not like Schumer says, oh, gee, you have it -- Israel has a wall. Bibi Netanyahu -- think of it. He said it worked 99.9 percent, their wall. They have a big wall. It's in the form of a very tough fence. But they have a wall. And Schumer knows this. And Nancy Pelosi knows this. But they just don't want to give us the victory. I know for a fact, they said, you know what, we can't let them have the wall because that would be another campaign promise fulfilled. But I've done so many campaign -- I'm so far ahead. But -- but we've started the wall. And it's moving. And we're going to get it, but get me some Republican votes, please. Williams voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities and she voted in favor of giving public benefits to illegal aliens. Oh, that's a beauty. Do the people of Montana like the idea of giving public benefits to illegals? I don't think so. I don't think so. I know you very well. My son is here all the time, Don. He's a big fan. He's a hunter. He's a hunter. Big fan of Greg's. Big fan of Greg's. He's a good hunter, that one. You people can't believe it. He grew up in a certain nice location in New York, like Fifth Avenue. He knows more about hunting and guns and rifles than maybe anybody here. That's the crazy thing. That's what he loves. A few people over there say I disagree with that, but he does know it. Greg will tell you that. But everybody has to go out and vote for Greg. And finally, it is my great honor to introduce the next United States senator from Montana, Matt Rosendale. Come on up, Matt. Come on up. Great guy. Big success. Highly respected.  Good evening, Montana. President Trump is making history again here in Montana, by golly. This is his third trip to Montana, and that does set a record. This is one for the history books again. I want to take a moment to thank our veterans and all of our military for their great service to our great nation. You kept your promises, and I will work tirelessly every day to make good on the promises that our nation made to you. Mr. President, thank you for your support and for keeping your promises to the people of Montana. You are making America great again. And if we want to keep America great, then we need everyone here to get out and vote. President Trump and all of his policies are on the line. So let's make history and retire Jon Tester and send President Trump the help he needs. Let's remember, it was Jon Tester who cast the deciding vote on Obamacare and got your premiums skyrocketing. I will never give up on repealing and replacing Obamacare. We must have health care that we can actually afford. And I will make sure to always protect those with pre-existing conditions. Remember, when Jon Tester talks about supporting the Second Amendment, understand that he voted for liberal judges who will take your guns away. I'm endorsed by the NRA with an A rating. And all Jon Tester could muster up was a D. That record speaks for itself. Jon Tester does not stand with us on border security. He supports amnesty, catch and release, and sanctuary cities. Well, I'm running to help our president secure the border, deport the criminals and sanctuary cities, and build that wall. I like the wall.  We're going to build it. President Trump deserves a senator from Montana that will support his Supreme Court nominees, not oppose them 100 percent of the time like Jon Tester has done. No thanks to Jon Tester, we now have two good men and two great judges on the Supreme Court: Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. Folks, Jon Tester has been too wrong for too long. We can't let Jon Tester and the radical, liberal resistance win this November. If they win, they'll go after President Trump and his agenda. We can't let that happen. We need everyone in this hangar and across the state to get up and do their part to win the race. Ballots have dropped. I encourage everyone to please cast your vote and to turn them in as soon as possible. Tell your friends, your family, and your neighbors to get out and vote. I pledge to always put Montana first. And I will stand in strong support of President Trump, because the work that he's doing really is making America great again. Thank you, Montana. Thank you, President Trump. May God bless each and every one of you and these great United States of America. Thank you.  Thank you, Matt. And I have to say: A vote for Tester is a vote that really is going to count. It's going to count for you. He's replacing far-left with common sense. And we really have to get out. We are looking to have some success, where right now it's so impossible. We have to get Schumer and Pelosi, we have to move them around, we have to get them out. Our new star, Maxine, we have to get them out. There's a lot of bad things happening. I don't know, you know, you see what they do, you see what they think, and you almost say, like, can it really be possible? Can somebody not care about our military? Can somebody not care about so ma"
"That's right, USA. And hello, Kentucky. Thank you. And I'm thrilled to be back in the heartland with thousands of loyal, hard-working American patriots. In just 24 days, the people of Kentucky -- we love Kentucky -- greatest horses in the world and plenty of other things -- are going to elect an incredible slate of Republican candidates to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and continue making America great again. Just hours ago, we celebrated another tremendous victory for the American people. You know what I'm talking about. We're having a lot of victories, folks. Can you handle it? In the Oval Office of the White House, I welcomed home Pastor Andrew Brunson, great man, from Turkey. He is now free from jail. Think of that, 35-year jail sentence, 35 years. Not anymore. He's back with his family, together with his wife, and he is on American soil. And it's a beautiful family. They're all together. And I want to thank President Erdogan of Turkey. He was -- he was terrific. We all worked together. It wasn't easy. It wasn't easy. That one wasn't easy. And we don't pay ransom. We don't pay ransom. But I do -- I want to thank the president. I want to thank the people of Turkey. And I think we'll probably now really establish a terrific relationship with Turkey. We appreciate it. This evening, in the wake of Hurricane Michael, our thoughts are with our fellow citizens in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia. They got hit hard. They got hit hard, especially when you look at -- when you look at Florida, did you ever see anything like that? And you look at Georgia, Georgia got hit hard. That was some wind force. Up to 200 miles -- almost 200 miles an hour, one of the most vicious we've ever been hit with. So I just want to thank all of those incredible people, the people of FEMA, the first responders... law enforcement, and all of the thousands of federal employees and National Guard, all of the personnel, they're now on the ground, they're supporting this really major recovery. I will say, you have thousands of electrical trucks all lined up, they're following in, they're getting the roads cleared, not easy. And they have done some job. You had 600,000 people without electric. In one day, they got it down to 250,000. That's some job, one day. And we will not rest until the job is done. We're here tonight to discuss everything we have accomplished together in less than two years' time. Think of it. Think of it. And I'm here tonight, although I've been back many times, I love this state... to thank the people of Kentucky for 2016. We didn't have to wait too long for that. We didn't have to wait too long for that. Remember, the vote is in, the polls have closed in Kentucky, Donald Trump is the winner of Kentucky. That was fast. That was fast. And to make sure that America's extraordinary comeback, we want to make sure it continues full speed ahead. We don't want Democrats... that are coming from a different place, we don't want them getting in office. All they'll do is abstract. Under Republican leadership, America is booming. It's thriving. America is winning again because we are finally putting America first.  Our country's unemployment rate has just fallen to 3.7 percent, the lowest in over 50 years. Fifty years. Median household income has reached an all-time high. That's pretty good. It means you're making more money than you've ever made before. I don't know how much better, but we're going to get it up higher. We have eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations. And some of you will love this, and I'm proud of it, these are great people, it's a great resource when properly used. We have ended the war on clean, beautiful coal. We're putting our miners back to work like never before. They're going back, back, back. And after years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. And we are doing it with American iron, aluminum, and look at what happened to steel. You see the comeback with steel? Everyone's going back to work. The steel mills are opening up, U.S. Steel, Nucor. They're all opening up their steel mills. That was faster than I thought. And we're stopping the dumping. And if they want to dump, they can but they got to pay a lot. So if you think about it, so true, despite our size, America is now the hottest country anywhere in the world. This is where people want to be. Since my election, we've picked up in worth $11.7 trillion. Think of that. Think of it. And we are going to get along great with China, but we're doing things with China, and they've dropped about $20 trillion. But you know what? They're going to be just fine, but they have to treat us fairly. They have to treat us fairly. Right? That's right. And every day, we are living by our motto, promises made, promises kept.  And you look back there at the fake news media, look at them. Look at them. It's like the Academy Awards every time. You know, I'd like to walk into a place one night and not have any of these guys. Boy. It gets bigger and bigger. But even they have said that President Trump, and you know they probably get fired the next day, that President Trump made promises during the campaign, and I've actually produced more than the promises I made. How often do you hear that? And we all produced it together. We have incredible people. Mitch and Rand, and we all produced it together. We have a great team. But we need more of them. We need more Republican votes. We have a majority that's essentially, Rand, not a majority. If somebody has a cold, we don't have a majority, right? So we have to get some more Republicans in there, and we're here for some good ones tonight. On Monday night at the White House, we kept one of the biggest and most historic promises of all. Do you know what we're talking about, right? Never has a man been treated so badly. America watched as we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. A great, great gentleman. What happened to him was so unfair. I've never seen anything like it. And we stuck with him all the way because we knew the facts. We stuck with him all the way. And Rand Paul and Mitch, they stuck with him. No doubts about it. No doubts. Remember that. Remember that. He now sits alongside Justice Neil Gorsuch to defend your sacred rights and your God-given freedom. What the crazy, radical Democrats did to Justice Kavanaugh is a national disgrace. From the moment Brett Kavanaugh was known, well, you know what happened. We announced the name, we nominated him, and literally from the moment he was nominated, they didn't even know. It's actually, if you think of it, it's from before he was nominated, nobody knew anything about who it was going to be. I didn't even make my decision yet, and they started saying horrible things about whoever the person might be. They were on a mission to obstruct, resist, delay, demolish, and destroy. The Democrats have become totally consumed by their chilling lust for power. And I'll tell you something, we have a man, one of the most powerful men in the world, it's OK, comes from Kentucky, that's not bad. Got to respect that. And he heard about this, he says I want to be there. He's one of yours. He's joining us tonight. He's rock-ribbed Kentucky leader. He's been a leader for a long time. There's nobody tougher. There's nobody smarter. He refused to cave to the radical Democrats' shameful campaign of political and personal destruction. He stared down, tough cookie -- I know tough people, he's tough, he's Kentucky tough, which is about as tough... He stared down the angry left-wing mob. He never blinked, and he never looked back, and he got us a man who will be one of our great, great Supreme Court justices, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Come up here. Thank you, Kentucky. Aren't we proud of President Trump? Let me just add, thanks to President Trump and a Republican Senate, 84 new federal judges already this Congress. That's already a record, Mr. President. Keep sending them our way and we'll keep confirming them and change the court system forever. Thank you for being here. Thank you. And Mitch is a true fighter for Kentucky. He loves this state. And you know, we'll be running together in 2020. That will be a lot of fun. Thank you, Mitch. On this Election Day, November 6th, every American faces a simple choice. You can either vote for Democrat mob rule or you can vote for a Republican Party that stands proudly for law and order, fairness, freedom, and justice. Simple as that. If Nancy Pelosi... crying Chuck Schumer, and the radical Democrats take over Congress, they will try to raise your taxes, they will immediately restore job-killing regulations, they will impose, believe it or not, socialism, take away your health care, your health care and your whole life will be unaffordable, shut down immediately, oh, forget this one, shut down your coal mines in about two minutes. You see what's going on with the Second Amendment? They will destroy your Second Amendment. And the Democrats want to open our borders to a flood of deadly drugs and ruthless gangs. The fact is, Democrats have become the party of crime. They have. Republicans are the party of safety, and we are the party of jobs, jobs, jobs. And we're thrilled to be joined this evening by several terrific Kentucky Republicans. First of all, Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers. Where is Robert? Where is Robert? Thank you. Congressman Tom Massie. They've got them spread all over the place. Where's Tom? Doing a great job, thank you. They're doing a great job. Congressman Hal Rogers. Thank you, Hal. Congressman James Comer, James Comer. Thanks, James. James, the whole group, they have been incredible, I'll tell you what. We got tax cuts, biggest tax cuts in the history of our country. We got so many other things. ANWR. We got rid of the individual mandate. We had Obamacare repealed and replaced. We didn't get one Democrat vote, but we'll get it done. We had a little disappointment that night. A little bit of a disappointment. But it's essentially done anyway, because when you get rid of the mandate, the individual mandate, it's done. And what we have done with the remnants of Obamacare is we've kept your premiums down far below what anybody would have thought, through good management, through Secretary Alex Azar. Now a friend of mine who has helped us so much, he's really smart, but I have to say his wife, the last couple of days, has become maybe the biggest star in the family. She's been so -- I said, Rand, you have to get her on television more. She's become the biggest star in the family. Yes. A man that really has been a friend of mine, a special friend, and he's really something. He's a great guy. Not everybody knows that, believe it or not. Not -- it's like Mitch, not everybody knows that Mitch is a great guy. These are great people. There's something that happens to you when you grow up in Kentucky, I guess, right? These are great people. But, you know, I call Rand a senator of tremendous common sense. That's a great compliment, common sense. And you know what? Hey, Rand, he's young, he's spry, run up here for a second, Rand. Come up here, Rand. The president said he's tired. I could take 20 or 30 minutes, right? Now, I'm going to tell you a very quick story about the president, and this shows how he's different than any politician and why you're all out here. I went to him with an idea on health care. I said, let's let individuals buy it in a group. Let them join an association. Let competition drive prices down. The president said, it's a great idea. What did he staff say? Oh, no, we could never do that. What did all the middle managers say? Oh, we could never do that. And you know what the president said? Make it so. And he did it. But it's true. We were talking about health care and Rand had this concept that -- he was so far advanced, even the experts didn't know, and after they checked, they said, you know, he's right. He's right. Association health care, where you can team up with other companies, you can team up -- you go in, you get phenomenal pricing, you have no problems with crossing borders, so you get every insurance company, and it's taken off, Rand, and that was Rand's initial idea. That's true. And it's doing really well. Inexpensive and terrific. And another man, a very special friend of mine, he was a great businessman, decided to win and run in Kentucky. By the way, does that sound familiar? This guy was a really successful guy and he saw things happening in Kentucky, and he said, you know, I can do a tremendous job, and he really has done. And he doesn't want to be political. He wants to get the job done. This state is doing so well. You have your lowest unemployment numbers in history. You have your best incomes in history. You have jobs and companies flowing back in. And all of that wouldn't matter if I didn't like him, because if I didn't like him, I'd say, forget about him, right? But I like him a lot. He's a terrific man and a terrific governor, Matt Bevin. Thank you, Matt. Thanks, Matt. So we're here for a truly special guy. These are all special people. Something about this place. Boy, did we win by a lot. What did we win by, 38? Thirty-eight. We won by a lot. I have a feeling that Mitch McConnell in two years is going to do very good, very good. He's going to do very good. You know, he goes down as the greatest leader, in my opinion, in history. What we've done is incredible together. But he's better when I'm president than he ever was when anyone else was president. Doing much better. But I want to introduce the leader that we're all here for tonight. And all of our congressmen know exactly what I'm talking about. He has been so strong on all of the things that we stand for, tax cuts, regulation cuts. Every single event that we passed, and it's record numbers of events, he's been at the forefront, and he's got a little bit of a tough race with a Nancy Pelosi-picked figure. And I guess they did a little changing, and they did a lot of this and that, the Democrats do, that's the only way they can win. But I'll tell you what, I've seen the -- you know, outside, you have 25,000, 35,000, some crazy number of people, and we set up movie screens. We set up beautiful movie screens. And to those people outside, we love you. We love you. You have to see the lines, they go all the way back, many miles. But a lot of them stayed and they're watching screens outside. I like your location better, do you agree? But this is a special guy, and normally I wouldn't make a trip, but here I have two reasons. One was I love the state of Kentucky. And the other was that Andy Barr is a great congressman. Andy, come on up.  Mr. President, welcome to Kentucky's Sixth Congressional District. A swing district that two years ago, you sent a message to the nation because you won it by 15 points. And welcome to Madison County, a county, Mr. President, that you won by a whopping 32 points. Home of Eastern Kentucky University, where we are right now, the most pro-veteran university in America. Home to workers who relocated from Eastern Kentucky, who value a paycheck to put food on the table, and, Mr. President, thank you for ending the war on coal. And Madison County, home of the Department of Criminal Justice Training, the Kentucky State Police, two awesome police departments, and Democrat Sheriff Mike Coyle, the sheriff of the year, who says, Mr. President, to keep the drugs out of our communities, we need to build the wall.  And when I first met you -- when I first met you, Mr. President, I told you about our drug problem in Kentucky, and you listened. And six months later, I was in the White House with you when you declared a national public health emergency to fight the drug epidemic, the opioid epidemic. And we worked together and we funded the most significant investment to fight a drug crisis in American history. This president is a man of action. A man of action. Other people resist, but this president gets results. And so I want to turn it over to him, but I just want to remember one special night two years ago in Cleveland, the moment I knew this man would be the next president of the United States. Remember? Remember what he said. He said that my opponent has a slogan, and that slogan is I'm with her. Remember what he said next? What he said was, I have a different slogan, and that slogan is: I'm with you, the American people. Mr. President, I'm with you to fight for the American people! Thank you. That's pretty good. Now, you know, the one thing that Andy didn't say is that she paid a lot of money for that slogan. And the morning after I came up with my little feel on it, they changed the slogan. It was gone. It was gone. But we weren't gone, because this was the single greatest movement in the history of American politics. And our slogan was a great slogan. I think it's the greatest slogan that anybody will ever come up with. Although in two years, we have a new one, you know what that is. Ours is make America great again. Look at all these hats. And at the rate we're going, it's going to happen fast, it's called keep America great. It's got to be that. Right? So I'm here for Andy Barr. And that's a vote for safe communities, strong borders, and Kentucky values. Andy Barr. A vote for Andy's opponent, I had to do a little checking, who's he running against? Who? This is an extreme liberal named Amy McGrath. Chosen by Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, that's a real beauty... and the radical Democrat mob. Now, Amy supports a socialist takeover of your health care, which by the way means your taxes are going to triple if you're lucky. She supports open borders. She needs the tax hikes to cover the through-the-roof garbage that you want no part of. And she wants to immediately decimate your now-thriving coal industry. So if you want to stop Nancy Pelosi from becoming speaker of the House -- no, we can't do that. That will not be good. Then you have to get out and vote for Andy Barr, a great man. Great man. You know, actually, I must tell you, Kentucky, you're always involved at the middle of politics. The election of Andy is a very important thing, could make the difference between unbelievable continued success and, frankly, failure, where we fight for two more years with these people, with these obstructionists. So it's really an important race. It could be the congressman up -- I don't know if they're worried about them. They're so far ahead in their races. We don't have to talk about them anymore, right? We don't have to talk about them. We don't have to talk about them, but we were talking backstage, and they said it. This could be the most important race there is. So get out and vote. We can't let this happen. A majority of House Democrats have already signed up for socialist health care. By the way, it doesn't work anywhere in the world. Just so you understand. It doesn't work. It's good if you don't mind waiting like five weeks to see a doctor. They come from socialist countries. Frankly, they come from Canada, because they want to use our doctors. They come from all over the world. And we're making it now better. And they want to destroy everything that's been built, all of that great foundation. They want to outlaw the private insurance plans of 2.4 million Kentucky residents. And some of those plans are fantastic and inexpensive. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and terminate Medicare Advantage for nearly 250,000 Kentucky seniors who depend on it. Republicans want to protect Medicare, and we will, for our great seniors who have earned it and who have paid for it. And Republicans only will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. We're going to protect it. The new platform of the Democrat Party is radical socialism and it's open borders. Democrats want to abolish ICE and they want to turn America into a giant sanctuary for criminal aliens and MS-13 thugs. And don't kid yourself, that's what's going to happen. And they want to get rid of ICE. They think ICE isn't nice. Did you ever see what they're dealing with? First of all, they're incredible patriots. They have a job that nobody in this group wants. They go in there and they meet the most vile, most vicious people on earth like it's a day at the office. You don't want to do it. You don't want to -- yeah, you might do it. This guy might do it. You want a job? I'll get it to you with a -- look at this guy, this guy will do it. I'm looking at -- he might do it. You might do it. But you don't want to do it. They go in there and they liberate towns. These people came in by the thousands, and we're taking them out by the thousands. They're getting out. They're getting out. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans -- and you know this, you know this -- Republicans stand proudly with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and law enforcement. You know that. One by one, we are finding the illegal alien criminals, predators, drug dealers, MS-13 killers, and we are sending them back home. We are liberating America's cities and towns. That's what we're doing. The only immigration policy Democrats support is catch and release. How about that one? You catch a criminal thug, you take their name, and then you release them, say please show up in five years to court. Now, number one, it's ridiculous. Number two, they never show up. What a mess. We have the dumbest immigration laws in the world. The world laughs at us, but we're getting them changed. We need some more Republicans. We need some votes. And if you elect Republicans this November, we will pass legislation to end catch and release. We will -- I'll tell you, have you heard the other one? Right? Lottery. Lottery. Lottery. OK? Names, you pick them out, coming to the United States. Now, let me ask you, these countries set up lotteries. Do you really believe they're giving us their finest? No. This is a lottery. This was Chuck Schumer's special deal for this country. And we need to elect people so we get rid of it. We got -- maybe just get rid of it. How crazy. How crazy. How -- and then you have chain migration. You know what that is, right? So we had a man, horrible person, the west side in Manhattan, where I live, where I love, right along the Hudson River. He's driving a car down this roadway where the speed limit is 35. He's going about 70. And he decides to make a right turn into a beautiful park that goes along the river with lots of people. Many people were killed. Nobody ever talks about the people that were horribly injured. They lost legs, they lost arms. These are people that were running. They want to keep themselves in shape. They were working out. They were walking hand-in-hand together. They're dead. They're horribly wounded. Many will never, ever recover. Now, what happens? What happened to him? It will be years of litigation. He came in, and then he took chain migration, and he brought his mother, and his father, and his brother, and his sister, and his aunt, and his grandfather. None of them working. It ended up being approximately 22 people who came in. It's called a chain. Isn't that wonderful? A chain. And we're stuck with them. We're stuck with these people. And I don't want a chain. I want people to come into our country on a merit-based system. And I want them to help all of the great companies that are moving back into the United States. They're moving to Michigan, they're moving to Ohio, they're moving to Pennsylvania, they're moving to North and South Carolina. They're coming in. They're moving to Florida. And, yes, they're moving into Kentucky. And with what we've done, we've become so successful that we need people to come in with all these companies that are coming in. But we want great people that love our country, that respect our country, and that want to work. This election is about safety and it is about prosperity. Since the last election -- and these are numbers that the fakers back there, the fake news, would never have allowed me to say. They'd never in a million years, if I ever said this during the campaign, they would've had headlines. We've created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps. You know what that means? The second, food stamps. It means, number one, we get rid of an unbelievable cost. You wouldn't even believe it. But you know what else? You got a lot of happy people that are working. It's a great thing. It's a great thing. We've added nearly 600,000 manufacturing jobs. Remember, manufacturing's never going to come back? Never going to come back, remember? The previous administration, oh, you think that's going to happen? You'd need a magic wand. Well, I guess we had the magic wand. We had the magic wand. And these are great jobs and these are important jobs. Manufacturing jobs, companies pouring back in. Manufacturing. African-American unemployment has reached its lowest level ever recorded in history. African-American poverty has reached its lowest level in history. Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment has reached its lowest level in history. I can't believe I'm still saying this. I am so sorry, I apologize to the women in the room. Remember, I got 52 percent -- remember, they kept saying, he's not -- the fake news -- that's right. Remember he said -- they were all saying he will not do well with women? Wow, did we do well with women. Did we do well. Fake news. We did really well with women. But, unfortunately, the women's unemployment, Mitch, is not at a historic low. It's only the best number in 65 years. We let down women. We let down women. Sixty-five years, 3.6 percent. As the charts grow just a little bit, it will be historic very soon. The only reason to vote Democrat is if you're tired of winning. You know about winning. You really know about winning. Those horses win. You people are winners. I'm just afraid that Kentucky is winning too much.  You're going to send Matt Bevin to see Rand Paul and Mitch McConnell, and they're going to all come to the Oval Office to see me, and they're going to say, Mr. President, we can't do it anymore. Kentucky is winning too much. They can't do it. They don't like it. They don't want to do it anymore. They're going to say, we're winning so much, we just can't stand it. I'm going to say, Mitch and Matt and Rand, I'm sorry. We're going to keep winning. We're going to win more and more and more. We're going to keep winning. I'm sorry, folks. And I will send them happily back to Kentucky. You're winning a lot. We won today. We won today with the great pastor, Pastor Brunson. Last week, I announced that we are replacing the horror show, one of the worst trade deals ever made, known as NAFTA, with an incredible, brand-new U.S. Mexico-Canada agreement called the USMCA, USMCA. And even the Democrats are saying, wow, what a good deal that is. They can't believe it. We actually, Mitch, get bipartisan support. Can you believe it? Although, if it's too good, they won't support it. That's the problem. No, I will say, even Chuck Schumer liked it. Can you believe that one? He said that's a good deal. We've taken the toughest ever action to crack down on China's abusive trade practices. China -- and I have great respect for China, we all do, and I have great respect and like him for President Xi, the absolute head -- this is an absolute head of China. But you know what? They've been making $300 billion to $500 billion a year, taking it out of our country. We have rebuilt China. And I don't blame China. They can get away -- I blame our past leaders, because they should never have let it happen. I don't blame China. And thanks to our strong trade and economic policies, Brady Industries recently broke ground on a new billion-dollar aluminum mill that will create up to 1,500 jobs right next to Ashland, Kentucky. You know where we're talking about, right? Right? Ashland. Under Republican leadership, we also passed the biggest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country. Bigger than any have ever been passed. We have taken historic action to reduce the price of prescription drugs. You saw three weeks ago, Pfizer, Novartis, a lot of drug companies announced a very substantial increase. Then I said to Secretary Alex Ocasa -- and I said to Alex Azar, this is no good. This is no good. We got to do something. I want to call them. And I called the head of Pfizer, big company -- I guess like the biggest -- big, big drug company. I called Novartis. I called the heads of these companies, and they said, sir, sir, we will immediately drop the price back to where it was. Did you ever hear of that? And Rand Paul, it's the first time I realized how powerful it was to be the president of the United States. No, they -- they reduced -- now, I -- and by the way, I kid, but I do, I respect that they did that. I really appreciate it. And now because of what Secretary Azar is doing, you're going to see drug pricing, prescription drugs going down. You know, we have countries -- we have countries on this planet, the exact same pill, the exact same prescription, made in the exact same factory or plant, in Canada and in other countries all over the world, is much less, sometimes 50 percent, sometimes more than that, it's much less than what Americans pay. We're getting rid of the middleman. We're doing a number -- I'm going to be hated so much by some people in this country that made a fortune. But we're getting drug prices way down. And we started it last Friday with the signing of two bills. And something that the congressman really helped me with, all of them in the room and Andy, in particular, we help right now get critically ill, terminal patients access to life-saving treatments. We just passed right to try. Right to try. I hope nobody has to use it in this room. But this is a person who's terminally ill -- we have the greatest drug companies and the greatest research in the world by far, nobody close. But we have a pipeline that would take 12 to 15 years to get it approved and through the pipeline. We have that down, I think, to four years and maybe less, but we have to be careful. But if we had something that really showed great promise toward a problem that somebody had, who's terminally ill, for 44 years, they've been trying to get this passed. They couldn't. Not as easy as it sounds. Between the insurance companies, the liabilities, the country itself, the lawsuits. So I got everybody in a room, we got to get life -- this is really important stuff. Excuse me, how many of you know friends? If they have money, they travel all over the world, begging and looking for a cure. They want hope. If they don't have money, they go home, they have no hope. And we got right to try passed a month-and-a-half ago and already it's had an incredible impact. Incredible impact, 44 years. So now a patient is terminally ill, we have something that's looking really good, we make them sign a document, very important document, and they go in and we work with them and we see if we can help them. And we've had some incredible results already. So I just want to thank Andy Barr and all of the congressmen here and Mitch and Rand, because we got it passed. We got it passed. But to me that was a big thing. Many, many, many years they worked on it, they couldn't get it done. We also passed veterans' choice, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor instead of waiting online for 12 days, for 24 days, for 38 days. We have our great veterans -- we're doing a great job with our veterans -- we have our -- but this was one of the most important things -- because they'd be waiting in line for sometimes months if you can believe it. We had people waiting in line and they weren't very sick. By the time they saw a doctor, they were terminally ill. Now, if there's a line, if there's a way, because we have great doctors in the V.A. That's one thing we -- I'll tell you, everybody tells me. You can't get to them. Now, if there's a wait, you go to a local doctor, you get yourself taken care of, and we pay for the bill. We pay for the bill. That was another one. That was another one. Took over 40 years. I used to say to people, why don't we do that? I thought I was so smart. I said, listen, I got a great idea. These lines are terrible, 28 days, 30 days. I got a great idea. It's the greatest i"
"Whoa, whoa.  I love Ohio. It's great to be back in Ohio. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. This is a truly great state with thousands of hard-working, wonderful, beautiful American patriots. Beautiful. Under Republican leadership, America is being respected again. And all of those thousands of people that aren't under the shell that is standing out there, look at you. Look at you. They're getting very wet. Thank you. Thank you, all. Thank you. There are thousands of people that can't see a thing. In other words, you're better at real estate than they are, but that's OK. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. I'm really proud to report that earlier today we secured the release of Pastor Andrew Brunson from Turkey. He is now free from jail and he is in the air, heading to Germany, where he'll get off for a brief check, and I think he's going to be in great shape. And then he's coming to Washington, D.C., tomorrow, and we'll say hello to him. Went through a lot, you know? All about Pastor Brunson. He went through a lot, but he's on his way back. We've done that with a lot, right? We've had a lot of success. North Korea, Egypt, remember? We bring a lot of people back, and that's good. They want to come back to our country, and they're coming back to our country. Tonight, every American heart is with our fellow citizens affected by Hurricane Michael. Sounds like a very nice name. That was a vicious hurricane. Whether it's in Florida or Georgia or Alabama, North Carolina, South Carolina, a lot of areas affected, but we just want to give everybody our love. That was a devastating power that hit -- among the most powerful hurricanes ever to hit our country. It was devastating. But they'll rebuild. They're strong. They're great people. And just God bless you all. Thank you. My administration has been in constant communication with the state and local authorities all over the various states. When we're in trouble, we pull together, we pull together like nobody. We're here tonight to discuss the extraordinary achievements that we've made together in -- can you believe it -- less than two years? It's been Republican leadership and we are here to make sure that our amazing progress continues full speed ahead. Because America is booming. America is thriving. And America is winning, really winning again. And we are viewing now for the first time in many decades a phenomenon called so simply America first. And it's about time. It's about time. Right? About time. It's about time. The unemployment rate has just fallen to the lowest level in more than 50 years. Manufacturing confidence just announced has reached an all-time high. Think what that matters. Think what that is, confidence, confidence. The people of Ohio have confidence. Can tell you that. No, but think of it. If you remember the previous administration said manufacturing jobs... Other than that, you like them very much, right? But remember, they said manufacturing jobs, they're gone, they're dead. Remember the expression, you'd need a magic wand to bring them -- bring them back? We're bringing them back. I guess we have the magic wand. They're coming back. And they're coming back from Mexico, they're coming back from Canada, they're coming back from everywhere, because they all want to be where the action is. They all want to be in the USA. That's where we want to be. That's where the jobs are. We are now the hottest country anywhere in the world. All across...  By the way, I wish the cameras would get this crowd. This crowd is incredible. Look at the cameras back there. It's like the Academy Awards. Look at this. How would you like to have to do this every night? No, no, how would you like to have to do this every night? And one little mistake, one little mistake and they try to destroy your entire career. Boy. No, I mean, look at this. Seriously, look at -- look at the magnitude of it. Look at the number of the media back there. Look at that. Fake news. Fake news. Fake. You go back and they'll say, did he say -- did he say this? Or that? Or this? That's OK. You know what, we've learned how to live with them. We've learned how to live with them. We don't like it, but we've learned. All across Ohio, steel mills are reopening, and we are putting our coal miners back to work. One of the things we're most proud of - look, steel was dead. Steel was dead. I came into office, steel was a dead business. Now they're opening up plans, U.S. Steel, Nucor. They're opening up plants all over the country, big ones, new ones. We're taxing the hell out of the dumpers. You know, you had the dumpers that were hurting your steel industry? And you know what happens? After the industry dies -- would have died within two years. After it dies, they would come in and they would charge you three times more money. Nobody says it, but that's what happens. So we're going to have beautiful new American-made steel... It's not going to be mud or it's not going to be sand steel. You know they put garbage in this stuff they were dumping. We don't even know what's in it. It's going to be U.S. steel. It's going to be American steel. We're going to get the iron ore from our mines, right, beautiful. They're opening up again. Our mines are opening up again. Metallurgic coal, but our miners are back to work. We don't need outsiders telling us about our steel industry. It's incredible. Seriously, it's incredible what's happened. It's hot as a pistol. After years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation, which is what we want. And this has been...  So this has been a really historic week for America. Really historic. And by the way, our magnificent first lady, Melania... just returned from an incredibly successful trip to Africa. It was an incredible trip. And she came back, and she told me so beautiful, so beautiful, and yet such incredible in some cases poverty. They need help. They definitely need help. It's both beautiful and sad. It's got every kind of emotion. But you probably saw her travels. They were really incredible. And it opens your eyes to what's going on around the world. You're all very lucky in Ohio. That I can tell you. That I can tell you. Thank you. And on Monday night in the East Room of the White House, we achieved a tremendous victory for our nation, our freedom, and our Constitution. America watched as we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Did he get treated badly and unfairly or what? Horrible. And I'll tell you what. He's done us a tremendous service, what -- the way they treated him, I've never seen anybody treated like that. But he's done us a great service, because we are more energized as Republicans that ever -- I think ever before. I think ever before. We just got poll numbers for some of the Senate races. And you look at some of these Senate races where we weren't even going to contest. It's a Democrat that's in. We were figuring in -- you know, we're winning with candidates that are -- we're winning. We're beating people that we weren't going to contest. So it's been amazing. Because people realize how important the Supreme Court is. And we could have two, three, maybe even four more choices, and we have to be able to get the votes to put them through. Go out and vote November 6th. From the moment Brett Kavanaugh was announced, an angry Democrat mob was on a mission to resist, obstruct, delay, demolish, and destroy him. And before they even know -- I'll tell you, you saw it. Before they knew his name, they were saying horrible things. They didn't even know who was going to be the pick. He wasn't picked. I didn't know who was going to be the pick. And they were saying horrible, horrible things. These are bad people. We can't let this happen to our country. Republicans believe in the rule of law, not the rule of the mob. That's what it is. It's a mob. The people of Ohio can save America from radical Democrats. They've become radicalized. I mean, Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren, seriously... No, no, seriously, she's becoming mainstream. You believe that one? We have to elect a Republican House and a Republican Senate. We need the votes. We need the votes. And, by the way, for the people of Ohio, early voting starts right now. You got to get out. Vote early. And then anybody that votes early, you can leave. The hell with you. That's -- you know, I worked in Cincinnati, Ohio, two summers. I loved Ohio. I loved Ohio. I shouldn't tell you this, but I used to travel a lot to Kentucky. Does anybody travel to Kentucky? Right? No, I -- I like Kentucky. But I traveled to Kentucky when I spent a lot of time in the Queen City. I love the Queen City. We had a job, Swifton Village, Swifton. Does anyone ever hear of Swifton? And it was a great experience. It was a successful experience. I did it with my father, one of my earliest things that I've done, and I guess it's sort of like if you get your first up as a hit, you're a hitter, you hit, you sink the 10-foot putt on the first hole. But we had a great success in Ohio, and I've never forgotten it. And then they said -- remember, for months before the election, you cannot win without getting the great state of Ohio. Right? And I got the great state of Ohio. And I love the great state of Ohio. We got it. We got it. Remember? They used to say that every time. I used to hear it. I have fantastic people in Ohio that did a job for me. Bob Paduchik, where's Bob? I had just a great group of people. They did incredible work. But they constantly would say on these phony networks, you cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio. And then they started doing polls, and I was way up. And I think we won it by 9 or 10 points. A lot. We won it by a lot. In fact, you know the way, if it's close, they have to take hours and hours and hours, right? So with Ohio, I'll never forget, they said the polls have closed in Ohio. Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio. Crazy. We won Ohio by so much that it took one second before they called it, OK? We won by a lot. It's a great place. And by the way, have I produced? Look at what's coming into Ohio now. Have we produced? I produced and you produced. If Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats... take control, they will try to raise your taxes, impose socialism on this country, take away your health care, and take away your jobs. We have more people working now than ever before. They want to take away -- that's what will happen. The Democrats want to erase America's borders and let drugs, gangs and crime pour into our country. In fact, I've been going around lately saying the Democrats are the party of crime. And nobody even challenges me, not even the fake news media. They don't even challenge me. Republicans are the party of safety and Republicans are the party of jobs, jobs, jobs. And that's what's happened. And we're honored to be joined tonight by many terrific Ohio Republicans, including Republican Party Chair -- I have to say, this woman is incredible, because, you know, I got dropped just before the election by the head of the Republican Party. I've never been dropped in my life. And a woman came in who is a very successful person with a great family. And she took that thing over. What a job she's done. Her name is Jane Timken, and she is very special. Where's Jane? She's incredible. Thank you very much. And a man who said, oh, you're going to win, you're going to win, and I said, well, how do you know? So I had five people to choose from to head up my campaign in Ohio. And one name, I don't know, I liked the name, I liked the sound of it, his name was Bob Paduchik. Why do I like that name? Why? It's not outstanding. But he came in and he did a job, and I had the support of the people, but not the support of a lot of others. And he just said, you're going to win. And every time I called him up and say, you know, this happened, that happened, he said, that's OK, you're going to win by more. This guy's the most positive guy. So I want to thank Bob Paduchik. So good that we moved him over to the RNC, but, Bob, in about a year from now, get ready. You're coming back here. Thank you, Bob. And we have a friend of mine who's an incredibly respected man in the United States Senate. When he speaks, we all listen, including the president. He really is. He's a great, great guy. He's loved in Ohio. Senator Rob Portman. Where is he? Thank you. He's a respected guy. Thank you, Rob. Congressman Warren Davidson and Congressman Brad Wenstrup, thank you. Thank you, fellas. Great job. So many things we passed in Congress. Those two guys were there with us. Thank you very much. What a job they've done. We're also joined by your next lieutenant governor Jon Husted. Jon, thank you. Thank you, Jon. And I hear you're up a little bit, Jon. We've got to get that over, because you're going against a very bad guy. I'll tell you, he's a bad guy. And everybody -- I'll tell you, Jon is with a friend of mine, and they decided to get together, which is very smart. Instead of going like this to each other, they got together, and Jon is running with your next governor, Mike DeWine... And Mike and Jon are running against Elizabeth Warren's far-left disciple, Richard Cordray. Jon, am I allowed to say some bad things about Cordray? Because let me tell you, he did such a bad job at the agency that he ran. It was terrible. He was hurting people. And I think he enjoyed it. No, really. I really believe he enjoyed it. He was putting people out of business. They weren't loaning money to the people that they were supposed to. It was terrible. Cordray spent $250 million federal dollars trying to renovate a headquarters, his agency, that they didn't even own, more than twice what the entire building was worth. They didn't own it. And then it became a big scandal. But because it was a Democrat, the fake news didn't want to write about it. Then after spending like $50 million on some elevators, it turned out that they didn't work. If Cordray were ever -- and I'll tell you what, this is a Pocahontas dream to get this guy elected.  I can't believe -- you know, I know Ohio pretty well, right? I've done a lot for the steel industry. More than anybody's done in many, many -- I mean, you speak to U.S. Steel, they'll tell you. A lot for the miners, a lot for everybody. This guy does not belong in the state, folks. OK? First of all, he's a super liberal. Why do you do that? Why do you do that -- is he -- OK, go with DeWine, please. And Jon. Cordray would be an absolute disaster for Ohio. He doesn't know what the hell he's doing. I couldn't wait to get him out. We tried so hard. You know, you had one of these deals that you couldn't get him out. But we tried so hard. And they've done such a great job since we got him out. He was bad. You don't need him in Ohio. Now, I'm thrilled to introduce the next United States senator from Ohio, Jim Renacci, who's a great guy and a great friend of mine. Jim, come up. Come up. Come. This is a good man. Nothing's easy about politics, but I'll tell you what, he's in there fighting, and just get out and vote for him. He is a good, good friend of mine and a good man. Thank you, Mr. President. It's an honor to stand here with you tonight, like I stood with you 31 months ago when you were candidate Trump, and I told you I am with you. I told you I voted for you. I told you my wife voted for you, my family voted for you, my friends voted for you. Because we needed you to change Washington, and you haven't let me down. Look, this crowd loves you. Ohio loves you. And we love what you're doing! You've got the Ohio economy growing. Unemployment is down. Wages are up. The tax cut and jobs bill is working in Ohio. You have two Supreme Court judges confirmed and more circuit judges confirmed than any other president. You've repealed the individual mandate that was hurting so many individuals here in Ohio, renegotiated NAFTA, helping Ohio business, passed right to try. ISIS is on the run. And you have given our coal miners here in Ohio hope by reversing those devastating policies of the prior administration that had vowed to bankrupt that industry. Promises kept -- promises made, promises kept. Look, Mr. President, we are not tired of winning here in Ohio. And yet you've been able to do all that with no help from Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown. He has fought you every turn, voting against the tax bill, voting against coal miners, voting against your judges' confirmations. You asked for help, and that's why I jumped in this race seven months ago. And I am here to help, just like Ohio, everyone here is here to help. Sherrod Brown votes 96 percent of the time with Chuck Schumer and 94 percent of the time with Elizabeth Warren. Yet he voted 100 percent of the time with President Obama's judge appointments. He supported Hillary Clinton for president.  And -- and even though -- and even though you are ripping up those trade agreements that aren't working for Ohio, Senator Brown had the gall just a month ago to say the only thing President Trump has done for trade policy is run his mouth and line his pockets. That's the type of guy who is not helping this president. Sherrod Brown is the fourth most liberal senator in the country. That's not Ohio. That's not even close to the average American. He votes like a Hollywood liberal, and he has received the most lobbyist money in the Senate, more than any other senator, he has received the most lobbyist dollars. Look, it's time we send Sherrod Brown packing. And it's time we send me to Washington. Someone that's willing to help this president...  In 25 days... In 25 days, in just 25 days, we need to retire Sherrod Brown. We need a red wave. We need a red -- not only a red wave -- and I said this earlier. Mr. President, Ohio is going to deliver a red tsunami. Thank you for what you're doing, Mr. President. And thank you for what you've done for Ohio. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Jim. It is true. Sherrod Brown's never voting for us. He didn't vote for anything that we want. Yet I hear he goes around -- he does the best commercials. In fact, I just want to think, is he a Republican? He's doing these commercials that he likes Donald Trump. He'll never vote for us. He didn't vote for Justice Kavanaugh. He didn't vote for tax cuts. He doesn't vote for us, folks. I mean, it might be nice for him to say he agrees with my economic policy when he's never going to vote for it. So you're just kidding yourself. He voted yes on amnesty for illegal aliens. He voted yes on deadly sanctuary cities. We started building the wall, and we've made progress, but he voted against it.  So illegal immigration takes American lives, American jobs, and American taxpayer dollars. A border wall, which is moving faster than anybody would believe... is truly a life-saving barrier against deadly floods of drugs, crime, smugglers, traffickers, cartels. Our brave border agents want a wall. They need a wall. It's happening. It's moving. We have made so much progress. We will finish the wall. If you want more jobs and less crime, if you want to stop Schumer from running the Senate... we need the vote of Jim Renacci. We do. Jim is a good person. He's a great guy. We need his vote! You know they say we have a majority. But if somebody has a cold, they can't come in, we don't have a majority anymore. We got to get people. We've got to get some Republicans so we can vote. Finally, it's my privilege to introduce a tremendous Ohio Republican. We're here for him tonight. A great friend of mine, he's fought so hard for everything we've done. He's a true fighter for the state, Congressman Steve Chabot. Great guy. Come up, Steve. Come up, Steve. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. President. And God bless Warren County! All right, yeah, all right. And God bless Hamilton County, too. I have Hamilton County. And Butler County, as well, and the Kentuckians. Oh, God bless you all. And God bless President Trump! Thank you. And I never knew I'd say this. But God bless Kanye West! Hey, you know -- you know how many liberals it takes to screw in a light bulb? None, because they'd prefer to stay in the dark, so...  Let me just -- let me just say, I got like a -- I got about a six-page speech here. I decided the more Steve Chabot you get, the less President Trump you're going to get, so I'm not going to give this speech. God bless you all, and God bless the President Trump! Thank you, Steve. So just remember, a vote for Steve Chabot is a vote to protect your family, your jobs, and your country. Now, Steve's winning. Nice poll numbers. But don't take any chances. Get out and vote, please, OK? No chances. We don't want to hear about any upsets. He's a great, great guy. If you want to stop the radical Democrats, if you want to stop Nancy Pelosi from becoming speaker -- can you believe it -- and you have to get out and vote for Steve. Also at stake in this election is Medicare. Democrats have signed up for a socialist takeover of American health care that would utterly destroy Medicare and Rob our seniors of the benefits they paid into their entire lives. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and they've paid for it. And the Democrats want radical socialism, and they want open borders where everybody pours into our country. It's what they want. I don't get it, but that's what they want. Does anybody want that? Open borders. The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE. Think of that. I'll tell you what, the incredible men and women of ICE are not treated properly. They're not treated properly. They do an incredible job. The Democrats want to turn America into a giant sanctuary city for criminal aliens, MS-13 killers, and anybody else that wants to come in. We're not going to have it. We're not going to have it. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. This election is about safety and is about prosperity. Since the election, which is incredible. If I would have said this, I've been to Ohio so many times, been to every part of Ohio. The people are great. But if I would have said this, the fake news would have said, how dare he say that. Since the election, we've created over 4.2 million new jobs... and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps. Big deal. That's a big deal. We've added nearly 600,000 brand-new beautiful manufacturing jobs. Right? African-American unemployment has reached its lowest level in the history of our country. And African-American poverty has reached its lowest rate ever, lowest rate ever. My -- that's a big number, right? How do they beat that number? How does anybody beat that number? We're going to have these people come in. For over 100 years, they've claimed and they've wanted and they've said -- they've lied to African-Americans. Remember my statement, what do you have to lose? Guess what? They all believe it now. What do you have to lose? They're doing -- we are doing great as a country. But I'm so proud -- I am so proud of the kind of numbers you're hearing. My administration is fighting every day to deliver safety, opportunity, and justice for everybody, for everybody. We're asking as an example all African-American voters to honor us with their support this November. Get away from the Democrats. Get away from the Democrats. They've done nothing. They've done nothing. Think of it. We have the best numbers in history on employment and unemployment and median income and many other things. And I think we're going to get the African-American vote. And it's true. Kanye West, what he did was pretty amazing yesterday. Pretty amazing. And you know who else was with him? A guy you know well, big Jim Brown. Big Jim. What do you think Big Jim would be making today in the NFL? He was unstoppable, right? Unstoppable Jim Brown. He was a great football player and is an even greater man. He's great. Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans likewise have the lowest unemployment in the history of our country. And women unemployment just fell to 3.6 percent, which is soon to be changed to historic levels, but right now, I'm sorry, it's the lowest in 65 years, OK? Sorry! Sorry, women! I let the women down. The only reason to vote Democrat is if you're tired of winning, right? Tired of winning. Last week, I announced that we are replacing the horrendous NAFTA -- NAFTA was a disaster, folks -- NAFTA was a disaster -- with the incredible, brand-new, U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement, the USMCA. It's opening up Canada, opening up Mexico for our farmers, our -- everybody. We've taken the toughest ever action to crack down on China's unfair trade actions and trade abuses. And thanks to our tariff, and especially on steel that's been dumped all over this country, the Ohio steel industry and the U.S. steel industry is roaring back to life and soon will be hitting its most successful years ever. Very serious. And you see it. You see it all over this state. Under Republican leadership, we passed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. And by the way, Sherrod Brown voted against them. We reduced high-dose opioid prescriptions by 16 percent during my first year and now they're dropping much lower than that. And I'll soon sign into the law the largest legislative effort in history to address the opioid crisis where just this year we got $6 billion from Congress -- thanks to Rob Portman and a lot of others -- thank you, Rob -- but Rob and so many others helped. Very little Democrat support. We also passed veterans' choice, the V.A. Giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor and the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure anyone who mistreats our veterans, who we couldn't fire, we couldn't do anything about it, we now look at them and say, Jim, you're fired. Out. Get out. True. True. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion for the second year to fully rebuild the American military, which had to happen. We needed it. And much less importantly, when it comes to the military, every bit of equipment is being built in the USA. That's the only place where jobs are secondary. Number one, we needed the equipment. But it's all being built here. We make the greatest military equipment in the world. At my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces called the Space Force. Very important. Very important. That's very important. Hate to say it, but very soon, that's where it's going to be at. It's going to be space, everything, defense, offense, everything. And we have tremendous support from Rob and the Senate. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal, and look what happened to Iran. You know, when I took office, Iran was all over the place. They were taking over Syria. They were taking over Yemen. They were taking over everything. I actually said, this is going to be a problem, and we've got to do something. And about four months ago, we withdrew from that horrible, ridiculous deal. And you take a look what's happening to Iran. There's riots all over the streets, all over the cities. It's a whole different ballgame. It's a whole different country. And it's looking real good. Looking real good. And we have recognized the capital of Israel and reopened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together, we've made unbelievable progress, and we're just getting started. We have so many other things. If you vote to elect Republican House, Republican Senate, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and raise your incomes very, very substantially. We will protect Medicare and we will protect your Social Security. The Democrats cannot do it. We will continue to confirm judges who interpret the Constitution as written. We will fully secure the border. We will pass case law, crack down on sanctuary cities, end the visa lottery and chain migration, defend the ballot box for American citizens, and throw vicious MS-13 gangs the hell out of our country, like we're doing right now. You know, I say it to people, MS-13 gang, vicious, horrible people. We're throwing them out of here by the thousands. But you know who's doing it? Do we love law enforcement or what? But you know who's... But ICE, in Long Island, where I sort of grew up -- I was right next to these areas. I know them so well. You had towns that were practically taken over by MS-13. And ICE goes in like it's a day in the office. And they're tougher and smarter that these wise guys. And they start throwing them in the paddy wagon, throwing them in, get the hell out of here. And you know what? The towns are liberated. The people are clapping from windows. The people are clapping all over the streets. These towns, like a country that was invaded and taken over and then was liberated. These towns are being liberated of the MS-13 garbage that came into our country. Under the previous administration, by the way. And they came in by the tens of thousands -- well, we have set every record on getting them out. And I want to tell you, there's nothing that gives me more pleasure. And for all of the companies that are moving back in to the United States, we will finally have a merit-based system of immigration. Not just lump -- not a lottery, pick them out of a hat. Who the hell are they? Who is he? Pick them out of a hat. We're letting people come in on merit, where they can help you, where they can help these companies grow. Right now, we have a system, lottery, a lottery. Think of it, lottery. Oh, pick 'em, I wonder? What people do you think these countries are putting in? Do you think they're putting in their finest? I don't think so. I don't think so. So we're going to end it. We're going to have a merit-based system. Bring them in through merit. We're lifting millions of people from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. And you see that happening. But to achieve this, you have to get out November 6th or vote early and vote Republican. We need the votes. We have to have those votes. For years and years, you've watched as your leaders apologized for America. They apologized for America. Now you finally have a president who is standing up for America.  I have to tell you, I wish these fakers back there, the fake news, I wish they'd turn the cameras and show behind them, show outside these walls. Look at the people out there. It's amazing. Look, they never turn the cameras. I go home, I say to my wife, how did the crowd look? They only show your face. They never move the camera. But you know what? She can tell by the sound, because... True. She can tell by the sound, because, you know, if you have, like, let's say, one of the normal presidents walk in. We've had a lot of normals. And some great ones. You'd have, what, 300 people show up. But you can tell by the sound, because 300 people cannot make the sound of thousands and thousands and tens of thousands like that. They can't do it. So even though they refuse -- you know, normally I'd like it, but I don't. They don't want to move the camera. The only ones that become famous are about six people right behind me.  They don't have the best seat in the house, but they're going to become the famous ones. No, but, honestly, you know, I know what stadiums sound like, and this sounds like on television we're in the middle of an Ohio State football game. It's what it sounds like. It's what it sounds like. And speaking of Ohio State -- they're not doing too badly, are they, huh? Great coach. You have a great coach, great guy. Great guy. We're standing up for your values. We're standing up for Ohio. And we are proudly standing up for our national anthem. But to continue our momentum, I need you to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and vote Republican, vote early or on November 6th, vote Republican. Vote for Steve Chabot, Jim Renacci. Vote for DeWine. We need DeWine. We got to have DeWine. Where the hell is Jon? Are you over there, Jon? He's still here. He'll never leave. You got to vote. We need a governor here -- you cannot let this happen to Ohio. This Democrat is a disaster. A proven disaster. Vote DeWine. He's a good man, and a good man, too. You've got two good men. A vote for a Republican Congress is a vote for more jobs, more wealth, more products made right now in the USA, which is w"
"Hello, Pennsylvania. Hello, Pennsylvania. Great people. Incredible people. And I'm thrilled to be here tonight in Erie, Pennsylvania, with thousands of loyal, hard-working, and beautiful American patriots. That's what you are. Before we begin, I want to send our thoughts and prayers of our entire nation to everyone in the path of Hurricane Michael, especially in the Florida panhandle, where it's hitting and hitting hard. It's a big one, one of the biggest we've ever seen. All of Pennsylvania, all of America sends its unwavering love and support. My administration is working closely with Florida Governor Rick Scott and the governors of North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama, Georgia, anybody else affected, to provide the full resources and steadfast support of our federal government. We are... We're all set to go. We're going to follow it right in. We have massive amounts of water and food. And we have the electric companies, thousands and thousands of electrical workers, they're going to follow it as it leaves. We're going to follow right behind. Help the situation. Everyone's working in close coordination with local officials. And I'll be traveling to Florida very, very shortly, so we just want to wish them all the best. And Godspeed. Godspeed. God bless you all. And you know -- and I speak because so many of my friends are here with us in Pennsylvania, we will spare no effort, no expense, no resource to help these great fellow citizens of ours that are going through a tough time right now. We know when Americans face hardship, we support each other, we stand with each other, we care for each other, and we will always pull through. It will be successful. We will always be successful at what we do. Florida, Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina, South Carolina, again, two weeks ago, and now they're going to get a lot more water coming in. That's what they don't need is water right now. These are great people. Tonight we are going to discuss the extraordinary achievements we've made for our fellow citizens in less than two years' time. You know, it's been less than two years. All those beautiful red hats, Make America Great Again... And we will discuss the next steps we must take to protect this amazing progress and to continue building an even greater future for all Americans. That's what's happening. You look at what's going on. It's been incredible. I said the other night -- and you know that these folks will dispute us if we're wrong. But this has been the greatest revolution ever to take place in our country. Here we are. The greatest ever. I remember, during the primaries and prior to the election, they were saying, wow, this is -- this is something not -- there's been nothing like this since Ronald Reagan. Then it kept going and going and going, and then we actually won. In Tennessee, I remember a great Congressmen Duncan, they said, he said, sir, early voting. He said, sir, they're coming from the hills, the valleys, people that haven't voted for a long time because they didn't want to vote for the people that were running for office. And they've got Trump banners and Trump hats and Trump tattoos. I've never seen anything like it. All about you. And he was right.  And then after that, they said, well, we have to go back further than Ronald Reagan, so they talk about Andrew Jackson and said, let's see, the 1830s, that's a long time. And then they said on election night that this superseded even Andrew Jackson. So you won it. It's yours. And we're doing well. We're doing well. We are producing and doing even better than we said we would. It's been amazing. This election is about your families, your values, and what kind of country you want to leave for your children. This election is about keeping America safe, keeping America strong, keeping America proud, keeping America free. And this has been a historic week for our nation. And you know what I'm talking about. You know, all my life I've heard that a president's most important decision is who he or she picks for the United States Supreme Court. And as you know, on Monday night, we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Justice Kavanaugh now sits alongside Justice Gorsuch... to defend your rights, your Constitution, and your God-given freedom. Two great men. They will go down as great, great justices of the Supreme Court. You watch. What the radical Democrats did to Brett Kavanaugh and his beautiful family is a national disgrace. It's a disgrace. What they did was a disgrace. You look at Cory Booker, the way he talked, and then you look at what he did. You look at Senator Dianne Feinstein, what she did. The disgraceful behavior. The disgraceful leaking of documents. You look at what they did. You look at the false charges. You look at the false accusations. It was a disgrace. It was a disgrace! And people were saying, thank you, sir, for sticking and thank you for not giving up. You know what? I never even thought of it, folks. I never even thought of it. Never even thought of it. But on November 6th, you can vote to reject the Democrats' shameful conduct by electing Republican House and, really, we need it badly, we need these votes, a Republican Senate. Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning like never before, because we are finally putting America first. Just two days ago, the unemployment rate has fallen to the lowest level in 50 years. It was just announced that manufacturing confidence is at an all-time high. Historic. Big thing, confidence. You remember the previous administration? They said, oh, you can't bring back manufacturing jobs. Really? You can't bring back... That was wrong. Remember they said you'd need a magic wand. Well, we've got -- I guess we have, right -- we have a magic wand. And those are our great jobs. And we are unleashing the power of Pennsylvania shale and clean, beautiful Pennsylvania coal, beautiful, beautiful, clean coal. We are putting our miners back to work. We are putting our steelworkers back to work. And by the way, I don't know how many people are in the steel industry, but one of the hottest industries -- and this was dying. The steel industry was dead and dying. One of the hottest industries right now in our country is American steel. U.S. Steel is opening and expanding seven different plants and spending a tremendous -- billions of dollars doing it. And what does it mean for you? Jobs, jobs, very simple. What does it mean for our country? What does it mean for our country? We can't lose the steel industry. The steel industry was on its last legs, and now, after four months of really intensely doing what I do... it's thriving. It is thriving. It's amazing, actually. It's amazing. You got to have steel. You know, you need steel for defense. You got to have steel. Supposing you don't have steel and we do have a problem defense-wise. You going to call China, please send us some steel? And aluminum is doing great again. These are things we have to have. But beyond that, it's tremendous numbers of jobs already taking place. The head of U.S. Steel said he's never seen anything like it. And what did we do? We essentially stopped the dumping. They were dumping garbage all over our country. It wasn't even good. It was sand steel. It was rotted steel. It was garbage. They're dumping it all over our country. So now we can take our own metallurgic ore out of our mines that we can bring it here and to other places, and we can actually have our industry. We don't need this product coming in untested from other countries. We don't need it, folks. We've got it here. We don't need it. And you watch what's going to happen with jobs, and you watch what's going to happen with price. Very proud of that industry. After years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. But if Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats... take over Congress, they will try to raise your taxes -- we've lowered them tremendously -- impose socialism, which is where they're coming from... and take over and destroy American health care. And you see how well we're doing with health care. You see it. Democrats want to abolish America's borders and allow drugs and gangs to pour into our country unabated. And I say this, and I mean this. The Democrats are the party of crime. That's what's happening. They are the party of crime. Republicans are the party of law, order, and justice. And we are also the party of jobs, jobs, jobs. You see that. We're thrilled to be joined tonight by several really terrific friends of mine, Pennsylvania Republicans, including a man that's helped me so much in Washington, like tax cuts, like regulation cuts, like many other things, Congressman GT Thompson. A man who's really doing well, if you believe in polls. I believe in polls. Only the ones that have us up, because they're the only honest ones.  Other than that, they're the fake news poll. Fake news. Fake news. You know they take these polls, they show them, I said, that can't be right. What they want to do is keep you out of the voting booth. Take your wife, take your husband, go to a movie, come back, watch the results. You say, you know, I love so and so, but the polls say he can't win. Darling, let's go to a movie tonight. We'll go home and we'll watch -- and that's what happens. They talk you out of it. They're dishonest. just like their reporting is dishonest, their polls are dishonest. Not all of them. Not all of them. No, not all of them. But many of them, and I saw it. I saw it. And yet there were some that got us very right on that great, great evening. Was that the most exciting evening of our lives? Remember, we won Florida? And remember John King, nice guy at CNN, fake news, CNN... Remember, early -- it was early, and we won by a lot. We won Florida by a lot. Remember the red, right, the red, beautiful red. I never liked red so much.  Against the blue, I didn't like blue.  And the whole map is like red. And he's going crazy. But early, Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. Oh, my gosh. Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. Oh, that was upsetting to him. Remember when they said that Texas would be long, it would be a long call, go late into the night, because they said it's just going to be too close to call? So the polls closed at 8 o'clock, and they never call them early unless you win by a landslide, right? So the polls closed. The polls have closed in the state of Texas. Donald Trump has won the state of Texas. Right? Which other one? Utah, remember it was so -- it was so close, Utah. They had a guy that I never saw before. I don't know. There's this guy. Do you know who I'm talking about? And they had crooked Hillary, the three of us. And this guy was supposed to come in second, but I was going to be -- it's going to be very close. Maybe I could edge, but this guy was going to come either first or second, and crooked Hillary was supposed to be third. So, the Utah, great people. We just gave over millions of acres of great space, public space to Utah. So what happens? What happens? So they say, oh, for weeks I'm hearing how close Utah is. So the polls close at 8 o'clock. Eight o'clock and three seconds, Donald Trump has won... the state of Utah. We won it by... And on top of that, this guy came in third. He didn't even come in second. Crooked Hillary came in second. A long ways away. Long ways. Remember? Anyway. But was that the most exciting night? Was that the greatest? Well, if you look at it, when you think of it, there was collusion between Hillary, the Democrats, and Russia. There was collusion. There's no question about it. There was a lot of collusion with them and Russia and lots of other people, by the way. But so you remember -- so we win Florida, then we had a -- you know, to win the Electoral College is very tough. The other is easier. You go to three or four states and you work, and you do -- but to win, got to be smart. You're right. You got to be smart. Got to be smart. You got to -- and you have to have great support. This is our support. But you got to run the whole East Coast. If you're a Republican, it's very, very hard. Electoral College is much harder than anything. Remember, they said, there is no path. I heard this so many times. I said to my wife, oh -- our first lady, how's she doing? Good? I said to Melania, I said, I've heard there is no path, there is no path to 270. Right? How many times have you heard that? Thousands? I've been hearing it for months. There is no path. And I kept going -- I love this state -- I kept going to Maine, for one, because they had -- maybe, if I have a great night, 269. Of course they could never say I could get to -- so I kept going to Maine five times, because I wanted to get one, and I ended up getting the one in Maine, but I also got Michigan, and Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania. Remember that? Remember that? And what angered me, because I love this state, and I went to school in this state, right? I went to school in this state. I love Pennsylvania. I went to school in this state. Great place. Great people. What angered me is Pennsylvania hasn't been won for many years by Republicans, but every Republican thinks they're going to win Pennsylvania. They didn't quite get it. But I got it. The workers, I got it. Every Republican -- I used an expression. You know, there's an expression, but under the rules of ""Me, Too,"" I'm not allowed to use that expression anymore. Can't do it.  It's the person that got away. See, in the old days, it was a little different. Pennsylvania -- I'll just do it anyway. I would do it, except for these people up there. They would say, did you hear what President Trump said? Did you hear what he said? So there is expression, but we'll change the expression. Pennsylvania was always the person that got away. That's pretty good, right? The person that got -- and for many years, nobody -- no Republican won Pennsylvania. And -- but they always thought they were going to. Pennsylvania, great. And then they lost it by a lot. I said I know we're going to win Pennsylvania, but all night long, they had one point. But if I lost every single vote in Pennsylvania, I was 99 percent of the vote cast, and I said, will you please project Pennsylvania? Let Pennsylvania be the state where I win this election? I was winning North Carolina, South Carolina. We won Florida. We were doing -- we were running the East Coast. And I kept saying, why aren't they -- and ask them. Ask them. Why aren't they announcing Pennsylvania? One point left, 99 percent of the vote cast, right? Ninety-nine percent of the vote cast. One point left. If I lost every single vote, I won Pennsylvania by a lot. I kept saying, why aren't they announcing Pennsylvania? I thought it must be some kind of a technical malfunction.  So they didn't do it until late in the evening. It stayed forever. I kept going, why aren't they announcing? I'd love to win with Pennsylvania. But honestly, then what happened? Out of the blue, Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin. And then out of the blue, first time in decades, Donald Trump has won the state of Michigan. And then finally they announced, late in the morning, which we knew they just couldn't do it. They couldn't do it. They just couldn't. Donald Trump has won the great state of Pennsylvania. They didn't do it that way. They didn't do it that way. They didn't do it that way. They did it with tears flowing down their face. This can't be happening. Can this -- did you see some of them crying? And we were all crying, too, out of happiness, right? Because there has never been anything like what we all did. OK? We did it together. And now we're doing great trade deals. We're fixing our military. We're taking care of our vets. We are doing so much. We're cutting regulations. So you have a congressional candidate running, taking the place of a fantastic person. You know who that is. But you have a man named John Joyce who's running, and he's way up in the polls, but don't let that fool you. Get out and vote. Get out and vote. John Joyce. Where is John? Thank you, John. State Senators Dan Laughlin and Michele Brooks, and your next governor of the state of Pennsylvania -- I'll tell you, this guy is working hard, folks. He said he did 631 events. I said that's a lot.  I'll tell you, he's a really good man and he's a hard-worker, and I know it's a tough race. But based on competence, based on everything, very successful guy. Successful businessman, which we like. Scott Wagner. Scott? And maybe the best thing I can say about Scott Wagner is that Judge Jeanine thinks he's fantastic, OK? That might be the greatest endorsement. And I -- you have my full endorsement. That might be the greatest endorsement I can give you, Scott. Judge Jeanine. I'm especially thrilled to introduce a terrific Pennsylvania congressmen. He's been a friend of mine for a long time, long before I did this whole political thing. A congressmen came up to me the other day, he said, sir, I've been winning for many years and I'm a proud congressmen. I've won many races, 10 to be exact. I've only lost three. I said, you lost three? Yes, a long time ago, when I was young. And I'm very proud, I'm a real professional. I said, you know, I've never thought of it that way, but I've only ran one time, one... It was for the presidency. And we won the presidency, right? We won the president. Now, I had to do it, because he was bragging about his political career. This wasn't Mike Kelly, by the way. Somebody else. And I had to do it. I said, I never thought of it that way, but I ran one time, and we won. OK. And it's also the presidency, right? So, you know. But a man that's been a friend of mine for a long time, he's a tremendous man, and his name is Congressmen Mike Kelly. He loves you people. And just like your other congressmen, and John Joyce, just like your other congressmen, Mike is strong on crime, tough as hell on borders, powerful on trade, and he is really great on jobs. You see what he's doing. Mike was leading the fight, along with JT and the others, in Congress to cut your taxes, which we did at a level that they haven't seen before, cut regulations, and to protect American workers and American steelworkers. We're going to dredge the channel to Lake Erie. And we're going to replenish the sand to Presque Isle. Do you know what Presque Isle is? Presque Isle. They've been talking about that for a long time. Mike keeps calling, sir, we want to fix up Presque Isle. I said, Mike, what the hell is Presque Isle?  He said, sir, it's a beautiful beach. I had a picture sent to me. There's no sand. That's what he wants. He wants sand. And we're going to get him the sand, OK? We're going to get him the sand. So, he's a great guy. You got to go vote for him. Let me just invite just for a couple of seconds, Mike, please, come on up.  Oh, OK, you know what? Listen, listen, President Trump and I have so much in common. First of all, he loves Pennsylvania... and he -- and he made a commitment tonight. He said, what can we do to make it even better in Erie than it is now? What can we do to take the greatest of the Great Lakes and make it better? I said, Mr. President, we need to get sand replenishment. He said, how much do you need? I said, I'm not sure. He said, let me know. You're knowing to get that sand. Yeah! And then he said, so what else? What else? I said, you know what, we need to get some dredging done in the channel so that we don't have to light load any more, our ships can come in and out and get out to the world and bring goods in at a much cheaper price. He said, you know what, we're going to do that, too! And then I said to the president, you know what, Mr. President, you and I have a lot more in common than probably most people understand. And he goes, what would that be? I said, well, sir, we both married up.  We both married up! So this beautiful girl standing beside me tonight, mother of four, grandmother of 10, and five of them are over there right now with my son, George, retired Army captain, and they're here because they love this president. Look, you know that in 2016, candidate Donald Trump came here to this same arena, to a crowd that was almost as big as this. My god, we got thousands of people outside that just want to get in. There's just not enough room for all the love. The president as a candidate said, this will not be my first trip to Erie, Pennsylvania. This will not be my first time to stand on the shores of the Great Lake Erie. He said, I will be back. But you know what he also did? He made promises to us in 2016. And people said, no, no, no, there's no way he can do that. There's no way we can get there. My gosh, we just spent eight years of somebody telling us in the White House that America's best days have left her. And you foolish, foolish people. You Americans actually still seem to think that you're exceptional. You are not exceptional! I want to tell you something. Promises made, promises kept. The strongest personality, the strongest president we have seen in our lifetime! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!  Listen, I got to tell you, the last 21 months of my life, I have seen something happen in America that I had never seen before. I have seen the resurrection of the greatest nation the world has ever known. It knows no boundaries. It doesn't differentiate because of the color of your skin, the shape of your eye, what your gender is, where you worship. Every single American and at every single way every single day is stronger because of this man. You're the best. You are the best! Now, let me let you in on a little secret. You know, all of us deplorables are here tonight. Yeah, we're all here! But you know there's another group out there that says, you know what, we've got to win these midterms. We've got to knock this president off his perch. We've got to knock America down a notch or two. Well, I'll tell you, the president said, we're going to win, and we're going to keep on winning, and you're going to get tired of winning. I'll tell you, in Erie, Pennsylvania, we never get tired of winning. That's who we are! I'm going to ask you all -- I'm going to ask you all to do one thing tonight. As you look at this gentleman, who left a life that was so comfortable, who left a life that was so luxurious, to be torn apart every day, to have our first lady attacked every day, to have the first family attacked every day... that is not who we are. Now, you know how you're going to change that? You're going to take the enthusiasm you have tonight, you're going to take the love that you have in your heart for the greatest country in the greatest nation in the history of mankind, and you're going to get out and vote. You're going to show up in numbers that nobody ever thought would turn out. Now, listen. There's an old saying. You've got to play it through the whistle. Right? You got to play it through the whistle. You know what this man's saying is? You've got to play it through the echo of the whistle. Listen, I am so grateful and so thankful that an American citizen came out of nowhere to take the reins and reform and recommit this country to the greatest, greatest nation the world's ever known. I got to tell you, I'm with you, we're all together. Let's go win! Let's go win! Let's go win!  What do you think of that, folks? And, truly, look, he's in good shape. You see that. How would you like to be his opponent?  But still, you never know. A vote for Mike is a vote to make America great again. It's very simple. I want to introduce another congressmen who has been a friend of mine, also, for a long time. And he had a very sad day yesterday. He lost his brother. He lost his brother. And he loved his brother like crazy. I said, how close? He said the closest. And a very, very strange, horrible thing happened. And he doesn't want to talk about it. But I will tell you it's a hard thing for him. And he loves this state, he loves the people. He's been an incredible congressman. He was a politician and various things. He went on to become a great congressman. He is so respected in Washington. And the only bad thing when he said he's going to do this, at my suggestion, I said, Lou, I'm telling you, you can win. And he said, well, if you think it's important. It was really at my suggestion. In other words, I got him into this.  It could have been for the rest of his life. He could have been a congressman. But he's a special man. He's a total winner. And he had a rough time the last few days. And something else happened on top of that. But I'm honored to introduce the next United States senator from the state of Pennsylvania, my good friend, Lou Barletta.  Thank you. Thank you very much. You know, Mr. President, I happen how much you love Pennsylvania. This is like the 9th or 10th time that you've been here. And each time that you come, the list of promises made, promises kept gets longer and longer. And that's OK with us, because now you're overseeing the greatest economy in American history right now. This economy is soaring. GDP last month was 4.2 percent. Unemployment, 3.7 percent. Four million new jobs were created. And this is the stat I love the most: Four million Americans came off of food stamps. Four million Americans came off of food stamps. Black unemployment at an all-time low. Hispanic unemployment at an all-time low. Women's unemployment at a 64-year low. There are more jobs than people who are unemployed. And I'll tell you how good the economy is: This economy is so good that even Colin Kaepernick found a job. Now, who would want to stop that? Who would want to stop what's happening to the American people right now? I'll tell you who wants to stop it: Bob Casey wants to stop it. Senator Bob Casey went to Washington and he forgot about Pennsylvania. He became -- in Washington, he became -- it's no surprise -- he became one of the most liberal senators in Washington. He no longer represents Pennsylvania values. I'll tell you how radical -- I'll tell you how radical he has become. He is so radical that he said he will vote no, no matter who the president nominates for the next Supreme Court pick. No matter who. Now, he started this craziness. He started this craziness by saying he'd be the first senator to vote no, no matter what. If you don't like the way that Justice Kavanaugh has been treated, then you can't reward Bob Casey by sending him back to Washington ever again. Listen, it's pretty clear -- it's pretty clear why I'm running for Senate. I'm running for Senate because the president did call and he said, I need you in the Senate. I'm running there because I want to help him because we want to show respect for our law enforcement in America once again. We want to take care of our veterans. No veterans should ever and will ever die waiting in line for health care in this country ever again. And we're going to support our military, those men and women who travel all over this world to make sure that we have the freedoms that we have and enjoy today and that our children and grandchildren will have that same freedom. We're going -- we're going to take care of our seniors. We're going to protect the unborn. We're going to put an end to illegal immigration. We're going to -- we're going to build the wall. We're going to build the way. And we are going to kneel when we pray and stand for the flag. No, Mr. President. No, Mr. President, we're not tired of winning in Pennsylvania. We're going to win again in November. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States. Thank you.  That's great, Lou. Thank you very much. He's a great man. He's really -- he'll be a fantastic representative for you in Washington, D.C. Got to get out and vote.  So while Lou is fighting for you, Bob Casey is fighting to protect violent criminal aliens. That's what he's doing. Bob Casey voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities that released thousands upon thousands of illegal alien criminals and vicious gang members to prey on Pennsylvania streets, to prey all over this country. He'll do it. For example, the sanctuary city of Philadelphia, can you believe this? Could you believe that one? That one I didn't expect to be hearing -- released a criminal alien who was recently convicted of raping and battering a very young child. Bob Casey defends criminals while attacking our brave ICE agents. He wants to get rid of ICE. Let me tell you about ICE. These are tough, brave people that love our country. These are people that MS-13, they're afraid of ICE. They don't like seeing ICE. And if we don't have ICE, you'll pay a big price. These are great people. These are great people. Lou Barletta and the Republican Party will always stand for the heroes of ICE, Border Patrol, and our great, great law enforcement. These are great people. Bob Casey even voted against Kate's Law, named for Kate Steinle, who was gunned down by a five-time deported illegal alien, should have never been in our country. Bob Casey puts criminal aliens before American citizens, always has. By the way, how do you have such a liberal guy in the state of Pennsylvania? I'm trying to figure that out. Oh, he's banking on the name of his father. That's no good. Which is why he needs to be voted out of office. He has to be voted out of office. Casey also voted against tax cuts, against Pennsylvania coal. He joined the left-wing mob by voting against Brett Kavanaugh. If you want to save American lives, and save American jobs, and keep things going like they're going now, which is better economically than any time in the history of our country... then you need to vote for a pro-American patriot, and he really is a patriot -- he loves this country -- named Lou Barletta. Get out and vote please.  Also at stake in this election is Medicare. Democrats support a socialist takeover of health care that would totally obliterate Medicare. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and who have paid for it all their lives. And we will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. We're going to protect people that need help, people with pre-existing conditions. If you want security for your family, for yourself, if you want to continue our great economic boom like we've never seen before, but it's all very fragile, it can end, they want to end it, then you must go out and vote Republican. We need those votes in D.C. Since the election, as Lou has said, we've created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million people off of food stamps. We've added almost 600,000 new manufacturing jobs. They were supposed to be gone forever. African-American unemployment has reached its lowest level in history. History. That's in history. Think of that. In history. It's got its best level on unemployment. Think of that. African-American poverty has reached its lowest rate ever recorded in poverty. Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment has always reached historic lows, lowest in history. And as I always say -- I'm sure you've heard it, I hate to say it again because I know the number is going to be changing very soon, it's going to be even better, women's unemployment has just fallen to 3.6 percent, which is only the lowest rate in 65 years. I'm sorry. I keep saying it. I keep waiting for that number. I'm sorry, I'd like to apologize to the women, please. Sixty-five years, best in 65 years. I keep waiting for the new number to come out, because that will be history, too, just like African-American, Asian-American, Hispanic-American. Women, it's only the best number in 65 years. I'd like to apologize. But it's very true. Women. Women for Trump. Women for Trump. Remember how badly I was going to do with women? I said, am I so bad? Remember how badly? And then I got 52 percent of the vote! And everybody said he beat crooked Hillary. What happened? What -- remember that? Remember they put up these phony numbers? But you remember that? We did very well. Thank you to the women. We did very well. She never got it. The truth is she never got it. And she still doesn't get it. She's going around on a tour. Did you know this? Did you know that? I said, you should have saved it for the election. After years of being let down by Washington politicians, you now have a champion fighting for "
"Hello, Iowa. It is great to be back in beautiful Council Bluffs with thousands of hard-working, great, great American patriots. Thank you.  This is truly a historic week for America.  And you know what I'm talking about. Of course, yesterday at the White House, we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And today, Justice Kavanaugh took his seat alongside of Justice Gorsuch to defend your rights, your Constitution, and your God-given freedom.  And I want to thank our incredible Republican senators for refusing to back down in the face of the Democrats' shameful campaign of political and personal destruction. I especially want to thank an Iowa legend, whose backbone and leadership made this great victory possible, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, a very tough cookie, Chuck Grassley. Thank you, Chuck.  Thank you. Great man. Great person. From the very first minute Brett Kavanaugh was nominated, radical Democrats were on a mission to resist, obstruct, delay, demolish, and destroy -- they wanted to destroy that man, because they want to destroy me, too, but that's OK.  Me, we understand. Him, how can you do that? They want to destroy everything. That's all they're good at, resisting. Their whole campaign is to resist. Ours is to create.  What the Democrats did to Brett and his beautiful family is a national embarrassment, a national disgrace. You see what's happening and you see where they're coming from. You see. Including the phony protestors that got paid...  ... and now they want to protest because they didn't get paid yet, and they want their money.  So now they're going to really protest.  You see, that's a real protest. But in just four weeks, you will have the chance to render your verdict on the Democrats' outrageous conduct. On November 6th -- and you can do early voting in Iowa. Go. Just vote. Get it over with.  Vote. Go vote. Early voting started today. Right? Today. Early vote. Go do it immediately. Then you don't have to listen to me any more tonight.  In fact, if you did early voting already, go home. Have a good time. Thank you. We'll let some additional people from outside in, right? Nah, that's not going to happen. Got a lot of people outside. Look at this place. You believe it?  It never changes. Could I ask the cameras to just take a swoop of this room, please? Do you mind? Come on.  They don't like to do that. They don't like to -- they like to keep that camera dead set on me and about six people in the background. All wearing hats saying ""Make Farmers Great Again.""  And we're doing it. I shouldn't -- we're a little bit early. I shouldn't say it now, but we're going with E15 year round, OK?  I made that promise to you during the campaign. I made that promise to you during the primaries. Remember? I made that promise. Promises made, promises kept.  Right? On November 6th, you have the chance to stop the radical Democrats by electing a Republican House and a Republican Senate. So, we need the votes.  We have a majority that if one person has a cold, we have to hold the vote. I mean, can you -- we don't have -- it's like we hardly have a majority. We need votes.  Early voting is now underway. And you know that. You got to get out. Early voting, go out now and vote. Leave here now immediately. Is it still open? Yes, get the hell out of here. Early voting.  And in their lust for power, the Democrats have become totally unhinged. They've gone -- they've gone crazy. No, they've gone crazy. Now the Democrats -- or as some people would says, the Dims -- the Dims -- who says that? Lou Dobbs, the great Lou Dobbs. He says that, right? Sean Hannity says that. The Dims. Sean Hannity.  Judge Jeanine says that, doesn't she?  Laura -- Laura, how good has Laura been, right?  We got a lot of good people. Do we like -- do we like Tucker? I like Tucker.  He says that a lot. How about Steve Doocy? How about Ainsley, Brian? We got a lot of great friends.  The Democrats are even talking about doing really bad things now to Justice Kavanaugh. You know what they're talking about? And packing the courts with radical judges to overrule the will of the American people. It's not going to happen, folks. Not going to happen.  Last week, they're saying we'll impeach him. Impeach him for what? For what?  Besides that, I have to go first, right? Don't I have to go...  Even though we've done nothing wrong, other than create one of the greatest economies in the history of our country...  That will be interesting. You get impeached for having created the greatest economy in the history of our country. The best job numbers in the history of our country, just about, right? The greatest trade deals, which we've just finished, in the history of our country.  The biggest regulatory cuts by far already in less than two years, bigger than any other president during their entire term or terms...  The biggest tax cuts and reforms -- you got a lot of money back -- in the history of our country. But the Democrats have become too extreme. And they've become, frankly, too dangerous to govern. They've gone wacko.  They've gone so far left that they consider Pocahontas to be a rational person. No, it's crazy. Elizabeth Warren.  Oh, I hope she runs. I hope she runs. Then we can finally get down to the fact as to whether or not she has Indian blood. So far, she's not doing too well. Her mother says she has high cheekbones. That's why.  And she's gotten a lot of advantages by falsely claiming what she's claiming. So I hope she's one of the finalists. But I don't want to knock too many of them, because maybe by doing I'll knock them all out early and I'll actually end up somebody that's -- like, that's got some talent. That wouldn't be good. So we have to be nice and quiet.  I should be really quiet, really, really, quite on the bad ones. On the bad ones.  Like, we won't talk about Cory Booker, who ran Newark into the ground.  We won't talk about Da Nang Dick...  ... who tried to convince people for 15 years that he was a great war hero. They were going down left. They were going down right.  Right, you know who that is? Blumenthal. He said they were going on my left, they were going down -- he was in Da Nang Province. Except the one problem. It's hard to be there, because he was never in Vietnam, but these are minor details.  And then he gets up. He goes, I demand total honesty and transparency. I'm saying, what's -- he wants honesty. Great war hero. He's a great hero.  Yeah. Right, how about -- how about Senator Feinstein? That's another beauty.  That's a beauty. Did you leak the documents? Well, what, what? No, I didn't do it. Did we leak? Did we leak?  No. No. No, we didn't -- did you ever see -- no, she goes no. He just said, no, we didn't leak.   And I think they're talking about Feinstein. Can you believe that? Now, was that the worst body language, honestly? In other words, did she leak it? A hundred percent.  No, no, I don't want to get sued. Ninety-nine percent. See, now I can't get sued. Now I can't get sued.  You don't hand matches to an arsonist, and you don't give power to an angry left-wing mob. And that's what the Democrats are becoming.  They would turn our country so fast into Venezuelan -- and Venezuelan is not doing too well, folks. If you want to drain the swamp, you must defeat the Democrats, so you're going to have one hell of a swamp.  Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving. And America is winning again like never before, because we are finally putting America first.  The national unemployment rate has fallen to 3.7 percent. You believe that one?  3.7 percent, the lowest in 50 years, five-oh, 50. And it's going better. It's going better. Iowa's unemployment rate is 2.5 percent, among the lowest in its history that we can find. And by the way, we need people helping you. We need people coming in. We need people to run the farms. We're going to have people coming in. But they're going to come in legally, and they're going to come in through merit, through merit. It's called the merit system.   And we've built the wall -- we're building the wall. We've started. A lot of it's getting done right now. We got $1.6 billion. Another $1.6 billion. And another $1.6 billion. I want 'em to give us the money so I can build it -- we can build it in a year. But we've done a lot of it. It's going up right now.  But, you know, the Democrats feel that that's one thing we really want, we got our money for the military, $700 billion. We got our money to help us out with the opioid crisis, $6 billion.  But when it comes to the wall, they feel we want it so badly, but we keep getting big chunks and we keep building that wall. And it's under construction. And we're going to get it finished sooner than anyone would believe. And if you could get me some Republicans, we'll get it done quickly. Quickly.  I mean, when I have to ask Nancy Pelosi and Maxine Waters...  ... Maxine Waters, can we build a wall, Maxine? No, I don't want that wall built. She doesn't want a wall built. Can we build it? How about -- how about Pelosi? We want to build a wall. No, I don't want that wall built.  Look, Iowa manufacturing jobs are growing at the fastest rate in more than 20 years. And if you remember...  ... the last administration, without mentioning names, the last administration said manufacturing jobs, they're dead. They're gone. We have 600,000 have come back since the election.  Six hundred thousand. More Americans are now working than ever before. Think of that. At this point today, this day, we have more Americans by far working -- right now working than have ever worked in our country before. Isn't that great? That's a big number. That's a big number.  Today I kept another major promise, as I said, to the people of Iowa and Nebraska and other countries.  Wait. Hey, wait a minute. I got to do that again. I got to do that again. I love Nebraska. You know we won Iowa, we won Nebraska...  But they said, sir, you're speaking in Iowa, but we'll have some people from Nebraska there. What the...  Like I said, Nebraska...  OK, so -- and we have both. By the way, we have both great governors here.  And I did that just in case. So, ready? I'm going to go Iowa first, then I'm going to go Nebraska. I just want to see who the hell I'm speaking to.  OK? Because that was a little shocking what I just heard. So I'm going to go -- I'm just curious, OK? Iowa.  Nebraska.  Unbelievable. So they said, sir, you're speaking in Iowa, there may be a few people coming in from Nebraska. I don't think that's right. Great going, fellas. Great going. I'll tell my staff, great going, fellas.  Doesn't matter. We love both. Who cares, right? Who cares? We love 'em.  All I know is you've got a lot of farmers in both, right?  And my administration is protecting ethanol, all right? That's what you want to hear.  Today, we are unleashing the power of E15 to fuel our country all year long. Not eight months. All year long.  The Dems will end ethanol. You know that. They're not going to approve ethanol. They will take it away as -- we'll try and make it, like, so they can't do it to -- but they will find a way to take it away if you give them rights. You better get out there and vote for Republicans.  We've also achieved another historic victory for Iowa farmers and ranchers, by replacing the job-killing NAFTA with an incredible brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, the USMCA. But if Democrats take control, they will try to reverse our amazing progress and plunge our country into gridlock, frankly, into poverty, ultimately into chaos. That's what's going to happen.  And we've never had it like it's been now. We've never had it like it is now. Look at all the money you people are making. What are you going to do with it?  Democrats want to raise your taxes, impose socialism, dismantle law enforcement...  ... eliminate ICE...  ... and get rid of American borders. You want to get rid of the borders, right? You won't have a country.  And I've been saying this, and I mean it. Democrats are the party of crime. They are. Republicans are the party of safety. We are also the party of jobs, jobs, jobs.  Now, we're thrilled to be joined tonight by a number of terrific Republican leaders. Iowa Congressman Steve King...  Where's Steve? Where is he? Where is Steve? Where is he? I wish he could get a little bit more conservative. Can you believe this guy? He may be -- we're all -- he may be the world's most conservative human being.  Thank you, Steve.  And I supported him long before I became a politician. Do I have to use that term? Am I a politician?  Thank you, Steve. And another great, great gentleman, so much help to me, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry. Thanks, Jeff. Great job. Thank you. They're always with us. They are -- those two, always with us.  Another friend of mine, got to know him during the primaries, got to know him during the election. We took this state by storm. He helped. But I did even better than him. You know, you still need a -- you still need a product, right? But we did great. And we love the people of Iowa. We took Nebraska equally.  By a lot. By a lot. That wasn't close. Iowa GOP Chair -- friend of mine -- Jeff Kaufmann. Thank you, Jeff.  Thank you. Thank you, Jeff. Great job, Jeff. Get ready, Jeff. We're coming back soon, Jeff. And from Nebraska...  ... where's Tom Osborne, huh? Where is he? Where's Tom Osborne?  And I don't know Tom Osborne. All I know -- it's ""Tom Osborne,"" right? All I know is for years all he knew how to do is win, win, just win.  I mean, how good a coach was that guy? You know, there's a guy -- again, I don't know him, never met him. But it's called no talk, all action. Isn't that nice?  Now, what you did every year, you won. Better get going, Nebraska.  But we have a governor who's done a fantastic job. He's so into so many different things, including cutting your taxes, and we have him with us, Governor Pete Ricketts. Pete?  Great guy. Great. I think they like you, Pete. Vote for Ricketts. That's November. Right? Vote for Ricketts. He's got an opponent that doesn't have what you need, but still you never know. You got to get out there and vote, right, Pete? You have a vote. Great job, Pete.  And Congressman Don Bacon...  Incredible guy. Great job, Don. He's always there. He's always there, Don Bacon. He's always there. Thank you, Don. Great job. Appreciate it. Every time we needed him, he's there. Thank you.  And Nebraska GOP Chair Dan Welch. Thank you, Dan. Thanks, Dan. What a great group. And I am especially thrilled to introduce a person just to come up for a second to say a couple of words, because she has become a real star in the Republican Party and in politics. Kim Reynolds, she fights every day for the people of Iowa. And she always delivers and -- wow, does she have my endorsement. She's incredible. Kim, please come up. Kim Reynolds.  Kim Reynolds. Thank you so much. Oh, my gosh! This is amazing! Thank you all for being here! This is incredible! Welcome back, Mr. President, to the great state of Iowa. And on behalf of all Iowans, I want to say thank you, thank you for cutting taxes for hard-working Iowans, for eliminating senseless regulations that stifled innovation and jobs, for standing strong with Justice Kavanaugh and appointing conservative judges to the court! Thank you. Thank you for USMCA and for KORUS. And, Mr. President, thank you for year-round E15! Our farmers thank you. Iowans thank you. And we are grateful. Promises made, promises kept. The Midwest has a partner in the White House with President Donald Trump. Woo! It is an incredible honor to serve as the 43rd governor of this great state. And my story is the Iowa story. It's a reflection of the opportunities that exist here, where a small-town girl, daughter of a factory worker and farmer, who waited tables, checked groceries, never gave up on her dream of getting a college degree, is standing before you today as the first female governor of the state of Iowa. I understand the challenges that everyday Iowans have faced because I've faced them myself. And that's why I'm proud that we focused on cutting taxes, expanding and growing jobs and wages and opportunities, addressing Iowa's health care needs and creating strong and safe communities. Iowa is working. The Midwest is working. And we're getting things done. We're recognized as the number-one state in the country, second lowest unemployment, third best managed, wages are going up, taxes are going down. Our budget is balanced. And we're going to keep Iowa moving. We need your help. We need -- Republicans need your help. We need your support. And to do that, we have to show up. We have to go vote. And if you do that, I promise you, Republicans up and down this ticket are going to be a partner for our great president, to keep the Midwest and moving forward and to keep the United States of America number one! God bless you! God bless the great state of Iowa and the United States of America! Wow. Good energy. That's what you need, good energy. Thank you, Kim. Great. By the way, Kim's opponent this November is a radical Dem named Fred Hubbell. He's got some problems. He's weak on crime, weak on borders, doesn't want any. Only wants to massively raise your taxes. He wants to take away your ethanol. What I'm giving you, he will take, very quickly. Wants to devastate your farms and businesses with an avalanche of job-killing regulations that we just got rid of. Everybody get out and vote for Governor Reynolds on Election Day. Finally, I want to introduce another great Iowa Republican, Congressman David Young. When you said, David -- he's a great guy -- he's another one, fellas, he's with us, he's with us all the way -- when you said, David, to Congress you voted to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, tax care of our veterans -- our veterans, we love 'em. Veterans' choice. We got veterans' choice. After 44 years, we got veterans' choice. He voted -- thank you very much. He voted to secure our borders, stop the visa lottery horror show. Can you imagine it? This is legislation. They put names in a bin. We picked names. Do you think we're -- they're putting their finest? We get these people -- a lottery, can you believe? We want a merit system. We don't want a lottery system. We want a merit system. And we're going to get it. And we're on our way to getting it. Need a few more votes. We got to get some Republicans. And he voted -- and he -- believe this is somebody -- he's not into the American military, but we are. We are really into the American rebuilt military. But David is a true champion of the military. He loves our military. He loves our vets. David, get on up here, David. Come up. Come here. Remember this. A vote for David is a vote for me and our agenda to make America great again. David, come up. Thank you, Mr. President. Wow. This is incredible. Thank you for showing up tonight. Thank you, Mr. President. It's such a pleasure to have you in Iowa. For years, presidents have made promises about E15 year round. We've got a president who delivered, and he did it. Thank you for keeping your promise, Mr. President. Yeah! Look at the economy, 4.2 percent growth, 3.7 percent unemployment rate across the country, 2.5 percent unemployment rate here. Incredible things are happening, folks. Allowing hard-working Iowans to keep their hard-earned dollars. Opportunity, the American dream. Thank you, Mr. President. Rebuilding our military and signing into law the largest pay increase for our military in almost 10 years. Thank you, Mr. President. Securing our border, Mr. President. Thank you. And thank you for getting us out of that bogus Iran deal. Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Mr. President, for finally moving our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem in Israel. And, Mr. President, you are looking out for veterans. Thank you for that. Hey, folks. Elections are about choices, right? We can keep moving forward, or we can allow Nancy Pelosi and her hand... and her hand-picked candidates to take us backwards. We cannot go backwards to higher taxes, more government, a weaker military, and the failed policies of the past. I need your support. We need your support. Talk to your friends. November 6th. Vote. Go to davidyoungforiowa.com to volunteer. Thank you, Mr. President. God bless you. God bless this great country. God bless Iowa. God bless you. Thank you, David. A vote for David's far-left opponent, Cindy ""Tax Me""... Remember that name, Cindy ""Tax Me"". It's a very good name, actually, for her. I guess it's actually Axne. But we call her ""Tax Ne"". That was so easy. I didn't hear that one, but I don't know if anyone's thought of it, but that's like a natural. Is a vote for the radical agenda of Pelosi and Schumer and, of course, Maxine Waters. ""Tax Me"" opposed our massive tax cuts. That's why her name. She was born with the right name. And she wants a socialist takeover of health care, which is going to destroy our entire city. Cindy Axne is totally controlled by Pelosi and the extreme Washington liberals who are bankrolling her campaign, totally bankrolling her campaign. If you want to stop Nancy Pelosi from becoming -- can you believe this -- the speaker of the House? Then you need to vote for David Young, who is a terrific, terrific guy. Terrific guy. And you also need to vote for a great friend of mine, who really through just force of will got us to put up millions of dollars to build a dam to stop your flooding in a very important part of Iowa, Congressman Rod Blum. Great guy. And I have to say, Rod is fighting to reform welfare, reduce crime, and continuously cut your taxes. Rod's opponent, Abby Finkenauer -- who the hell is that? Who is that? Is an extreme liberal who supports mass amnesty. Anybody like amnesty? For illegal aliens, wants to raise your taxes through the roof, and wants to take away your health care. So you got to vote for Rod Blum. Got to vote for David Young. You've got to vote for these two characters over here who have been there. We don't even bring them up, because they're leading by so much, I said, I'm not going to waste your time. But get out and vote anyway, just in case, right? Just in -- you never know. You never know. A majority of House Democrats have already signed up for a socialist health care plan that would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for 20 million seniors. Republicans want to protect Medicare. We're protecting it for our great seniors who have earned it and paid for it all of their lives. Right? And we will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. We are going to protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. The Democrat agenda is radical socialism and open borders. The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE. What a great idea. You know why? Because the people that work for ICE, they love our country. But they're very tough people. Guess what? That's what we need to take care of MS-13, all the gangs. You don't want to do it. You don't want to do it. Even you don't want to do it. I don't want to do it, either. They're fantastic people. They love our country. And to them, it's a day in the office. For other people, they want no part of it. They want to turn America, these Democrats -- and that's what they want -- into a giant sanctuary for criminal aliens and the MS-13 killers... that we're getting out of the country, by the way, by the thousands. Thousands. They've taken over towns in Long Island. I mean, literally. It could happen to your community. They've taken over towns in Long Island. And we go in, and we, like, liberate the towns. Can you believe -- towns that I grew up right next to. I know every one of them. And they go in and they go in and they have no fear and they take care of the situation, they get them the hell out of there or they put them in jail. They either send them back where they came from or they put them in jail. And they liberate -- literally, can you imagine we're saying this about places in our country? They liberate towns and small cities in different places of Long Island and others. They liberate them, like we're taking over a war and we get liberated. How sad. How pathetic. And if we didn't have ICE, it wouldn't happen. It wouldn't happen. So we have to cherish our law enforcement. We have to protect our law enforcement. The Democrat immigration policies aren't just wrong, they're lethal. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens that sneak into our country. And Republicans stand proudly with the brave men and women of ICE and Border Patrol and our great law enforcement, including your great local law enforcement. If you want to have safe communities, if you want to have a border, then you must organize. Remember this. You don't have a border, you don't have a country, folks, OK, let's face it. Let's face it. You know, we're doing things that are incredible outside, but things are happening you won't even -- you'll see. You'll see what happens. You take a look at what's going on with North Korea. They were ready to go to war with North Korea. Now we're getting along very nicely. It's working out very well. Look at Iran. Before I got there, Iran was going to take over the Middle East in like 12 minutes, right? Now they're trying to survive. You got riots in every city. So if you want to really just keep up what we're doing and keep this country -- we have tremendous potential. You know, we're doing well. But we have tremendous potential to grow incredibly. When we get rid of these horrible, disgusting trade deals, with China, over the last five, six years, we've been losing $300 billion to $500 billion a year, billion. Nobody even knows what the hell it is, it's so much. It's ending. It's ending. It's ending. And it's not just China. It's not just China. And what we do is we protect wealthy countries for nothing. For nothing. Would you say Saudi Arabia is wealthy? Yeah. Right? And I said to the king, you've got to pay. I'm sorry. You've got to pay. We're going to protect, you've got to pay. Get the money. You've got to pay. You've got to pay! I have friends in the audience, they're good businessmen. They're looking like, absolutely. They -- but you're not a politician. A politician doesn't -- you got to pay. Japan is an immensely wealthy country. Great people. Prime Minister Abe just had a big election, won by a landslide. He's a friend of mine. But I said, look, we're protecting Japan. They're making a fortune. They're sending us millions of cars. We're not allowed to send them -- they have barriers. We can't send them cars. But they send millions of cars into here. They pay essentially no tax. And we subsidize their military. When I say subsidize, I'm not talking about like for 2 percent. We pay for 70 percent of their military. Nobody knows this! And I said to the prime minister, who's a great guy, I said, how come? And he honestly says, nobody ever asked. When we straighten out this, we have so much potential. And there are many countries like that. I'm not looking at just those two. There are many, many countries like that. And you know what? We should protect people that can't protect themselves and they're getting s ed. It's OK. It's OK. That's OK. And we're now building by far the strongest military that we've ever had. And the reason is... And the reason is that when you have the strongest military ever in the history of this world, nobody's going to mess with you. These big guys know it over here. These people know it. I don't want to use our military. But this is a very dangerous world. This is a sick world, in many ways, OK? It's a very, very -- I mean, I see things as president that you don't want to know about. The things that I see, you don't want to know about. We have to be on guard for some really treacherous people that are running some places -- and we are so prepared you have no idea. We are so prepared. We are so prepared. Because this election is about security. And it's also about prosperity. Since the election...  SEAL Team is right. Who's SEAL team? The good-looking guy over there, that's good. SEAL Team, they're great. But since the election, we've created -- nobody believes this. If I would have said this when I came to Iowa many times or when I came to Nebraska many times... With your governor, with your governor, if I would have said that we would create 4.2 million new jobs, the fake news media -- look at this, it's like the Academy Awards back there... Look. The fake news would have said, oh, what he's saying, oh, it's -- oh -- well, guess what? We created 4.2 million jobs just since the election. And... We lifted over 4 million people off of food stamps. How good is that? We've added nearly half a million manufacturing jobs. African-American unemployment has reached its lowest rate ever recorded in the history of our country. And African-American poverty has reached its lowest rate ever recorded. And Kanye West, who gets it... And Big Jim Brown, how do you think he'd do in the NFL today? Bum, the greatest. But they're coming over to the White House very shortly. We're going to have a little lunch and talk about it. But they get it! How do you -- how do you win when you hear those numbers? Because the Democrats for 100 years have been promising African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, Asians. They've been promising everything, nothing happens. Here we are, less than two years, the best employment numbers, the best numbers they've ever had in virtually every category. Every category. Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment rates have also reached all-time lows. How do you -- how do you beat us in 2020? Governor, do you have any idea? What would you say? What would you say? We're going to do a great job. But, yeah, but we have the best numbers ever recorded. Those debates I look forward to. See, I said we were going to do that. Remember? What the hell do you have to lose? Remember that? Right? I said we were going to do it. But now we've done it. So how's somebody going to do better? But we're going to do much better than even that. Women's unemployment rate just fell to 3.6 percent. Which is the lowest in more than 65 years. The only reason to vote Democrat is if you are tired of winning. We have finalized a new fair trade deal for South Korea. They don't even talk about -- that's a big deal. We just did a deal, manufacturers, farmers. The deal was so bad. That was a Hillary Clinton deal. She said -- no, no. She was secretary of state.  She made a statement today, they're doing a tour, her and her husband or something. And she made a statement, some ridiculous -- I said, well, that's why she lost the election. She just doesn't get it. She's never gotten it. But she never got it -- so she said, we will create 250,000 jobs. And everybody was excited. Unfortunately, she was right, but it was created in South Korea, not in our country. Just another deal, check it off. Just another horrible deal. We will create 250,000 for -- you know if she said for South Korea, at least it would have been honest, right? But we've totally renegotiated that. Under the guise of massive tariffs -- I said, if you're not going to do it, we're just going to put tariffs in, that's it. And they said, let's do it. Come on. Let's do it. Let's make a decent deal. And we've opened it up for your farmers, for your manufacturers. We've taken a horrible deal and made it a good deal. Made it a good deal. And now we're opening up or we're going to do something where we do even better, but we're going to open up Japan for trade and the European Union, which is brutal. They are brutal. Sounds so nice. So nice. The European Union. Sounds so nice, right? They are brutal. But that's because they've had their way. They formed in order to take advantage of us on trade. Now, we protect most of those countries. European Union, NATO. We protect most. So Germany is paying 1 percent. We are paying 4.3 percent to protect Europe. Explain that one to me, OK, please? The numbers are horrific. But I've gotten $44 billion last year, more paid into NATO by other countries. And this year will be more than that. That's why I say, our country has such incredible potential. There's so many -- I mean, I could go through deal -- I could go through so many things, just the same thing. They were going to build the embassy in Israel. As you know, we got approved, right? On my"
"Hello, Kansas, thank you very much. Hello, Kansas. Thank you. And I'm thrilled to be here with all of my friends on this truly historic night. This is a historic night. I stand before you today on the heels of a tremendous victory for our nation, our people, and our beloved constitution. Just a few hours ago the U.S. Senate confirmed Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court, and I proudly signed the judge's commission aboard Air Force One just before landing. And this Monday night, at 7:00 pm in the East Room of the White House, We will perform the swearing in ceremony for soon-to-be Justice Kavanaugh, a great man. And he will sit proudly alongside Justice Neil Gorsuch, who's doing a great job to uphold your sacred rights and to defend your God-given freedom. And I want to thank our incredible Republican senators for refusing to back down in the face of the Democrats, shameless campaign of political and personal destruction. Since the moment Brett Kavanaugh was senate, and you remember this, we made an announcement and since right from the moment we announced, radical Democrats launched a disgraceful campaign to resist, obstruct, delay, demolish, and destroy, right from the beginning. Brett Kavanaugh is a man of great character and intellect. He's a totally brilliant scholar, who has devoted his life to the law, he is a loving husband, a devoted father, and a faithful public servant, and he always has been. What he and his wonderful family endured at the hands of Democrats is unthinkable, unthinkable. In their quest for power, the radical Democrats have turned into an angry mob, you saw that today with the screaming and the shouting, not from the 200 people or less that were --  You know what? Those people, they couldn't fit in the front row, look what we have here today. They threw away and threw aside every notion of fairness, of justice, of decency and of due process. Nobody's seen anything like it. What each of you will have a chance in just four weeks to render your verdict on the Democrats conduct at the ballot box. Got to vote, got to vote.  On November 6th, you will have the chance to stop the radical Democrats, and that's what they've become, by electing a Republican House and a Republican Senate. We will increase our majorities. We need more Republicans, we need more Republicans. Over the past few weeks, every American has now seen the profound stakes in the upcoming election. You now see it. We have been energized, we have been energized. if Democrats are willing to cause such destruction in the pursuit of power, Just imagine the devastation they would cause if they ever obtained the power they so desperately want, and Greg. You'll going to have other Supreme Court justices places to be filled it could be three, it could even be four, it could be a lot. And if you allow the wrong people to get into office, things could change, they could change, and they could change fast. And we're not going to let that happen, we can't let that happen. It could go very quickly, it can change very fast, we can't let that happen. You don't hand matches to an arsonist and you don't give power to an angry leftwing mob, and that's what they've become. The Democrats have become too extreme and too dangerous to govern. Republicans believe in the rule of law, not the rule of the mob. We're doing a hell of a job of doing it, we're draining the swamp and we want to defeat the Democrats conducively. So under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, America is winning because we are finally putting America first, we are putting America first. Yesterday it was announced that unemployment has fallen to 3.7%, the lowest  unemployment rate in 50 years, lowest in 50 years. We've created nearly 600,000 jobs in the last three months alone, think of that, 600,000, and if I ever said that, when I was campaigning, the fake news media would go, I'd say, ""Impossible."" They are fake. Manufacturing confidence is at an all-time high. Confidence, very important, all-time high. And we have the best economy in the history of our country, the best.We're taking care of our veterans, protecting our great seniors, and rebuilding America's military might like it hasn't been built before. But if Democrats take control, they will try to plunge our country into gridlock poverty and chaos, and that's what's going to happen, it can change. The Democrats want to significantly raise your taxes. Essentially, they want to impose socialism, Venezuela, dismantle law enforcement and eliminate our borders. They want to have nice, open borders, no way. Bill. The Democrats have become the party of crime, they have become the party of crime, think of it. Republicans are the party of law and order, and justice. And we really have become, even more so, than ever before the party of opportunity and wealth, and that's what's happening with creating wealth for everybody. Whether it's small businesses big businesses or people wanting great jobs, that's what's happening. And you know wages? Right now, for the first time in 19 years, wages are going up for people, and jobs. you can choose the job you want for the first time. Many years. So we are thrilled to be joined by a number of your state's terrific Republican leaders. And  I have to tell you that I wasn't supposed to be here because, you know, this is such a big day. This is such a big day. I was supposed to call you, they said, ""Do you mind calling Kris Kobach and Steve Watkins? Do you mind telling them? That because of the fact that we are, today, getting this great, great, talented, wonderful Supreme Court judge. They said, ""Could you call the people of Kansas and tell them we won't be able to make it tonight.?"" I said, ""I don't have the courage to do that. I don't have the courage"" I said, ""I don't have the courage."" They call me, they said, ""Sir, we're signing the next United States Supreme Court justice."" They always say, you've heard it. The biggest thing a president can do, they've always said, is Supreme Court justice the biggest, and some of it none. We've had two in less than two years, I guess, you know, some of  some presidents have it. But it's the biggest thing you can do so they said, ""Sir, do you mind canceling Kansas tonight? We're going to have -- "" I said, ""No way I'm canceling Kansas. No way. No way."" I had that phone working, I had that phone working on that plane, I had that signature going on the plane, and here we are. And by the way, you think this crowd inside is big, you could see the crowd that's outside. We just put up big movie screens but I think this is better, right? This is better. I want to thank Congressman Roger Marshall, has been a great friend. Roger has been a great friend, and a great friend also, Ron Estes, great person. He helped us so much with the tax cuts, with regulation cuts, with so many things that we've passed that nobody thought would be possible, would be possible. So thank you both very much. Where are they? Where are they? Thank you very much, fellas, thank you. Fantastic And also, I want to thank somebody who's done a fantastic job, GOP Chair Kelly Arnold. Kelly? Great job. You know why a great job? Because we won this state by a lot, right?  And after what I just did for you with the new deal with Mexico and Canada, I think we should double it up, I think we should double it up. USMCA, USMCA. I refused to call it NAFTA because NAFTA was such a horrible deal. You didn't even realize it, that was so --  50,000 plants and factories emptied out, millions and millions of jobs lost, so we negotiated a new deal, and I said,  ""There's no way of calling it NAFTA 2, USMCA. And we opened up -- we opened up agriculture, we opened up dairy, we opened up a lot of things and everybody's really happy. I don't know how they're doing in the other places but they're really happy. So congratulations. Congratulations. And we also signed a great new deal with South Korea and the farmers are going to be benefiting there too. And we're working -- Right now they  want to make a deal. I said,  ""You're not ready to make a deal yet."" We're working on a deal with China. We'll see. Well see. Well see. Look, they've been hitting us hard for a long time. We've never had a president that did anything about it. $500 billion a year, that's a big one. They take out. So right now we're doing extremely well with China, and let's see what happens. Maybe we'll do it and if we don't we're going to be in even better position, you understand that. So we'll see. I also want to thank a man of incredible integrity and class, your governor, Jeff Collier. Jeff? Jeff? Where's Jeff? Jeff is a great guy who's doing a really incredible job and thank you, Jeff. But I didn't know Jeff. I told Jeff, I said, ""Nothing personal, I just didn't know you because when I backed Chris and you have one hell of a governor."" And I think we have to talk about bringing him down to Washington or something. We talked about it. Great governor, great man. We're also joined by Kansas Attorney General Derek Schmidt. Thank you. And president of the Kansas State Senate Susan Wagle. Susan. Thank you, Susan. I'm so proud that our Campaign Manager Brad Parscale, you know Brad, Brad Parscale. Where's Brad? Guy's like 7 feet tall, so you can't miss him. Thank you, Brad. Our chief, our chief you know him, our Chief Operating Officer Mike Glassner. You know Michael? He's fantastic right from the beginning. Thank you, Michael. They all come from Kansas. They all come from Kansas. I guess that's how we win, you get from Kansas you wouldn't lose them. Along with our amazing Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. He is doing a great job. He's headed over to North Korea. This guy travels, boy you got to do that to be a good one. You know, if you're home a lot you're not doing much of a good job. We're doing a great job with North Korea we're doing a great job with everybody. Mike Pompeo from Kansas. Great man. And also here with us tonight is your next lieutenant governor, Wink Hartman. Thank you, Wink. Thank you, Wink. So a man that's been with me from the beginning, he's tough, he's strong and I hated that he ran because I would have loved to have brought him into my administration, effectively loses, I'll bring him into my administration in two seconds. I hope he loses because I want him so badly. But don't do that. Don't you. Don't do that. I was angry when he did it. I said, ""Don't do it."" ""Sir, I want to be the governor of Kansas. I love my people."" I said, ""Don't do it. Don't do it."" I was very unhappy. I was very, very unhappy. I said, ""Don't do it."" Then he went out and he's been winning and he's been doing an incredible job. But he does, he loves this state. He loves the state so much and I want to introduce the next governor of Kansas, Kris Kobach. Well let me just say on behalf of all of Kansas, President Trump, welcome to Trump country. It is such an honor and a blessing to have President Trump here in the city where I grew up to support my campaign in the state that we all love. And I want to give President Trump credit for something really important, it's something he and I have worked together on. We've worked for a number of things but the most important is stopping illegal immigration.  I'm so glad that America has a president who gets it and knows that illegal means illegal. I want to tell you a quick short story about illegal immigration. I began working on this issue when I was an adviser to John Ashcroft at the time of 9/11. I was there during 9/11, and we all remember how the world changed. But let me tell you something that you may not know. All 19 hijackers came into this country legally on temporary visas. Five of them became illegal mostly by overstaying their visas. Four of those five were stopped by state and local law enforcement for speeding violations. They were illegally in the country at the time but the cops didn't know it, and so they could -- they didn't make an arrest even though they could have if they'd had that information at their fingertips. Now get this. Three of those for pi -- the three of those for illegal aliens that they could have arrested were pilots. So if they had made those arrests they could have stopped 9/11 from happening. Those numbers have shaped my career. The gravity of that has never left me and I will not and I know President Trump will not allow our immigration system to be used again as a weapon to harm the American people. Stopping illegal aliens is not just about jobs, it's not just about crime. i's about our nation's security, and that comes first. And illegal immigration is an issue in this campaign for governor. Did you know that my opponent Laura Kelly voted to continue allowing sanctuary cities in Kansas? She did. She did. Look it up. It's in the roll call vote. When I am governor, God willing, sanctuary cities will end in this state. Laura Kelly also voted to allow illegal aliens to continue getting welfare benefits. So while we're struggling to pay our electricity bill to pay higher taxes, we're meanwhile giving taxpayer dollars to illegal aliens. Is that fair? It's time to stop illegal aliens from getting taxpayer dollars. It's time to put Kansans first, not illegal aliens. There's another big issue.  There's another big issue that President Trump and I have both been concerned about. Voter fraud. Because of the law that I drafted in the Kansas legislature passed, Kansas now has the most secure election laws in America. Photo ID creates trust in our elections. If you need a photo ID to cash a check or to buy the kind of Sudafed that works, you probably going to need one to go cast a vote in an election. And proof of citizenship too, proof of citizenship. Every time an alien votes, every time an alien votes, it cancels out the vote of a U.S. citizen. The Democrats and their socialist friends, they claim they care about voter cancellation or voter suppression, but they don't care about us citizens votes being canceled out. It's time for other states to require proof of citizenship too, just like Kansas. One more, one more topic. Taxes. Thanks to President Trump, our federal tax burden is much lower. But in Kansas, our state taxes are the highest in the region. It's time to cut our state taxes here in Kansas. When I am governor, the first bill that I want to sign is one that passes along the Trump tax windfall to the people of Kansas. $137 million. And on top of that, you've got thousands of Kansans being taxed out of their own home because of property tax appraisal increases, they can't afford to live in the home they wanted to retire in. When I am governor we will put a 2$ cap on property tax appraisal increases. To put it simply, I want to do for Kansas what President Trump has done for America.  We've got a big election, a big election ahead of us on November 6th. It's a point of choice, not only for America but a big decision for Kansas. Tonight, President Trump is here calling on us to get out there and vote, calling on us to stand up, the time is now. To stand up for the proven principles and constitutional rights that have made this country great and made this country strong. And the time is now, that we must reject the political correctness that the progressives and the left are constantly putting on us. And stand up, and stand up for the time-tested values of hard work, faith in God and the United States Constitution. Thank you, President Trump, for making America great again. And now we're going to make Kansas great again. Thank you. What a job he did for me, I'll tell you, what a job he did. He's going to be a great governor. He will do the job for you. He is going to be a great, great governor. He is a tireless champion for border security. He'll fight for you every single day. He doesn't stop. He'll protect your family, he'll protect your children. Now his far-left opponent is Laura Kelly. Voted to raise your taxes. And she supports giving public benefits to the illegal aliens [Inaudible. And Laura Kelly earned an F. And never even heard of an F. An F-rating from the NRA. An F. I assume that means that she's not too big on the second amendment, is that way? How would that be? Everybody get out and vote for my friend Kris Kobach on Election Day, please. Finally, I want to introduce another terrific Republican candidate, your next congressman. Get out and vote. I need him in Washington. Steve Watkins. Steve is a great veteran. He's a patriot, and a proud West Point graduate, that means he's very smart. Steve, come on up. Hey. Kansans can do anything. I'm proof of that. I. Grew up a couple of miles away. And here I am standing next to the leader of the free world. And not just any leader, a truly great one. You see, when I left -- when I left Kansas I went among other things I spent eight years in war zones, eight years with my boots in the sand of Iraq and Afghanistan. Eight years. And in all that time -- all that time I really just learned a couple of things, I know for sure that I have seen the devil, but I have also seen fighters, Donald Trump is a fighter. He fights. He fights for America first, he fights to keep our borders secure, he fights for jobs he fights to those  approaching retirement. He is a fighter and we are so honored to have him here in Kansas. He moved the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. Yes. He likes -- he likes appointing pro-constitution judges to the bench. And he is tough on China, Iran, and North Korea. Do other things, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh. Now Kansas, Kansas, you know, might be a little partial, but just think how much more he could have accomplished if he were a Kansan. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for all that you do, for Kansas, and for America ,and for this world. We're so glad you're here. Thank you, sir. Good man. Good man. And a vote for Steve is a vote for me and our agenda to make America great again. You know that agenda. A lot of hats. A vote for Steve's opponent, his name is Paul Davis. He's not good, he's not good, you know that, is a vote for a radical agenda of Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer, and the legendary Maxine Waters. Here in Kansas, his opponent Paul Davis voted time after time to raise your taxes and fees. And he voted to give public benefits to illegal aliens at work. If you want to stop Nancy Pelosi from becoming speaker of the house, Nancy, let Nancy Pelosi. Woah, you better get out and vote for Steve Watkins, please. A majority of House Democrats have already sponsored a socialist takeover of healthcare. The Democrats' plan would eviscerate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for 20 million seniors. We want to protect Medicare we will as Republicans protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and paid for it. And we will always protract Americans with pre-existing conditions. We will take care of our great Americans with pre- existing conditions. Today's Democrats have embraced radical socialism and open borders. If you don't have borders, you don't have a country, folks, you don't have a country. Every single Democrat. In the U.S. Senate has signed up for the open borders and it's a bill, it's called The Open Borders Bill. What's going on? And it's written by -- Guess who? Dianne Feinstein. Remember the leaking, right? The leakin' Dianne Feinstein. ""Did you leak? Did you leak, Dianne? Dianne, did you... "" ""No, no, no, I don't. No.No. I don't think. Wait. Did we leak? No, he said no, no we didn't leak."" Oh. Was that the worst body language you've ever seen? Was that the worst? ""No, I didn't leak. I didn't leak."" No she didn't leak. That's what you're dealing with. If the Democrats bill ever becomes law, a tidal wave of drugs and crime would pour into our nation like never ever before. Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities that release violent predators and bloodthirsty killers like MS-13 into our communities. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens And Republicans stand proudly with the brave men and women of ICE, border patrol, and law enforcement. They wanted the fund ICE. Can you believe it? You know how tough  ICE is? When MS-13 sees ICE coming, they say, ""Let's get out of here."" But you know what? They can't, because they get caught, they get thrown, and they get thrown the hell out of the country. They can't. They don't like that. The Democrats want to get rid of ICE. So these are great Americans. By the way, ICE, great Americans. They happen to be tough people. I think we need some tough people, they're tough. MS-13 doesn't like ICE and that's why I like ICE. But they really are, they're great Americans, they love our country and they're not treated properly,  they're not treated properly. I've seen it in Long Island. They go into a community. I've grew up in that vicinity, I know every community out there. And they go into these communities and these are rough,  rough people, MS13, how they even come in and we stop them at the border but there's so many here from before us, from before us, and our laws are so bad and we're getting them changing stuff. That's why we need more Republicans. But they come in and -- Long Island, we send ICE and they get in there and they get them out, and it's like we're liberating a town. In this day and age it's like in a war, where you know, you're a foreign invader -- a foreign invader, finally, is being taken out. They're liberating a country or liberating a city or town. These people are liberating these towns, and you know the story, and you've heard it, it's all over. They cut people up because they don't want to use bullets, it's too fast and it's not painful enough. And then when I said. ""Animals!"" Nancy Pelosi said, ""How dare you speak that way about a human being. How dare you.""  Right? This woman just said it to me. She screamed out of the word animal, so how dare you call them. They're human beings and not -- these are animals folks. These are animals. And we need law enforcement, and we need ICE and we need border patrol. These are great people. And if your community has a problem, don't worry about it just give us a call, we'll take care of it. Democrats are also fighting to give welfare and free healthcare to illegal aliens paid for by you, the American taxpayer. Thank you very much. Republicans believe that the public benefits must be protected for the truly, needy Americans. Americans that need help, not illegal aliens. If you want safe. If you want a border. If you want America to remain a sovereign great country then you must organize, mobilize, register, and vote Republican. We need more Republican votes. This election is about safety. And it's also about prosperity. Since the election, we have created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted almost 4 million Americans off of food stamps. And we've added nearly one-half million manufacturing jobs. Think of that. If I ever said that during the cam -- look how many. Oh, man, that you are getting more and more people back there. Look how many reporters. Look. Wow, that's a lot. Wow. Wow. You know I call it? I call it the Academy Awards. That's the  Academy Award. You know we're doing great. Our new polls just came out. I had a poll, Rasmussen 51 or 52, they don't report that, they never report. But you know -- and It's much higher than that because some people -- I don't know if I'm happy about this, they say when they don't want to talk about it that means they're voting for Trump, I don't know, am I supposed to be thrilled? But we'll take it, right? Well take it. That's what happened in 2016. A lot of people didn't want to talk about it and the pollsters puts it down. OK, so -- but now they learned, they learned their lesson. When they don't talk they had Trump voters. All action. All action, no talk. African-American unemployment has reached its lowest level in recorded history. African-American poverty has reached its lowest rate ever recorded. By the way, by the way, can you imagine during the debate if I have those stats, the best unemployment number ever for African-Americans. Best in terms of poverty ever in history for Africa. How do you win? How do you beat us on that? It's only habit. It's habit. Because for a hundred years, African-Americans have gone with Democrats but now they're changing, and they're changing fast and they're coming for us. Thank you, Kanye West. Thank you, Jim Brown. Big Jim Brown. Thank you, Iron Mike. I could go through -- We have so many people. Big Jim Brown. We could use him right now in the NFL, right? Great people. Hispanic- American and Asian-American, likewise, their unemployment rates have also reached all- time historic lows. The lowest. And women's unemployment just fell to 3.6%,  the lowest rate in 65 years. And we are, as of right now, the world's No.1 producer of crude oil and natural gas. Energy. No. 1.  No. 1. And since I took office, the value of Americans mutual funds and pension funds has increased by $2.7 trillion. That's your money, that's your money. And your 401(k)s. You all look like a bunch of geniuses, thank you, Donald, very much. You're all great investors, right? You're all great investors. That's all good. We've picked up 11 -- I would say 10, I was saying seven. We picked up now 11.7% Larry Kudlow said it to me the other day, said, ""Sir, you're a little lower in that number.""  I said, ""Really?"" I was using $10 trillion. It's now $11.7 trillion in worth. Eleven. You know what that is? And China was catching us rapidly before I became president. And right now we are going so fast, we are the fastest developing country in the world. Can you believe that? Boom. Fastest in the world.  And that's why I say, ""We have a midterm coming up, an election."" Historically whoever's president -- I don't know why this works, but whoever's -- I guess people get complacent. You know, ""Hey, we just won the presidency."" Now two years later we have an election, so they are complacent and then we always win in the next one, which is, as you know, the presidential election. We always... So far I'm dreaming of those candidates. I see those candidates before my eyes. Every night before I go to sleep, sometimes while I'm sleeping I love them so much. Cory Booker, Pocahontas, Pocahontas. I've got more Indian blood in me than Pocahontas, and I have none, I mean, sadly I have none, but I have more than she does. They said to her, ""Why do you say you're of Indian heritage?"" Well, my mother told my high cheekbones that's the answer. Do you have any documentation? No, we don't. ""Oh, I see. Your high cheekbones."" Well I have high cheekbones too. Hey, maybe I'm an Indian and I'm going to do very well. But think of it. This is her reason. The whole thing has been  but that's OK. You know what, I want to be careful. I'm taking out so many of these people, I'm hitting them so hard that they're disappearing and I don't want to do that because I make it somebody that's actually good to run against me and that would not be good. I'll take out all the easy ones and maybe I'll get stuck with somebody that's actually good,  but I don't see any on that side. Well, Sleepy Joe Biden, who -- who ran for president two or three times, you know they say only twice. I think I remember a third time in there. But he had 1% with an arrow pointing left. That means 1% or less. And then Obama took him off the trash heap while he's one of the people. Remember he challenged me to a fight? ""I'd like to take him behind the bar."" I love that. That would be great. That would not last long. That would not last long. That wouldn't last long. Go like this. He's down. And he'll never get up. He will never get up. He will never get up. Now I got to leave their candidates alone. Somebody actually said, ""You're hitting these candidates really hard."" He's a non-candidate, you know, Don Mandic. He's a Da Nang Dick. He's Da Nang Dick. That's  Blumenthal. He talked about, ""When I was in Da Nang province in Vietnam and I was fighting up the hill in Minner going left and right of me they're dying. They're being struck by bullets but I went back to their rescue. I went back and I got them. And then I made a second attempt and bullets are going left and right and over my shoulders and they're hitting my men."" And I used to think, ""Wow, this guy is a pretty brave guy.""  And then I found out he's a fraud. He never was in Vietnam. And he stopped campaigning because there was no way you could win. No way. And because it's Connecticut, where I guess only a Democrat -- Can you believe this? That's why Connecticut's such a mess right now. Only a Democrat -- Wait, you're going to see, it's a mess. General Electric just moved out. That doesn't help. But Da Nang and Dick and then I see him yesterday talking about a man who's No. 1 at Yale, has like this perfect record. The most incredible record. One of the reasons I picked him. He's like a perfect person in Da Nang Dick, who -- who said he was a great war hero and he never saw the country. This wasn't like saying, ""Yeah. I was in the army."" This is -- this is the guy that said he was charged up Da Nang. Da Nang province right down Da Nang. He's up that hill and he's taking bullets left and right, and he never saw the place, he was in the reserves cell. Remember that. And he said, ""I demand honesty."" This is true, exact words. I demand honesty, integrity and I demand that there's no lying going on, and I'm saying, ""Wait a minute."" I said,  ""That's the guy that lied about -- in the worst -- in the history of our country. If you look at it,  he lied. And this is one of the people, how bad. And then you have the Feinstein and you have all the others and you look at what's going on. You don't want those people in office, folks. You've got to have great Republican. And compare that with what you've seen with John Cornyn, who asked a great question to Dianne and got her a little off base, like you know John Cornyn of Texas. And Lindsey Graham, who did such a great job. Right. Did a great job. How good was Lindsey? How good was Lindsey? And you know what? He was speaking from the heart. He was speaking. And by the way, took a week but that extra week was a great thing because it showed no corroboration, no nothing. By the way, no nothing. How good was Senator Susan Collins yesterday. Really, really great. And Chuck Grassley. I'll tell you what, Chuck was great. He's got to be very happy with what we did on trade. Right, Chuck? From Iowa, great state. And Mitch McConnell, how good, how good? He was tough and smart. He was great. He worked hard and we got ourselves the finest legal mind. One of the finest human beings. And again what his family took. The horror that they had to endure by these people like Blumenthal and Cory Booker who was a disaster as the mayor of Newark New Jersey. What they had to take was a disgrace. The only reason to vote Democrat is if you're tired of winning. All right. Tired of winning. We want to win, win, win. Never get tired of winning. After years of rebuilding other nations we are finally rebuilding our nation. you see what's happening. And I just left the United Nations last week, and I can tell you, and everybody else can tell you, and even the fake news can tell you, America is respected again. To create more jobs and rising wages. Republicans passed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history by far. We also passed Veterans Choice, 44 years, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor, and we pay for it so they don't have to wait in line for 25 days, 38 days, 14 days, six days. They go out and they see a private doctor, they get themselves a good doctor. We paid the bill. It's frankly so simple but it took 44 years to get it done. We got it done. I'm going to getting it done. I'm good at getting it done.Now we also passed, this is 45 years, the VA accountability law to insure anyone who mistreats our veterans will be held accountable, you are fired, get out. And we've secured a record, $700 million and the next year $716 billion to rebuild our military and to give our brave warriors the largest pay raise in almost a decade. And at my direction, The Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American Armed Forces the space force, a very serious stuff. That's happening quickly, it's very serious, that's where it's at. You know you have to know where it's at. Doesn't sound right, but it's right. That's where it's at. Both defense and offense that's where it's at. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear de"
"So this is supposed to be a Democrat state. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. They have a very big surprise coming, don't you think? Very big surprise. Hello, Minnesota. Great state. Thank you. And I'm thrilled to be back in the heartland with thousands of hard-working and truly great American patriots. You know that. In less than two years of Republican leadership, America has achieved the biggest comeback in our history. True. Jobs are booming, wages are rising and the number of Americans working right now today has reached an all-time high in our history. We are defending our great Second Amendment... taking care of our wonderful veterans, who we love and respect... and our military will soon be more powerful than ever before by far. But the radical Democrats want to take it all away. They want to destroy our prosperity. We've had great prosperity. You see what's happening. You don't want your 401(k)s being cut in half, and if you vote Democrat, that's what's going to happen. They want to erase our gains and plunge our country into a nightmare of gridlock, poverty, chaos and, frankly, crime, because that's what comes with it. So we're just five weeks away from one of the most important congressional elections in our lifetime. You see what's happening in Washington right now so you know how important it is. You see what's going on. By the way, look back there, look at all that media. Look at all that media. If we could ever get them on our side, we'd win for a thousand years -- for a thousand years. On Tuesday, November 6th, I need your vote, I need your support to stop radical Democrats and to elect proud Minnesota Republicans. And we have some great ones right now up for election. This week I announced another historic victory for our nation. We're replacing the job-killing disaster known as NAFTA... with a brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. It's called the USMCA. That works, right? USMCA. I didn't want to use NAFTA. That has been a disaster for our country: 50,000 plants and factories moving out, millions and millions of jobs lost, one of the worst trade deals ever. I actually know one that's worse, but I won't tell you, because we're going to be doing something with that too. But NAFTA's been one of the great disasters of all time and now we have a great and fair deal. We have a fair deal, and that's what we want. Great for our workers and really great for our farmers. It's about time. We're opening it up. The barriers are coming down. And this is tremendous for Minnesota. This is tremendous for Minnesota. And you've waited for a long time. And by the way, we've got plenty coming. You know what's going on with China? They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. But I say they're not ready yet. They want to make a deal, but I told them, ""You want to make a deal, but you're not ready yet, so we'll talk later."" We have secured landmark protections for the medical innovations being produced right here in your great state. You have great medical in your state. And we've removed unfair trade barriers for our proud Minnesota farmers and our dairy producers like has never, ever been done before in our country. America is winning again and America is being respected again all over the world right now, and we're going to keep it that way forever. It's called America first.  You even have people sitting behind the flag. That's... It's OK. Great people. And by the way, you got thousands of people outside and you have thousands of people who I just saw in a lovely room, but I said, ""Next time, you have to get here a couple of days earlier."" Right? The only reason to vote Democrat is if you are tired of winning. That's really it. Because you're winning. You're winning a lot. There's never been an administration that in already less than two years -- but can you believe we all did this together? We're coming up on two years, can you believe it? There has never been an administration, with you, that's done so much in so little time. Two years. No administration's come close. None has come close. And we've got a lot coming. If Democrats take over Congress, the stock market will plummet. They will -- it will plummet. You know, there's a reason for it. Every day we hit new highs, new highs. I think we had 103 new highs. Think of it. All time. That means jobs. To a lot of people, it means great 401(k)s. It means great -- but to a lot of people, it means jobs. It's jobs. Your 401(k)s will be devastated if Democrats take control and our political system will grind to a really messy halt. And you see what's going on in Congress right now with one of the most respected people, potentially, hopefully Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Man...  What they're putting him through, and his family. His family is incredible. What they're putting them through. Democrats want to raise your taxes. They want to restore job-killing regulations. There's no administration ever that's cut as many regulations. And we have regulations. We want clean water. We want crystal, clear air. We want beautiful environment. We want. But you don't have to have regulation that makes it impossible for our country to compete with other countries, and that's what we're doing. The Democrats want to cripple law enforcement. They want to get rid of ICE. How about ICE? ICE, they're tough and they love our country, but you need tough ones. They're tough. They love our country. They get rid of MS-13. They get rid of these gangs. You wouldn't believe it. They throw them the hell out or they bring them to jail. The Democrats embrace socialism. We're not going to be Venezuela -- you see what's happening -- and open our borders to deadly drugs and violent gangs. And I've said it and I'll say it as many times as you want to hear it, and it's because of their policy: The Democrats are truly the party of crime, because that's what happens. Open borders, that's what happens. And the Dems are willing to do anything to hurt anyone to get the power they so desperately crave. All they know is how to do -- you know what the words are -- they want to resist, they want to obstruct, they want to delay, demolish, they want to destroy. That's what happens. That's what happens. And just take a look at what's going on. Democrats have been trying to destroy Judge Brett Kavanaugh... since the very first second he was announced. And he was announced for one simple reason: He is an incredible intellect, an incredible person, an incredible talent. He's been an incredible judge. Because they know that Judge Kavanaugh will protect, uphold and defend the Constitution of The United States as written. But all you have to do is look at the polls over the last three or four days and it shows that their rage-fueled resistance is starting to backfire at a level that nobody has ever seen before. Nobody's ever seen it. Up 11, up 10, up 14. Nobody's ever seen this before. We love it. Do we love it? We love it. Because people see what's happening and they don't like it. The people of Minnesota and the people of America are going to reject the Democrat politics of anger and destruction, and they are going to vote to keep making America great again, greater than ever before. And in two years, they are going to vote to keep America great, right? Keep America great. We're almost at that point already, but I can't -- I love ""Make America Great,"" but I can't use it in two years. They'll say, ""What have you been doing?"" right? ""What have you been doing?"" Oh, boy, I tell you, it's been a while. We have had fun, right? We've had fun. This is -- and they don't even correct me when I say it. They don't even correct me. Fake news media. But this is... I mean, look at this stadium. Look, look. As an example, thousands of people in a room next door, thousands and thousands of people outside trying to get in, this big stadium is packed, always. In all fairness to Minnesota, in Las Vegas, in Missouri. You know in Missouri...  Thank you. I love you too, but you're not my type. No, but -- hey, Missouri. They had 44,000 people outside of a big arena. 44,000 people. Las Vegas. We went to -- West Virginia was incredible. West Virginia. Tennessee. Tennessee, and you see how far Tennessee went up over the last couple of days. It's incredible. Missouri, wow, have we done great. Josh, Josh. So we're thrilled to be joined by a number of your terrific Republican leaders and I just want to introduce somebody that's been such an incredible help to me in getting your tax cuts, I mean, not so bad. How about this? How about this? The Dems want to raise your taxes. We want to lower your taxes. We don't want crime. Crime's OK for them. They want open borders. How the hell do we not win this thing in a landslide every time? How do you... They're for crime and high taxes. We're for low taxes and no crime. I don't know. Somehow I don't think I would have been a very good politician on the other side of this equation. But a man who really has been helping me a lot, he's a tremendous force in Washington, he's respected by everybody, Congressman Tom Emmer. Minnesota House Speaker Kurt Daudt. Thanks, Kurt. Your state's next attorney general, Doug Wardlow. Your next governor -- I hear he's doing very well -- Jeff Johnson. We're also joined by the next United States senator from Minnesota, Karin Housley. Karin. So, Karin is running against a far-left Democrat, Tina Smith, who nobody knows who the hell she is. Who is she? She was appointed. She took a wacky guy's place. That guy was -- he was wacky. Boy, did he fold up like a wet rag, huh? Man. Man, he was gone so fast. He was gone so fast. I don't want to mention Al Franken's name. OK? So I won't mention it. He was gone -- he was gone so fast. It was like, ""Oh, he did something, oh, oh, oh, I resign. I quit, I quit."" Wow. He was gone and he was replaced by somebody that nobody ever heard of. Her name is Tina Smith. Honestly, you know, I do this stuff for a living. I'm not sure I have ever heard of her . The fact is, there's no reason for me to have heard of her, because she's never going to vote for us. She'll always vote for Schumer and Pelosi...and, of course, the legendary low-IQ Maxine Waters. Low-IQ person. She'll be with Schumer, do whatever he wants. ""What would you like me to do? Should I vote for higher taxes?"" ""Yes."" ""Oh, I want higher taxes. Should I vote against the wall?"" Which is happening, folks. She wants to vote against the wall. She voted against the wall.  So we are building the wall. We started it. $1.6 billion. Now we got another $1.6 billion and we just got another. But I want to build it at one time, fast. But we're making a lot of progress on the wall. A lot of progress. I'd like to do it a lot faster. I'm good at building. And Tina voted for deadly sanctuary cities. Karin... Karin, do you promise you will not be voting for sanctuary cities, Karin? OK. Good. She wants to keep crime out of Minnesota. That sounds like a good platform, right? Tina Smith would rather protect violent criminal aliens than loyal American citizens, which is why Tina Smith, that nobody ever heard of, needs to be voted out of office. She got appointed, I guess. And Tina Smith is voting against Judge Kavanaugh. Can you believe that one? So, he was number one at Yale, number one at Yale Law School. I think she's looking for a better student.  Finally, I want to introduce two incredible -- by the way, Karin, come up, please, will you? You really do go off script, don't you? Jeez. Thank you so much for telling everybody. And he said ""Tina Smith"" way too many times. We need to say ""Karin Housley"" a lot more. Thank you. Vote for her. Vote for Karin. Now for the people that we're here for. Congress is very important, and I'm here to support Congressman Jason Lewis, who you know. He's a friend of mine, who has worked so hard for us and so hard on your Second Amendment, which is under siege, and so hard on cutting your taxes and regulations. So, Jason, thank you. Come on up, Jason. And the next representative from Minnesota's 1st District, Jim Hagedorn. Come on up, fellas. Welcome to Minnesota, Mr. President. Now -- now, everybody in this room knows Minnesota loves President Trump. But I will tell you, in 2020, when he comes back here and takes this state, the whole world's going to know Minnesota loves President Trump. And you know what else Minnesota loves, Mr. President? They love tax cuts that let you keep more of your money. Now, in the final analysis, that's really it, isn't it? I mean, growth is great, 4.5 percent growth, more job openings than job-seekers, after-tax income up 6 percent in one year. But in the final analysis, whose money is it? It's yours. You ought to have it. Minnesota loves manufacturing, mining and energy production in the 2nd District. Minnesota loves our farmers now, thanks to the president, who have free trade and fair trade. Right here in Rochester, Minnesota is very proud and loves health care; the kind of plan that you choose, not the plan that government bureaucrats choose for you. And that's why we repealed the Obamacare mandate and the president signed it into law. And -- and one more thing, Mr. President. Minnesota loves your judicial appointments. That's right. Minnesota loves your appointments to the lower courts, they love your appointments to the appellate courts, and Minnesota loves your appointments to the Supreme Court, including Judge Brett Kavanaugh. My friends, my friends, that's what's at stake in this election: due process, the presumption of innocence, the rule of law, private property, in other words, the Constitution of the United States. And if Nancy Pelosi becomes speaker of the House, you can throw that all aside. But you know what? The radical resisters have to come through Minnesota first. And this is where it stops. I'm not going to let it happen, Jim Hagedorn isn't going to let it happen, and President Donald J. Trump is not going to let it happen. Thank you all. On to November and let's win there. Thank you. Wow. Does Rochester, Minnesota, and southern Minnesota love this president? Absolutely. Boy, think back... Think back where we were just two years ago. Our nation's future was on the line. Had we not won that election, we would have lost the country the way the forefathers put it together. And by the grace of God, and we are grateful and proud, Mr. President, that , and thank you for what you're doing for our country. We are. I just want to give the president a quick update on the Democrat Party here in Minnesota. They've moved far to the left like the rest of the Democrats across the country. We actually have a guy running for governor who wants to make Minnesota a sanctuary state. We have -- we have two people running for the United States Senate on the Democrat Party. They love late-term abortion and they believe in gun control. And we have all these congressional candidates, including the guy I'm running against, who think that we should have socialized medicine, single-payer. Does that make sense for the Mayo Clinic, Rochester? No, no. They want to resist. They want to replace. They want to take us back to Obama and then some. Are we going to let that happen? Heck no. No. Not going to let that happen.  Mr. President, we're going to work tirelessly. And because of your support and leadership and your endorsement, I want to go out to Washington and serve as a conservative reinforcement to partner with you to keep moving America in the right direction. Thank you, Mr. President. Wow. Wow. Good talent. So, Jason and Jim are both running against extreme Democrats. Jim's opponent, Dan Feehan... supports a total government takeover of health care, which drives your costs right through the roof and the health care is lousy, by the way. Oh, is that so? And he wants to make Minnesota into -- true -- a sanctuary for the criminal aliens and for gang members. That's the people -- they will come flooding up here as soon as you do it. It happens every time. Jason's opponent, Angie Craig... Who the hell is Angie Craig? -- also wants to take away your health care. And she refuses to support Enbridge Pipeline. You know all about that. That would bring more than 8,000 jobs to Minnesota. And you know we've really opened up Minnesota. You see what's going on with the mines and the miners and the ore. Worst of all, a vote for Dan Feehan and Angie Craig is a vote for Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House. Can you imagine Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House? Don't do that to me. I didn't buy into that. Neither did you. If Democrats take charge, Maxine Waters will also... Now, listen to this one. She's going to take over Financial Services in Congress. Can you believe it? Maxine Waters. That's one of the most powerful committees in Congress. If you want to stop Pelosi from becoming speaker, if you want to stop Chuck Schumer from becoming majority leader... and if you want to stop the radical Democrats from running Congress, then you need to vote Republican. You have to get out there on November 6th and vote Republican. You've got to get it -- and vote for these people. These are great people. A Democrat-controlled Congress would also pose a grave threat to Medicare. You know what they're doing with Medicare? They'll destroy it. The majority of House Democrats have cosponsored a socialist takeover of health care that would obliterate Medicare. Their plan is called Medicare for All, except they have no money. But it's really Medicare for none. Their plan would rob American seniors of the benefits they have paid -- and they've paid these benefits and they've paid so much money for their entire lives and you take it away.  Thank you, darling. Love these people. These people are so great. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors, who have earned it and they've paid for it. And we will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. We're going to take care of them. Some of the Democrats have been talking about ending pre-existing conditions and some people have -- you know what I say? We'll get a little more money from China. It'll be just fine. OK? It'll be just fine. We'll be just fine. We're going to take care of pre-existing conditions, folks. Remember that. The lead sponsor of the Democrats -- think of this. The health care takeover, who is the lead sponsor? I've been reading so much about him. He did predict I was going to win, by the way. I will say that. That's the only thing he's gotten right in a long time. Keith Ellison. Did you know that? No, he did. That's right. He was on a show the day after I announced. On June 16th, I came down the stair with Melania -- who's right now in Africa, our first lady. She's doing a great job. Doing a great job for the people of Africa. Amazing. But Ellison was on a show the day after I announced and he looked at two people, the hosts, he said, ""You know he's going to win, don't you?"" And they smiled. One laughed. They spoke. They thought I was just doing this for fun. You think this is fun? You think this... This is a lot of work. It's a lot more work than anybody knew. And that's the last time he's been right, but I'm glad he was right about that. Ellison is the number two official in the entire Democrat Party and he recently marched in a parade wearing a shirt that read, ""I do not believe in borders."" Oh, that's wonderful. By the way, you don't have borders, you don't have a country, folks. You don't have a country. Keith Ellison's Democrat Party embraces radical socialism and open borders. The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE. They want to unleash violent predators and ruthless killers -- and you know it. Somebody would say, ""Oh, gee, why is he saying that? That's not"" -- it's true. Like MS-13, near our schools, near our families and into our communities. No good. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans proudly stand with the brave men and women of ICE, Border Patrol and law enforcement, our police. Great people. They do an incredible job. My administration has also reformed our refugee program to protect American communities like you have in Minnesota, where you're being treated very unfairly, and to protect your families and your taxpayer dollars. If you want security, if you want a border, then what you have to do is immediately go out, think about it, get your friends, get your neighbors, get your workers. You've got to go November 6th, vote Republican. That'll do it. That'll do it. We need the votes. You know, I keep hearing we have a majority. If somebody has a cold, we don't have a majority. If somebody's not feeling great, we don't have a majority. It's like -- it's like the saying -- that's why we're getting the wall by hook, by crook, we're getting the wall, but it's so difficult. These guys want to stop it. They want to say -- you know, it's interesting. We've got $700 billion for the military, which is, you know, many, many, many times -- we've got $716 billion for the military. We are rebuilding our military. But to get money for the wall, their whole life is trying to obstruct the wall because they know we want it. But you know what? It's not working. I'd like to do it a lot faster, but it's not working. We're getting the money. You think it's easy? Not easy. But we're getting it built and it's already going up in San Diego and lots of other places along the border.  This election is about safety and it's about prosperity. Since the election, we have created over 4 million new jobs. The media will tell you there was no way we could have said that during the campaign. Nobody would have believed it. And we've lifted 4 million Americans off of food stamps. Think of that. You know, when you do that, you save a lot of money and you also make a lot of people really happy. When you think about it, right? We've added nearly a half a million new manufacturing jobs. Remember, ""You need a magic wand. You'll never do that."" I said, ""What happens? We don't build anything anymore?"" And we have companies pouring into our country and they're coming to Minnesota. They're coming to a lot of states. But we have companies. They're all coming back. They want to be where the action is. They're all coming back. They're all coming back. The auto companies. I was with Prime Minister Abe two days ago. He said, ""Many of our auto companies are coming back."" I said, ""No, no, that's not good enough. All of them have to come back. All."" And he's going to do that. They're all coming back. They've already started. You look at Michigan, what's going on in Michigan, where they're coming back so fast -- but they're coming back to Ohio. They're coming back to Pennsylvania, South Carolina, North Carolina. And they're coming in to a place called Minnesota. Do we love Minnesota? 1972. You know what that is, right? That was the last time -- and boy, we came, like, this close. One more speech up here and I would have won this state. I came -- do you remember? I said, ""I think I'm going to win Minnesota,"" and everyone said, ""No, no, it hasn't been won since 1972."" Is that right? 19 -- right? The Congress , right? Yeah. 1972. It hasn't been won. I said, ""No, look at the crowds. They love it. We're going to take care of Minnesota. We're going to stop what's happening that's so unfair in Minnesota."" And then on election night, I said, ""Let's go to Minnesota,"" but they already scheduled for a great place, a great state, Michigan. That's another one hadn't been won in many, many years. I went to Michigan. We had 32,000 people in Michigan at 1 o'clock in the morning. It was already Election Day. So I had to skip Minnesota. I felt so badly because one more speech -- I could have showed up at 3 o'clock in the morning maybe. I don't know. But we're going to win. We're going to win Minnesota. And you see that just by this crowd. Look at this crowd. This place is... So something I'm very proud of, African-American unemployment has reached its lowest rate ever recorded. African-American poverty has reached its lowest rate ever recorded. Think of those two sound bites. The lowest unemployment, the lowest rate of poverty. So think of this: How does your African-American, how do you vote for somebody else? I've done more for them in two years. African-Americans are coming up and they're saying, ""Mr. President, thank you. Thank you."" And their median income is the highest. But not only for African-Americans, for Asian, for Hispanic. Hispanic unemployment is the lowest it's ever been. Think of it. Asian unemployment, the lowest it's ever been. People with no high school diploma -- that's a very important group of people to me -- it is by far the lowest it's ever been. Women I'm failing with. I am failing with women. It's only the lowest in 65 years. Sorry. Sorry. I thought it would be history by now, because I've been saying African-American, I've been saying Hispanic, I've been saying Asian, I've been -- and women, it's only the lowest in 65 years. But I thought by now, it would be OK.  Got a lot of energy, this one over here. She's got a lot of energy. Thank you, darling. Thank you. Sixty-five years, not bad, but soon it's going to be in history, I predict. My administration has taken the toughest-ever action cracking down on China's trading abuses. We have to stop it. And we have a very good relationship with President Xi. I have a very good relationship. But we can't allow what's happened over so many years to continue happening. They've been taking $500 billion, with a B, out of our country and rebuilding China. And I said, ""We can't do that anymore. I'm sorry. I'm sorry."" For years, China has been draining us, taking our factories and building up their country with our money, and at the expense of our workers and our companies. And we're not going to have it. No more. And not only China. Many countries. Look, many countries. We defend countries that are very rich. They don't pay us or they pay us a small percentage. I mean, look, we get along great with these countries, but take Saudi Arabia. Would you say they have some money? So we defend them and they pay a small percentage. I said, ""Excuse me, King Salman"" -- he's my friend -- ""do you mind paying for the military?"" ""Do you mind? Hey."" They're paying for 30 percent. I said, ""Do you mind paying?"" ""But nobody has asked me."" I said, ""But I'm asking you, King."" He says, ""Great."" He said, ""But are you serious?"" I said, ""No, I'm totally serious. Trust me.""  And they'll do it. He said nobody's ever asked him. You're talking about -- by the way, you're talking about billions and billions of dollars. Japan, ""No, President Obama would never have asked. That's not his kind of thing. Not his thing."" Why would somebody ask to be paid back billions of dollars? Japan, very rich, very great country. I told you, Prime Minister Abe, great man. Just won a fantastic election. Big results. I have an -- an incredible relationship. I said to him, ""Listen, we're defending you."" We're doing a great job. They were sending missiles over Japan from North Korea. Because of me, those missiles aren't going over Japan anymore. There are no more missiles, no more testing, no more nuclear. We got our hostages back. We got the remains of our great heroes back, right? The remains. The remains are coming back. That was the most beautiful ceremony. Did anybody see that ceremony a month ago? So beautiful. And the remains are coming back. And what do I get? I get the fake news saying, ""Why isn't he moving faster?"" I just left -- what? -- three months ago. I had a meeting in Singapore. I mean, this has been going on for 75 years -- now let's say 25 years with the missiles and the nuclear -- but no president's done anything. It's -- it's like, three months. And they'll say, the all-time great, ""What's taking so long?"" I said, ""It's been three months and you don't have rockets and you don't have missiles and you don't have nuclear testing and we get all of our"" -- I mean, it's crazy. But here's what they say. So, they can't get me. One of them actually said -- a nice guy, a friend of mine. He actually said, ""Why is the president giving so much to North Korea?"" I said, ""I haven't given anything. What have I given?"" I haven't paid -- I didn't pay $1.8 billion for the hostages like Obama did... with Iran, remember? $1.8 billion in cash. Gave them $150 billion. So I haven't given. But I have a very good relationship with Chairman Kim. I have a very good relationship. So because of that relationship, let's see. I think we'll work something out. Maybe we won't. Who knows? It's a deal. Let's see. But so far -- so I'm -- when did I leave, like three months ago, three and a half months ago, maybe less? And they're saying, ""He agreed to meet,"" because they -- I didn't give -- so you know what I gave them? I agreed to meet. That's what they say. I agreed to meet. Is that a big deal? I agreed to meet. I asked the Democrats before -- you know, we were close to a war with North Korea, I'll you what. And my rhetoric was very tough at the beginning. It was really, really tough. In fact, they all said I'm going to cause a war with North Korea. I'm going to cause a war. And then with Putin of Russia, they said, ""He was too nice."" He was -- that was a great meeting. We had a very successful -- so they want me to get into a boxing match with him. I think I'd do very well. But with Russia...  No, no. It's the fake news. Fake news. They said with Russia, ""He was too nice. He was too nice."" With North Korea, they said, ""He was too tough. He was too tough."" And let me tell you, if I was really rough with Russia, they'd say, ""He was too tough. He was too tough."" These people are loco, I'm telling you. Loco.  People are crazy. Fake news. The fake news, everybody. They are fake. After years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation, right? To give our workers and businesses a level playing field, Republicans passed the biggest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country. Better vote for Karin. They want to take them away. They want to take them away. We've taken historic action to make health care more affordable and we've gotten rid of the soaring premiums. You know, the premiums on Obamacare -- nobody realized it. They were going up 116 percent, 138 percent, 200 percent. Through great management and great people, we've kept them down. We've mostly obliterated Obamacare, although we had it won except for 2 o'clock in the morning -- I say it again -- 2 o'clock in the morning and I was like -- I'm not going to do it. Two o'clock in the morning. But think of it differently: We didn't get one Democrat vote so we're stuck with it, but it's obliterated. And the big thing is, we got rid of the most unpopular part of Obamacare. It's called the individual mandate, where you have the privilege of paying a fortune so that you don't have to pay a fortune for horrible health care, right? So, the premiums in Minnesota this year are coming down by double digits. Think of that. And I don't even like this stuff, but while we have the remnants of Obamacare, we're working to make it much more affordable than you had. And to reduce drug prices, the FDA has approved a record number of affordable generic medicines. And that's not all. Drug prices are coming down. You might have seen last month where I called up some of the drug companies. I said, ""Folks, you just raised up the drug prices. You can't do that."" And they all reduced them. Do you believe it? That's when I said, ""I've a lot of power."" Pfizer, right? You saw that. Pfizer, Novartis, they raised their drug prices and I'm bringing them down. I said, ""What are you doing with raising them?"" ""I'm sorry, Mr. President, we'll reduce them immediately."" I said, ""Man, this is a powerful position. I never..."" First time in the history of drug companies that they've done that. They literally announced it. I called them the next day. I told them I was extremely unhappy and they said, ""We're going to reduce it."" Who the hell does that? Do you think Hillary Clinton would have done that?  I don't think so. I don't think so.  By the way, she or whoever it might have been, crazy Bernie, whoever they put in, they wouldn't"
"Hello, Mississippi, hello. Beautiful.  Well, I have to start by saying that 2020 is looking really easy, isn't it? I think the fake news media back there is starting to get it, folks. I think they're starting. They're starting to understand what's going on. And I'm thrilled to be back in this great state, with thousands of proud, loyal, hard-working American patriots. Thank you. In less than two years, we've achieved the biggest comeback in American history. That's what's happened. The economy is booming. Wages are rising. And more Americans are working today than ever before. Today -- ever before. Think of it. Now, just think of that. Today, we have more Americans working than we've ever had in the history of our country, right now, today. How great is that, right? We're defending our Second Amendment, protecting religious liberty, taking care of our great veterans... and rebuilding America's military like it hasn't been rebuilt ever before. This week, we made history again when I announced that we are replacing the job-killed disaster known as NAFTA with a brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. A good one. And it's a good one. We're calling it USMCA. You're going to like that name. That'll become a part of your vocabulary. USMCA. Companies aren't going to be leaving us anymore and firing everybody and sending their product back into the United States with no tax. That was what I wanted. You know, Mississippi, when they leave and they go next door and they fire everybody and they build the product and send it back and sell it to the same people that were buying it before -- no, we don't want to do that anymore. No we don't want to do that anymore. It's not a good -- that's not a good thing to do. Although there is a group called globalists. They think it's just fine. Not fine. They're globalists.  globalists. We don't like the thinking of the globalists. The USMCA is an incredible victory for our farmers, our ranchers, our factory workers, and our entire nation. America is winning again, and America is being respected again, maybe respected like never before, because we are finally putting America first. But exactly five weeks from today, all of this extraordinary progress is at stake. It is at stake. I'm not on the ballot, but in a certain way, I'm on the ballot, so please go out and vote. Go out and vote. On November 6th, you will head to the polls -- hopefully -- in one of the most important congressional elections of our lifetime. The only reason to vote Democrat is if you are tired of winning. A Democrat takeover of Congress will plunge our country into gridlock and chaos like you haven't seen before. It'll come to a halt. And I have to tell you, all of those people, with your savings accounts and your money piled up in your bank, it's all -- a lot of it's going to disappear, and it'll disappear really fast. Your 401(k)s -- I stand up all the time with great Americans. ""Sir, I'd like to thank you. My wife thinks I'm one of the greatest investors in the world. And two years ago, she thought I was a total loser, sir. Now she loves me so much."" ""Because my 401(k)..."" ""... has gone up 55 percent, sir, since you got elected! 55 percent!"" Ah, it's amazing. You can really get your wife to like you a lot when that happens. You've got to be really bad. I'll tell you. And that's happening. And it goes the other way, too. That happens. People are geniuses now. And we've helped. You know, we had probably -- and even the fake news would tell you -- the greatest victory in the history of this country in 2016. There's never been anything like that. The people came from the hills and the valleys. They came from all over. And they voted, voted, voted. And they love Trump, and they loved us. Because it wasn't me, it was all of us. It was all of us. And that's what's happening. That's what's happening. But it's all fragile. The Democrats will open our borders to deadly drugs and ruthless gangs. The Democrats -- and I say this -- and I've dealt with it -- the Democrats are the party of crime. And that's what it is, they're the party of crime. Radical Democrats want to tear down our laws, tear down our institutions in pursuit of power, demolish our prosperity in the name of socialism and probably worse... and abolish our borders in the service of globalism. There is nothing Democrats aren't willing to do, and you're seeing it day by day, and you've seen it more the last week than you've ever seen it before. And no one -- just think of this. No one under any circumstances is allowed to speak up if you're on this side of the equation. But guess what? We're speaking up like nobody has ever spoken up before. They want to get the power that they so desperately crave that was taken away from them. All of the Democrats know and all they really know how to do is obstruct, resist, demolish, destroy and delay. They've been trying to destroy Judge Kavanaugh since the very first second he was announced... because they know Judge Kavanaugh will follow the Constitution as written.  You know, for 10 years, I don't know him, I never met him, but I'd been hearing there's this guy named Brett Kavanaugh who is... who is like a perfect person, who is destined for the Supreme Court. I've heard that for a long time. And -- a lot of smart people. And first in his class at Yale. Top, top in his class at Yale Law School. He'd led, like, a life that's unbelievable. He's had no problems. They've never taken him out of restaurants. They've never -- this is like a person that everybody thought at the highest level on both sides, they said, ""Someday he will be a Supreme Court judge."" Right? He will be a justice of the Supreme Court. And all my life, I've heard that the most important thing that a president has to do as president is the appointment of a Supreme Court justice and... And I disagree. I think war. I think our military. I think peace. I think those things are -- you know, those things are pretty important, right? That's pretty important. They don't say that, but I say those things are pretty important. But I'll have to tell you, the appointment of a Supreme Court justice -- and I look at him, and I looked at the man that we appointed just before him, Justice Neil Gorsuch... who was put through the paces, but nothing like what's happening now. It's just crazed. It's crazy. What's happening now, they had gang rape. A gang rape. Many times. Well, that turned out to be false. So many different charges. Guilty until proven innocent. That's very dangerous for our country. That's very dangerous for our country. And I have it myself all the time. But for me, it's like a part of the job description.  Let it happen to me. Shouldn't happen to him. Shouldn't happen to him. What he's going through: 36 years ago, this happened. ""I had one beer."" Right? ""I had one beer."" ""Well, you think it was..."" ""Nope, it was one beer."" ""Oh, good. How did you get home?"" ""I don't remember."" ""How did you get there?"" ""I don't remember."" ""Where is the place?"" ""I don't remember."" ""How many years ago was it?"" ""I don't know. I don't know. I don't know."" ""I don't know."" ""What neighborhood was it in?"" ""I don't know."" ""Where's the house?"" ""I don't know."" ""Upstairs, downstairs, where was it?"" ""I don't know. But I had one beer, that's the only thing I remember."" And a man's life is in tatters. A man's life is shattered. His wife is shattered. His daughters, who are beautiful, incredible young kids -- they destroy people. They want to destroy people. These are really evil people. And then you see... And then you see the people that are doing it. I know every one. I could tell you things about every one of them. Da Nang Richard Blumenthal. This guy lied about his service. He didn't just say, ""Gee, I was in the service."" No. He said, ""I was in the Marines. Da Nang Province. Soldiers dying left and right as we battled up the hill."" This went on for 15 years when he was the attorney general of Connecticut. I thought he was a great war hero. And then it turned out he was never in Vietnam. He was in the Reserves! And I watched him two days ago. I watched him saying, ""We need the truth. If we don't have"" -- and here's a guy who was saying people were dying all around him and he was never there. And then he cried. When they caught him, he cried like a baby.  Like a baby. When Jimmy Swaggart cried, it was nothing compared to Da Nang Richard. Nothing. Jimmy Swaggart was nothing compared to -- he cried, ""Oh, oh, I'm so sorry, I'm so"" -- he only lied for 15 years. And now we get something. And now he talks about lying. And this man's not lying. So Blumenthal is a fraud. He's a fraud. And the reason he got elected is because in Connecticut it's impossible for a Republican to get elected. And I did well there. But you can't. He actually gave up the race. You'd thought he lost. You remember that? He, sort of, gave -- he stopped campaigning. It was over. And then he won by three points. And we have him in the Senate. And now he's this great honorable guy, because you know why? The fake news doesn't ever want to put that stuff on. They don't want to talk about it. They don't ever want to put it on. They're a bunch of fakers. And then you have Cory Booker, right? Cory Booker. Here's a guy who destroyed practically by himself the city of Newark, New Jersey. He was such a bad mayor. And see what he wrote himself about women. Check it out, folks. Check it out. Then he talks -- ""How dare you treat a woman like that."" Take a look at what this guy wrote. And I know about every one of them. I could go on and on. How about Feinstein? How about her? ""We need more time for the FBI. The FBI has to do a more thorough search. We had another woman just reported by a sleazebag lawyer named Avenatti."" Sleazebag. Sleazebag. We have -- well, it turned out even NBC, who's as bad as they get -- even NBC couldn't shield her with that interview. Did you see that interview? This woman had no clue what was going on. No clue. And yet she made the most horrible charges against a number one in his class at Yale, perfect human being, great father, great husband. This is a great person. And people are saying, ""Well, maybe it's true. And because of the fact that maybe it's true he should not become a United States Supreme Court justice."" How horrible is this? How horrible is this? So this is an important time for our country. This is a time when your father, when your husband, when your brother, when your son could do great. ""Mom, I did great in school. I've worked so hard. Mom, I'm so pleased to tell you, I just got a fantastic job with IBM. I just got a fantastic job with General Motors. I just got -- I'm so proud."" ""Mom, a terrible thing just happened. A person who I've never met said that I did things that were horrible and they're firing me from my job, Mom. I don't know what to do. Mom, what do I do? What do I do, Mom? What do I do, Mom?"" It's a damn sad situation, OK? But we better start as a country getting smart and getting tough and not letting that stuff right back there, all those cameras, tell us how to live our lives. Because they are really dishonest people. Not all of them, but damn well most of them. That I can tell you. Fake news. So that's something to think about, right? That's something -- think of your son. Think of your husband. Think -- I've had many false accusations. I've had it all the -- I've had so many -- and when I say it didn't happen, nobody believes me. But it's me. It's my job description. Mr. Trump, it's OK, you can say whatever you want. They can say whatever they want about me. It's fine, because we have the worst libel laws anywhere in the world. They can say anything they want, and we can't sue them, because if you're famous, you can't sue. Figure that one out. But to take people that are just outstanding and have had great lives, and that life doesn't mean a thing. And do you notice with the judge, they don't talk about his last 35 years? They don't talk about what -- everybody knows him. He's a very well-known and most highly respected person until the last couple of weeks, because they're destroying him and they're destroying his reputation. And we can't let that happen. We can't. Can't let it happen. And I don't even know him, folks. I don't even know him. I met him for the first time a few weeks ago. I don't even know him. So it's not like, ""Oh, gee, I want to protect my friend."" I want to do what's right for this country. This is a very important time in our country... OK? Very important thing. Very important time in our country. The Democrat Party has become too extreme -- this is an example of it -- and too dangerous to be trusted with power. That is why you must vote Republican on Election Day, and you have to go out and vote. You know, I'm listening to commentators, and they say, ""If Trump were running, he's going to beat everybody."" They're saying that. You know, it's hard for them to admit that. And I certainly dream about all these people. Biden, the guy never had more than 1 percent in a poll when he was running for president, and then Obama took him off the trash heap, right? Biden -- I hear Biden wants to take me to the back of a barn. He would be in big trouble, I will tell you. Remember he said that? ""I'd like to take him."" You know, with Biden, you go like this -- whew -- and he goes down.  Biden. And the other ones. But they say that, ""Donald Trump isn't running, so will the people go out and vote in three weeks?"" You got to go out and vote. And they say, ""But Donald Trump doesn't like Congress."" I really do. I like a lot of the people in Congress. Some I'm disappointed in, but for the most part -- and I have to tell you something: We have the right ideas. We're making our country great again. We're doing the right thing. We need more Republican votes. They say we have a majority. We barely have -- if somebody has a cold and stays home, we don't have a majority. That's how bad it is. Republicans have to go out and vote. And they say if I was on the ticket, everybody would go, it would be a landslide. Even the fakers back there, they say that. And I'm not on the ticket, but I am on the ticket. Because this is also a referendum about me and the disgusting gridlock that they'll put this country through. Think of it. We have the greatest economy in history. We have a military that will soon be the strongest we've ever had. Our country is doing so well. And then we have a Maxine Waters saying, ""We have to get rid of him. We have to get rid of him!"" Maxine Waters. And Nancy Pelosi. She's another beauty. Get out and vote! I want you to vote. Pretend I'm on the ballot. And don't worry, we'll be on the ballot in two years, and we will do a landslide like you haven't -- like you wouldn't believe. A couple of the reporters I see back there, they said, ""Oh, Trump is running."" And I must say, one of them said, right after I announced, June 16th -- right after I announced, there was a Sunday morning show. And one of them said, ""You know he's going to win, don't you?"" And another one, who's back there now, who's looking very well, said, along with the host, ""Oh, ho, ho, ho, ho, you're only kidding. He's just doing this for fun."" You think this is fun? Yeah, actually, it's sort of fun. I guess it is. For me, it's fun. For me, it's fun. You know why it's fun? Because we're achieving our goals better than anyone thought possible. That's why it's fun. If I wasn't, it wouldn't be fun. But this one particular reporter, she said, ""Ho, ho, ho, you're only kidding, right? Ha, ha, that's so funny."" And I'll never forget on election night, ""Donald Trump is your next president, folks."" And it's driving them crazy. So, we're thrilled to be here tonight, and I am having a lot of fun. But it is true: I'm having fun because nobody ever would have believed in a million years that we would have accomplished what we've accomplished. Nobody has accomplished more in two years. You take a look at the first two years of any -- nobody has even come close to accomplishing what we've accomplished. And I'm doing it for you, and we're doing it together, because this is a whole thing that has never happened in our country before. You know, it's interesting, when we first started, there were a lot of people who were showing up. And by the way, you think this is a big crowd in here? This place is packed, right? Right? And if there was one empty seat, they would say, as the Washington Post did say -- the Washington Post came -- you saw that, right? -- came to an arena someplace four hours early and they hadn't started letting the people in yet. And he put a picture of an empty arena. There were tens of thousands of people outside waiting to come in. The Washington Post put a picture of an empty arena, and they put a caption to the effect, ""Mr. President, not a very good crowd, is it?"" And you know what happened? And they had a picture up of an empty arena like I was a -- I didn't even land for four and a half hours later. And when I landed, that place was just like this. It was packed with thousands of people outside. Now, did they fire that reporter? No. Did they fire that reporter? No. Right? They -- isn't it incredible? Isn't it sad? And look what happened to Roseanne. Did they fire Roseanne? Yes. No, but think of it. Puts a picture of an empty -- like it had 5 percent. People were just starting to trickle in. And said, ""Not a very good crowd, Mr. President."" There was no games. You know what happened that night? People that were sitting on stairwells, people that couldn't get a seat, people that were here only cause the fire marshals were so incredible, that shouldn't have even been allowed to come in, with thousands outside, they said, ""This is a fraud by the Washington Post."" I was there. There were no empty seats. We set a record that evening for crowd attendance. Because we don't need much of a stage. Basketball, they need a big -- you're filled up with people, like it is tonight. And we barely got an apology. And he admitted he was wrong. You know where he did it? On his little Twitter account.  And that kind of dishonesty happens all the time. Happened at the inauguration. It happened at the inauguration. It happens all the time. These are very, very dishonest people. We are thrilled to be joined tonight by several great Republican leaders. And we're going to start with a friend of mine who is a very special man, very special. He's a great governor. Done a fantastic job. He called me. He built the African-American Museum. Called me. We went there. It was so beautiful. We had -- I was at the opening. We cut the ribbon! Governor Phil Bryant. Governor. Thank you, Phil. Thank you, Phil. Should we bring Phil up here? He's been so -- come on. Get up here, Phil. Come, come, come. Come on, Phil, get up here. What a great governor he's been. Look at this guy. Is he central casting or what? Is he -- look at this. He's central casting. But you know where he's really good? His heart and his brain. Great brain and great heart. Seriously. Thank you! Are we proud to have Donald J. Trump here in Mississippi? All right, I don't want to get started, but I can tell you what. This man has done more as president of the United States in two years than any president that I can ever remember or ever studied about. He is a remarkable man that is making America great again!  Thank you very much, Phil. Lieutenant Governor Tate Reeves. Tate? Tate? Where is Tate? Thanks, Tate. Doing a good job. And Mississippi Secretary of State Delbert Hosemann. Delbert? Thank you. Thank you. And I want to thank your members of Congress that are here, because they've been warriors, they've been friends. They helped me with the biggest tax cuts in the history of our country... the biggest tax reform, the great regulation cuts, which could be even more important, frankly, than the tax cuts, if you want to know the truth, because it means jobs. But you have some great -- Congressman Trent Kelly. Trent, thank you. Gregg Harper. Thank you very much. And David Kustoff. Thank you, David. There's another warrior in the room. These are warriors. Look, the abuse they take, the abuse we all take, if you're not a warrior, you just go home, go to the corner, put your thumb in your mouth and say, ""Mommy, take me home."" You got to be a warrior. And a guy who is a wonderful friend of mine and has always been there for me, Senator Roger Wicker. Roger? What a great -- and Mrs. Wicker, thank you. What a great guy. And he's doing great. Get out and vote for him, anyway. He's winning by a lot, but get out there and vote. We love Roger. Finally, I want to introduce the person we are all here tonight to support, a true Mississippi patriot, Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith. Come on up. Cindy, come up. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. And I told him he would get a warm Mississippi welcome, and you did not disappoint. Yes! We are the Hospitality State, Mr. President. And I tell you, it is such an honor to work with this man. Is he not the best president we have ever had? This is wonderful. You know, early on, I was a supporter of then-candidate Donald J. Trump, and I was on his ag advisory committee. And now every time I walk onto the Senate floor, I want to help President Donald J. Trump. It is such an honor to work with a man that, I'll tell you, he loves the veterans, he loves the military, and he loves our law enforcement, as well. You know, this past week -- this past week in Brookhaven, Mississippi, my hometown, we had two officers shot down this past weekend. And I was able to tell him about that, James White and Zack Moak. And then the next day, we had a Mississippi Highway Patrol trooper, Josh Smith, shot down. And I'm just going to ask you to remember those people in your prayers as we continue on with this. We've had a tragic week in Mississippi with our law enforcement, but this man supports law enforcement 100 percent. I just want to thank our great governor, Phil Bryant, for making me your U.S. senator, to appoint me to that, an opportunity of three lifetimes. Other than being the mother of Anna Michael Smith and the husband of Mike Smith, it is the greatest honor of my life. And what a treat to serve with Senator Roger Wicker. When I tell you he's been a friend, he has been a friend to me on the Senate floor, no doubt. I tell you, you know, when I was sworn in as your U.S. senator, Vice President Mike Pence, he put this pin right here on me, and he said, ""Cindy, this pin will get you in any door in Washington, D.C."" But I want you to know, this isn't my pin. This is your pin. This is Mississippi's pin. We've got a lot of work to do in Washington, D.C. This man is leading the charge. We're going to get back on Air Force One, and we're going back to Washington, because you know what? We've got a Supreme Court justice to get confirmed! We got to. So I'm going to ask for your prayers, also, for the Kavanaugh family. And I'll tell you tonight, my true prayer is God will continue to bless these great state  of the United States! Thank you, Cindy.  Thank you, Cindy. Great. You know we had a great friend who was senator, and did a fantastic job, and it was just his time. He called me, it was his time. And you know who I'm talking about, wonderful man. And he said, ""You're going to have to appoint somebody."" And I went to Phil. I said, ""Phil, who's the best?"" And Phil had no doubt in his mind. That's who he recommended. And since then, Cindy has voted with me 100 percent of the time. She's always had my back. She's always had your back. And a vote for Cindy is a vote for me and make America great again. And a vote for Cindy's opponent, Mike Espy, is a vote for Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi... and the legendary low-IQ person Maxine Waters. That's why Schumer's PAC is funding Mike Espy with a lot of money. A vote for Espy is a vote for the Democrat agenda to open borders and for radical socialism. When Espy was in Congress, he even sponsored legislation alongside Nancy Pelosi to provide taxpayer-funded health care to illegal aliens. Oh, that's great. That's just what Mississippi wants. I don't think that works in Mississippi. Does that work? I don't think so. I don't think so. Your vote in this election will decide which party controls the United States Senate. It's very important. Very important. And that's a great woman. That's a great woman. Gotten to know her very well over the last number of months. If Democrats get control, they will raise your taxes, flood your streets with criminal aliens, weaken our military, outlaw private health insurance, and replace freedom with socialism. In a short period of time -- of course, I'll be doing lots of vetoes, just so don't worry too much -- they will turn America into Venezuela. How's that working out? And our country will never be Venezuela. We won't let that happen. If Democrats get 51 seats, the key Senate committees will be run by the far left Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie. It's amazing that he wasn't more angry that the election got stolen from him, right? I don't get it. You know, he's always like complaining, complaining. He's jumping around. The hair's going crazy. The hair's going crazy. He's jumping like a lunatic. But he never complained about the fact that crooked Hillary cheated him out of the election. It's amazing. It's amazing.  You know, Bernie was on television recently. And he was screaming and ranting and raving. And I said to my wife, Melania, who's now in Africa representing us, first lady... I watched her get off that plane this morning in Africa. And so beautiful. And she was hugging and kissing children. It was beautiful to see. She's doing a great job as first lady, I will tell you. Really great. And you think that's an easy job? That's not an easy job. That's a tough job. She's fantastic. But Bernie Sanders was ranting and raving and ""We're going to this"" and ""Trump and Trump and we got to stop"" -- what he's going to stop? Having a strong military? Having low taxes? Having borders? What's he going to stop? What am I doing? What's he going to stop? Having less regulation? But he's going to stop Trump. He's going to stop Trump. He's going to stop us left and right. He's ranting and raving. And the commentator looks at him and goes, ""You know he's winning, don't you?"" And Bernie just looked at him like this. It was like -- but I said to my -- you got to hand it to him. You know, he's out there. He's doing his thing, whether you like it or not. He's out there doing his thing, and you've got to hand it to him. But a guy like Bernie would be in charge of the Budget Committee. Patrick Leahy -- oh, he's never had a drink in his life.  Check it out. Look under ""Patrick Leahy/drink.""  ""How dare you have a beer while you're in high school? How dare."" ""Patrick Leahy-drink"" will be in charge of the Appropriations Committee. Bob Menendez -- you don't know about him -- will be in -- I'll leave him alone, because we can't cover too many of these characters, right? But I'm going to leave him alone -- will be in charge of Foreign Affairs. And the great Dianne Feinstein... will be in charge of the Judiciary Committee. No. Wasn't that great? Wasn't that great? Wasn't that something the other day? She was asked a simple question, ""Did you leak the document?"" -- wasn't that great? -- by John Cornyn. He goes, ""You leaked the document."" ""No. What? No."" ""Uh, remember?"" ""No. Oh, no, I didn't. No, I don't think I -- well, wait. Did we leak the document? No.""  ""How about the aide?"" ""No, you idiot! No!""  ""No, we didn't leak the document. We didn't leak the document. No, we didn't."" That was the worst body language that I've ever seen. Oh, what a group. What a group. Holier than thou, aren't they? Holier than thou. You know the expression, right? What a group. Also at stake in this election is Medicare. Democrats in Washington want to raid Medicare to pay for their socialist agenda. They're going to destroy it. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it and paid for it, right? Right? And we will always protect Americans with pre-existing location. We're going to have to do that. Pre-existing conditions. We have to take care of pre-existing conditions, because it's just the way life is, folks. We have to do that. And the Democrats are talking about it and they can't do it, because they have no plan. So just put it down. And some Republicans say, ""Is that a Republican thing?"" Whether it is or not -- and to me it is, and it always will be -- pre-existing conditions will always be taken care of by us. Have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it, and we want to do it. I want to do it. We're all going to do it. We're doing well. We'll take it from China. We'll take it from the European Union, who has taken advantage of us for years. We'll take it from Japan. We'll take it from our new, beautiful transaction, which is a fair transaction, and good for them, too, Mexico, Canada. We're going to have plenty of money coming in, folks, when we fix up these horrible trade deals. So we're going to take care of pre-existing conditions. People that have a problem are going to be helped by the Republican Party from -- from the time I got elected, really. You look at what we've done with Obamacare. It's a disaster. We had it beaten. But I'll say it a different way than I have been saying it. We didn't get one Democrat vote. We had it repealed and replaced. A little shocked took place early in the morning. But the fact is, we didn't get one Democrat vote. We would have saved a trillion dollars -- think of it -- our country would have saved $1 trillion had we gotten that extra vote. We didn't get one vote from one Democrat. But we've pretty much dismantled it. And here's a nice story. We've managed it well. And your premiums have gone up very little by -- remember, they were going up 156, 201, 187, 116 percent? Now we have it down. But we're getting rid of it entirely. We're going to have great health care. The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE -- the brave, brave people of ICE. In other words, they want to abolish immigration enforcement entirely. That's what they want to do. Democrats also support strongly sanctuary cities of death. Sanctuary cities. Every day, sanctuary cities are unleashing vicious predators and bloodthirsty killers, like MS-13, into our communities. They go out and they hide out in sanctuary cities. Then they come into our cities and our towns. And then we send ICE in, and ICE has no problem. You know why? Because ICE is much tougher and much smarter than them. And ICE has done an incredible job. And they grab them by the neck and they throw them the hell out of our country or they throw them into jail. And you don't want that job. And you don't want that job. And you don't even want -- although maybe you could handle that job, right? But they do a fantastic job. And we have to cherish our law enforcement. And that goes for Border Patrol, that goes for ICE. We're setting records on the border on arrests. We don't want to do that. We're building the wall. It's going up. But getting money is brutal -- brutal.  So we've started the wall. And we've done a lot in California and elsewhere -- San Diego. We're moving eastward, and we're covering a lot of territory. They gave us $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion, and another $1.6 billion. I want the whole thing, because we can do the whole damn wall, and we can do a great one in one year. But getting money from the Democrats is tough, because they know that's a big issue for us. And they know we need it. Most of them voted for it in 2006. I don't know if you know that. Most of them. But, of course, you have to have a wall. You have people pouring across. They're tackling people. And then, of course, they have catch and release. You catch somebody. ""Who is this person?"" ""It's a criminal."" ""Oh, that's OK. Catch, take his name and release the person."" And the person they think will come back to court. We have the dumbest immigration laws in the whole world. Watch what happens over the next couple of weeks, folks. Watch. Watch. And it's all because of the Democrats. Every Republican wants some change. But they stop you. The only thing they're good at -- they're lousy politicians. They're horrible in policy. They don't know what the hell they're doing. They're only good at one thing: resisting. They're good at s"
"Hello, Johnson City. It is great to be with you. I am thrilled to be back. I look forward to being back in the great state of Tennessee, with thousands of hard-working American patriots. That's what you are. In less than two years, we've achieved the biggest comeback in American history. You look at what's happened. And our country is respected again. We're respected again. Jobless claims are at a 50-year low. And the stock market is at an all-time high. The economy is booming, wages are rising, and more Americans are working today than ever before. Ever before. And think of that. Think of that. Such a simple statement. But such a complex thing to do. Think of it. More Americans are working today than ever before. What a beautiful statement. Get out and vote in November. It can all change around quickly, folks. We are defending our Second Amendment, taking care... But Bredesen will not defend your Second Amendment. We're taking care of our great veterans and rebuilding America's military might. And just today, we made history again when I announced to the world that we are replacing the job-killing disaster known as NAFTA... with a brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada -- we added Canada, worked out great -- trade agreement. And we're calling it USMCA. No more NAFTA. No more NAFTA. It's the largest trade deal the United States has ever negotiated. And it's also a great deal for our country. It's going to produce jobs. And companies aren't going to be leaving and firing everybody and making product and sending it back into the United States, no tax. It's there. It's modern. And it's balanced. And you know what? We have two wonderful partners now. Now they're partners, Mexico and Canada, and that's a good thing. That's a good thing. America's winning again, and America is being respected again, because we are finally putting America first. But radical Democrats in Congress are trying very hard to erase everything that we've achieved. They're looking out there right now and they're trying to figure out, how do they take an election because they want to take it back? You look at your 401(k)s. You know, we're up from the time of the election 55 percent. I love you, President Trump! I love you, too. He doesn't sound like my type. You know, that voice is very strong. But I love him. Whoever you are, I love you. We're just five weeks from one of the most important congressional elections of our lifetime. They're trying to take what we did in '16, something that nobody has seen maybe in other countries, not alone -- it was the greatest election victory in the history of our country. And between the Democrats, who are obstructionists, who are people that don't want to see strong military, they don't want borders, they don't mind crime... and their enablers, the fake news media, right back there. We've got to be very careful. We've got to be very careful. A Democrat takeover of Congress will plunge our country into gridlock and chaos and take away all of the wealth that you've earned over the last 20 months. This -- and think of this. The stock market, which is up at record levels, and now the highest, will drop. Your 401(k)s will be devastated. Your taxes will rise beyond your wildest imagination. And crime will flow in to our country through these open borders. Other than that, we'll be doing very well. It's crazy.  And we are. We want to get more money. We want to -- I could build that thing in one year. I could build it. We got $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion, and another $1.6 billion. We want to build it fast. I can build it -- so after the election, leadership has said, meaning Republicans, they're going to do something that's going to be very strong. Let's see what happens. But -- but the wall is under construction. A lot of work has been done. A lot of renovation -- if you look at some of it, some wall was up, falling down, terrible condition, now it's beautiful, brand new, and it works. It does work. We need wall. We need border security. We want -- we got to take care of our people. Look at what's going on. Look at what's going on in California. You have a man running for governor in California that says we don't want any borders. We don't want ICE. We do want sanctuary cities. And they're going to take care of health care, they're going to take care of education, they're going to care of everything for people that just flow in. You're going to have a billion people living in California. It's going to be a mess. We have it right. We have it going properly. This country will never be Venezuela, that I can tell you, because that's what they're looking for. That's what they're looking for. The Democrat Party has been completely taken over by the so-called resistance. That's all they do. They campaign on resist. I'll tell you something. They're only good at one thing. They stick together like glue. That's it. They have bad policy. Frankly, they're bad politicians. Everything's bad. But they stick together. We have to be very careful, they'll take everything, including your Second Amendment. They'll take everything away. Democrats believe that they're entitled to power, and they have been blind in a blind rage ever since, boy, they lost the 2016 -- they've gone loco. They have gone loco. They have gone crazy. This election is a choice between a Republican Party that is building our future and a Democrat Party that is trying to burn our future down. The Democrats only know how to obstruct, demolish, and destroy. As we've seen in recent weeks, Democrats are willing to do anything and to hurt anyone to get their way, like they're doing with Judge Kavanaugh. They've been trying to destroy him since the very first second he was announced, because they know that Judge Kavanaugh will follow the Constitution as written. That's been his history. And he's a good man. Great student, great intellect. Never had a problem. All of a sudden, oh, let's go back to high school. They maybe should go before high school. And I know so many of them. You have the great Vietnam War hero who didn't go to Vietnam -- you know that, right -- Blumenthal. How about Blumenthal? How about Blumenthal? Da Nang Blumenthal, we call him Da Nang Blumenthal. For 15 years, as the attorney general of Connecticut, he went around telling war stories. People dying left and right, but my platoon marched forward. He was never in Vietnam. It was a lie. And then he's up there -- then he's up there saying we want the truth from Judge Kavanaugh. And you're getting the truth from Judge Kavanaugh. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Da Nang. You know Da Nang, right? Great city in Vietnam. And then you have Cory Booker, who destroyed Newark. I mean, the job he did in Newark. And see some of the things he wrote when he was young about women. Take a look, OK? And then they want to take a lot longer with the FBI. No, the FBI -- they should take -- by the way, if we took 10 years, they'd want more time. But they want to take a lot longer. But Dianne Feinstein, she had this... She had this letter for months, and she didn't reveal it until everything was finished. Then she revealed it. Then she says, oh, we want more time. Let's see how it all works out. But I'll tell you what, they're trying to destroy a very fine person. And we can't let it happen. We can't let it happen. Democrats want activist, left-wing judges who will totally rewrite your laws, erase your borders, and replace your values. You don't want that in Tennessee. Republicans know that a judge's job is to follow the law and to deliver equal justice for all. The Democrats can no longer be trusted with your power and with their power. You can't let it happen. They have moved so far left that Pocahontas is considered a conservative. True. That's right. Elizabeth Warren. She said she's considering a run for the presidency. Please, please run. How about that group, Biden? Biden. We call him 1 percent Biden. Until Obama took him off the trash heap, he couldn't do anything. Now he's talking about running. Tough guy. He's tough guy. He's -- he's a real genius. I want to challenge him to a fight behind the barn. Oh, would I love that? Wouldn't that be good? I want to challenge Donald Trump. Remember that? He got a little upset. He's another beauty. They got some real beauties going. This November 6th, you have the chance to reject the outrageous policies of the Democrat Party. Not the Democratic Party. But the Democrat Party. Sounds worse, right? But that's their real name. It's the Democrat Party. But you can only do it. You got to vote for Republican. We need more Republicans to get the votes. Stop the crime. You know, I said the other night, and I said, you know, I think I'm going to keep it. It's a little harsh, but I think I'll keep it. Democrats are the party of crime. How does that sound? They're the party of crime. Sounds a little tough, but it's true. Open borders. We're thrilled to be joined by many terrific Republican members of Congress, people that are friends of mine, people that have helped me, people that love your state and they love other states and they love our country. One of them is a man that everybody knows in this state very well. His name is Phil Roe. And he has really helped. Phil? Thank you, Phil. He's always there for you. Thank you, Phil. Another man said -- this is what I was Mr. Trump, not Mr. President -- I was here, he said, you know, we do early voting in Tennessee. He said, sir, I want to tell you that people are coming out of the mountains, out of the rivers, out of -- they're coming out of the valleys. They're coming -- they said -- right? They're coming out of everywhere. He said, I've never seen anything. I've been doing this stuff for 30 years more. And he said, this is what before -- you know, I'm waiting like we had, like, 30 days, but you have early voting in Tennessee. So I've never seen anything like it. People that haven't voted, because they haven't liked anybody. These are great people. These are great, incredible people. But they didn't exactly like what they had to go for. So they have a -- now they're coming out with Trump banners, Trump hats, Trump -- you know, make America great again. And this man -- he said, I can't speak for the rest of our nation, but if the nation's like Tennessee, you're going to win by a lot. And that's exactly what happened, right? John Duncan, Congressman, thank you, John. Where's John? Good. Thank you, John. He made me feel very good before the election. A friend of mine, a great congressman, somebody who's really worked hard. Even though he's not from your state, does it matter? He's just a great congressman. I see him here. He has been so strong, so smart. He loves this country so much, Congressman Mark Meadows. Thank you, Mark. And Deborah. Deborah, thank you, Deb. Congressman Chuck Fleischmann, who has been fantastic. Where's Chuck? Chuck? Thank you, Chuck. Chuck has been great. Morgan Griffith, Scott DesJarlais -- my favorite name in politics. DesJarlais. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. You guys are great. These are really -- these are great people. You know, we don't have to devote a lot of time. I'm just -- these are great people. These are people that love our country. They want to do the right thing. You know, there's nothing wrong with having strong borders, strong law enforcement. You want to be safe. There's nothing wrong with paying low taxes. There's really nothing wrong. You want to have a strong military, especially in these times. You know, if you have a strong military, you're never going to have to use it. You're never going to have to use it. And we're going to very shortly have the strongest military we've ever had. We're also joined -- thank you, all -- we're also joined by future Republican members of Congress, Tim Burchett. Where's Tim? Tim? We got to get Tim in there. Tim? Thank you, Tim. John Rose, John, thank you, John. Mark Green, I hear they're up pretty good, but don't take any chances. Don't take any chances. You've got to go vote. Don't take any chances. We've got to get them in. But they're up pretty good. This is a hell of a state, I'll tell you that. These people... I also want to thank your great governor. I had dinner with him the other night. We were with a group of people. It was a fascinating dinner. He loves this state, also, and he's done a great job as governor, Governor Bill Haslam. Thank you. Thank you, Bill. Thank you. And Lieutenant Governor Randy McNally, thank you. Thank you, Randy. Great. Great job. Thank you. Great job. And very importantly, we have Tennessee's next governor, Bill Lee. And a man who did a fantastic job during the election for Trump. I will tell you, State Party Chairman Scott Golden. Thank you, Scott. Thanks, Scott. Thanks. And, finally, the person we are here tonight to support. We cherish this person. She's a fighter. A true fighter for the people of Tennessee. She loves your state. And she's your next U.S. senator, she's going to be fantastic, Marsha Blackburn, Marsha, come up, please. There we go. Thank you all so much.  Thank you. Mr. President, thank you for coming back to Tennessee. We love the president in Tennessee. And I want to say thank you to each of you for being here tonight. Thank you so much for all you are doing to elect all of these Republican candidates that we've talked about tonight. And thank you for sending Donald J. Trump to the White House. He has had an amazing 20 months. You've just heard some of those things. Not to even mention the foreign policy that he has achieved. Dealing with China, North Korea, getting us out of the Iran deal. And, Mr. President, we in Tennessee really appreciate that you moved the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Thank you for that. I know -- I know that the Democrats keep saying that there is a blue wave coming, but let me tell you something... Mr. President, when that blue wave gets to the state line, it is going to run smack dab into the great red wall. And that... And that is every single one of you. So if you want a U.S. senator who is going to stand with the president, build the wall, cut your taxes, and to make certain that we take care of our men and women in uniform, I am asking you to stand with me. Let's -- let's take these Tennessee values to Washington, D.C., and put them to work with President Donald Trump. Thank you all.  So I just want to thank Marsha Blackburn. And I will you, she's all about Tennessee values. That's the one. She's got Tennessee values. A vote for Marsha is really a vote for me and everything that we stand for. It's a vote for make America great again. That's what it is. A vote for Bredesen is a vote for Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi... and the real leader of the Democrats, Maxine Waters. Phil Bredesen wants to raise your taxes. As governor, remember this -- you've got to remember -- seems like a nice guy, but what good does that do? As governor, he raised taxes and fees in your state by more than $1 billion. He opposes the border wall totally. He supported driver certificates for illegal aliens. And on his watch, Tennessee unemployment doubled. It doubled in the -- whatever it was. How long was he there? Eight? It doubled. You want him to be running -- I don't think so. I don't think so. He doubled unemployment. In 2010, Phil wrote a book advocating government-run health care. That's what you want? You want to wait on line for about six weeks to get taken care of? And called for it to be funded by a 20 percent payroll tax on all of the hard-working Americans, many are in this room right now. Government-run health care. No, I don't think so. That hasn't proven too successful anywhere else. Phil was a major financial supporter of President Obama and of Hillary -- crooked Hillary Clinton. She's crooked as hell. Now Phil is running to be the 51st Senate Democrat and the 51st -- Democrats are elected in November, then Chuck Schumer will become a majority leader. You put in 51. Even though he said something good about our deal with Canada and Mexico today, but how can you not say good? That's why Schumer is so desperate for Phil to win, because everything that we stand for will never get the votes. We need votes. It's very important. Number one, Marsha will be a great, great senator, but, number two, we need the votes. We've got to have the vote. And he will never once vote for us. Just remember, he will never vote for us. Not on judges. You know, one of the reasons they say I got elected was that Supreme Court judge -- they always say the single most important thing that the president can do is the selection of a Supreme Court judge. OK. So we picked Justice Neil Gorsuch, who has been fantastic. And now Judge Brett Kavanaugh is actually doing well. I really believe -- we've got to do it. We cannot allow ourselves... to be pushed around. Phil is only running because Chuck Schumer called him up and begged him. The word is begged him to run because Schumer knows the Democrats' path to power runs right through Tennessee. Again, Second Amendment, higher taxes, lots of crime, MS-13, get used to them. No ICE. We don't want ICE, they say. If you want to stop Schumer from becoming majority leader, if you want to stop your taxes from going up 50 percent or more -- that's what's going to happen -- then you must vote against Bredesen. Your vote in this election will decide which party controls the Senate. That's how close it is. You know, I'd like to tell you no, but that's how close it is. A Democrat-controlled Senate will always be raising your taxes. They'll always throw open your border. There's nothing you can do. There's nothing he's going to do to change it. He's going to vote with the Democrats. There's not going to be -- I mean, you look at health care. We got no votes. Look at -- we gave you the largest tax cuts in the history of this country. We didn't get one Democrat vote. And they don't vote for a reason. They just vote because it's bad for Trump. In other words, they want to stop anything that we do. If it's really good, they still want to stop it. And we don't want to let that happen. We have unbelievable things planned, and we have to let it happen. Flood your streets. They're going to flood your streets with criminal aliens. That's what's going to happen. We love you! They're always attacking law enforcement. I'll give you an example. Under the Obama administration, we have tremendous amounts of surplus military equipment. Right? Tremendous equipment. You know, heavy armor, lots of different things, that keep the law enforcement professionals, people that we love, that keeps them safe. They didn't want to give it them. I have given it to them. I'm sorry. They want to block your great judges. They want to weaken the military. They don't -- it's not even weaken. They don't want to spend any money on the military. You know, the beautiful thing about military -- number one, you need it. Everything's like jobs, jobs is very important to me. When it comes to the military, it's not the jobs. OK? That's totally secondary. But we will soon have the strongest military that we've ever had. We had fighter jets -- we had fighter jets and we had airplanes in our military where the father flew 'em, the grandfather flew 'em, and the son as a young pilot goes in, flying the same planes. You know what? They're all going fast. We've ordered all incredible new, finest jets in the world. But the other thing is, they're made right here in the USA. All of them. Jobs, jobs, jobs. They want to outlaw private health insurance. So you'll get great health insurance, and we're already doing it. We're providing you with tremendous amounts of competition. You're getting great health insurance and it's going to get better when we can get a few more votes so we can do it the way you want it. This is the way you want it. They want to shut down American energy and replace freedom with socialism. They want... They want to turn -- it's true -- the Democrats want to turn America into Venezuela. That'll be wonderful. That'll be wonderful. We're not going to let it happen. And you know what, even most Democrats -- I can't believe -- when you look at what they're doing with sanctuary cities and everything, I can't believe most of them are going for it. Also at stake in this election is Medicare. Democrats in Washington want to raid Medicare to pay for their socialism. Democrats are pushing so-called medicine for all, robbing our seniors of all of their Medicare benefits. That's what's happening. Republicans want to protect Medicare and our great seniors who have earned it and paid for it. And we always protect Americans with their pre-existing conditions. We're doing that. On pre-existing conditions, a lot of people think it's not a very Republican thing. It is now, and it has been for me. I want to take care of people with pre-existing conditions. We're doing well. We can do it. Democrats also want to give welfare and free health care to illegal aliens. Republicans want to protect public benefits. And we do. We want to protect benefits and public benefits for truly needy Americans, Americans that need help. Democrats want to abolish ICE. In other words, they want to abolish immigration enforcement entirely. And the Democrat Party supports sanctuary cities that unleash violent predators, like MS-13, into our communities. And remember what I said. It's the party of crime. Democrats -- they really are. You look at what they're doing. Even look at what they're doing in Congress. Even look at what they're doing with our laws, the way they treat our laws, the way they treat country. What they do in Congress. They are indeed the party of crime. Every day, innocent lives are stolen because of Democrat-supported immigrant policies. If you just take a look, you have immigration policies that are so bad, so dangerous. Just recently in California, an illegal alien with a sex crime conviction and other convictions had a prior deportation. They wanted to deport this person. They never did. He was convicted for killing a local football coach who leaves behind a wife and six beautiful kids. A pillar of the community. By the way, this is all over. You could go -- you could do this for days. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. And Republicans proudly stand with the brave men and women of ICE, Border Patrol, and we stand with law enforcement. This election in November is about safety, and it's also about prosperity. The prosperity of our country. We are doing things now that nobody believes. We are hitting numbers that nobody believes. Here are just some of our achievements since Election Day. Thank you. We've created over 4 million new jobs. Nobody thought that was possible, 4 million. And lifted almost 4 million Americans off of food stamps. We've added nearly 600,000 new manufacturing jobs. That wasn't supposed to happen. Remember when President Obama said you can't do manufacturing? Magic wand, right? You'd need a magic wand. You don't need a magic wand. You need proper policies. You need a lot of things. You don't need a magic wand. Remember this. And you've heard me say it a lot. I'm very proud of it. African-American unemployment -- think of it -- African-American unemployment just reached the lowest level ever recorded. Right? Right? Right? After years of Democrats failing and abandoning African-Americans, Republicans are delivering for African-Americans like never before. We're doing the job. And you saw that the other night with Kanye West. How good was Kanye West? And Big Jim Brown. And so many others. We're supported by so many great folks. Jim Brown. Boy, we could use him on some of those teams right now, couldn't we? Couldn't we? Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment also reached all-time lows. Women's unemployment recently reached its lowest level in 65 years. That's going to be coming out soon. I think it'll be in history. And last week, I signed a groundbreaking new trade deal with South Korea that dramatically increases American exports. You remember that deal? Remember that deal? Hillary Clinton -- that was a Hillary deal -- she said we must have this deal with South Korea. It will create 250,000 jobs. And it did for South Korea, not for us. It created jobs for South Korea. We now have a good thing. Friend or foe? Friend or foe? Friend, OK. You never know. When you hear little noises like that, you say foe, get them out, right? But they're friends. We only have friends in Tennessee, I think. We're also entering new trade talks with the European Union, which, frankly, has treated us extremely badly, and with Japan. Japan sends us millions and millions of cars. And we're working on a trade deal. We're working on a trade deal. It will be fine. And we are cracking down on China's unfair and abusive trade practices. Got to do it. We've been losing $300 billion, $400 billion, $500 billion a year to China. No more. No more. Right. No more. Can't do it. After years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. And we're doing it with American aluminum and we're doing it with American steel. And our steel is doing really well. Really well. To put more money in the pockets of Tennessee families, we passed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in the history of our country. And we eliminated the core of Obamacare. We got rid of the individual mandate. It's gone. The worst part of our ( ) And as bad as those premiums are, we've kept the premiums down. We've done a lot of things. But we're trying to keep those premiums from the remnant of Obamacare down. But it will all get taken care of. We just need a few more votes. This year alone, we have successfully lowered your health insurance premiums in the state of Tennessee by 26 percent. That's not bad. Under the past administration, it was like a rocket ship going up. To help critically ill patients access life-saving treatments, we just passed something they've been trying to pass for 45 years. Right to try. You know what that is. Right to try. Right? I'm very proud -- Meadows helped with that one. And Phil helped with that one, right, Phil? Phil Roe. You guys all helped with that one. And Greg, right, Greg was good. Did a good job. You know, right to try, so somebody's terminally ill, and we have medicines that have great help, great future. They look good. They're very promising. But we had no right to give those medicines to somebody that's terminal, is going to die. They had no hope. If they had money, they traveled all over the world to find a cure, but yet we have the greatest doctors and the greatest medicine in the world here. But it would be years, three years, four years. We've reduced it. It used to be 14, 15 years. I think we have it down to three-and-a-half to four. Scott is doing a great job at the FDA. But... Forty-five years they've been trying to pass -- not as easy as it sounds. Not as easy as -- I will tell you, not that easy, but we got it passed. So now somebody's terminally ill. And if we have a drug that looks like it's possibly going to help, we can actually give it to those people. And you know what? Already we've had success. Some of these drugs are working. Some of these drugs are working. I'm very proud of it, right to try. Hopefully you don't have to use it, OK? I don't want you to have to use it, but you know what? If you do, doesn't it make sense, instead of doing -- I mean, if you don't have the money, you just go home and you sit there and it's -- you lose hope, and if you do have money, you go all over the world trying to find a cure. So right to try, remember it. That was a big deal. We also passed veterans choice. Any veterans in the room? Yes. We do. Young veteran. Young. We just passed choice. That was 44 years they've been trying to pass choice, so that if you have to wait in line for 9 days, 30 days, 21 days, months, you don't do that anymore. If the line's big, and if you're unhappy with it, you go to a private doctor, they take care of you, and we paid the bill. It's better. And you save a lot of money. It's better. They've been trying to pass that one for many, many decades. They couldn't do it. We got it passed. We're good at passing things, right? We're good. We're good at passing things, right? Oh, look. Come here. Stand up, Phil Roe. Stand up. That's right. That's right, Phil. Man, no wonder they love you in Tennessee. Great, right? And another one, we just passed the landmark V.A. Accountability Act, right? V.A. accountability. This is where you have employees at the V.A., Veterans Administration, who are terrible, who treat our great, great warriors who are troubled. They're not well. They're sadist. They steal. They rob. They do a lot of bad things, some of them. Some people are incredible. But we now have the right to go after them. We now have the right to fire them. The V.A. Accountability Act is a big thing. And just last week, I signed a record $716 billion funding bill for our military. And we are giving our troops the biggest pay raise they've had in over a decade. They deserve it. And I just withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal or disaster. And we've recognize the capital of Israel and opened the U.S. embassy in Jerusalem. We've done -- we've done so much, as point after point. I will not do this to you, but look at this. Page after page after page after page after page. I mean, look at this. Created jobs, 4 million, created manufacturing, 600,000. I mean, you just go point after point -- each one is a major point. I mean, but we're not going to bore you. But nobody's done -- I'll tell you what. Nobody has done this much in their first two years or probably in any two years -- nobody has done what we as a -- not me, what we have done with the help of all of these people and all of those people. Nobody. True. Nobody has done what we've done.  And we've cut more regulations than any administration, whether it's two years, four years, eight years, 12 years, in one case. We have cut more than any president, any administration, in two years, and it's less than two years, we have cut more regulations. And yet we have crystal clean water. We have pure, beautiful air. We're into that -- also, folks, but you don't have to turn off all business and send business to foreign countries to get it. Under my administration, we are no longer apologizing for America. We are standing up for America. Standing up. And we're standing up for your values. We're standing up for Tennessee. And we are standing up very proudly for our flag and our national anthem. We are lifting millions of our citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. That's what's happening. We're building a future of safety and hope and opportunity. And every city and every community in every part of this great land is prospering like they really have never prospered before. You see what's happening. It's a beautiful thing to watch. That's why outside right now -- I hope they haven't left -- we put big screens out there for them -- but you have close to 20,000 people standing outside. In the great state of Missouri, you had a big, beautiful arena. I always say Madison Square Garden, less maybe 30 percent, OK? Big, beautiful arena. It was packed. And in Missouri, they had -- you saw it -- 45,000 people outside. Think of it. So something is happening. And by the way... By the way, Claire McCaskill, who is another disaster, is being soundly beaten, we hope. We hope. Missouri. Audience Member Thank you. Thank you, 45,000. So we're fighting for the right of all children to have a safe home, a great school, a loving family and a ladder that raises them up to reach their highest dreams. Wouldn't that be nice? We're unleashing the power of faith. We need more faith in this country. The might of justice and the glory of freedom is what we're about. But to continue this incredible momentum, momentum like -- I don't know if you've ever had this in this country -- you know, I haven't been corrected. I said the 2016 election may have been the greatest election of all time. There's never been anything like this. And we had to fight the Democrats, but more difficult was fighting a very, very dishonest media. That was much more difficult. Fighting the media is tougher than fighting the Democrats, but they're equal partners. So you have to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and get out and vote Republican"
"Hello, West Virginia. Hello. What a great song. How great is that song? I am thrilled to be back in this incredible state with thousands of hard-working American patriots. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The people of West Virginia love our country, they honor our history and they always respect our great American flag, and this is a truly amazing time for our nation. Our economy is booming like never before. Remember, I told you. And by the way, your state is booming like never before. Poverty is plummeting, our stock market is soaring, reached its all-time high, by the way, in history, which I view as: jobs, jobs, jobs. All-time high. And our great coal miners are back to work. They're back to work. A lot of people said that wasn't going to happen, you're back to work. Not only back to work, they're opening up mines all over the place, we're opening up steel mills. And the steel mills need metallurgic coal, and those coal miners are working and the steel workers are working, and our whole country is working. We're taking care of our veterans and our military will soon be more powerful than ever before. America is winning again, and America is respected again. I just left the United Nations. Believe me, they respect us now again. They all respect us. And what are we doing? We're putting America first, finally. But a lot of what we've done, some people could say: ""All of what we've done is at stake in November."" Always fragile. We are just five weeks away from one of the most important congressional elections in our lifetimes. This is -- this is one of the big, big, in other words, that's true, I'm not running but I'm really running. That's why I'm all over the place fighting for great candidates. I'm fighting for great candidates. You see what's going on. You see this horrible, horrible, radical group of Democrats. You see it happening right now. And they're determined to take back power by using any means necessary. You see the meanness, the nastiness. They don't care who they hurt, who they have to run over in order to get power and control. That's what they want, is power and control. We're not going to give it to them. We're going to keep it running the way it's been running. While Republicans are fighting every day for jobs, safety, opportunity, lack of crime, with them it's crime, open borders. They've been on a mission to resist and obstruct, and destroy, and you see that over the last four days. You see it. It's up to each of you, with your precious vote. It is that -- you know in 2016, we have the same thing happening, the same thing. People are going to be very, very surprised. When you win the presidency, in theory, you're not supposed to do great in the midterm, but nobody's ever had a presidency like this, because I won the presidency. So I won the presidency, which is really ""we"" won the presidency, and we have the greatest economy that this nation has ever seen, jobs and everything else. So we won - and we have so many things happening that are so good. So we should do well in the midterms. I can't imagine not, but you have to get -- don't be complacent. The one thing that could happen, and the beautiful thing that's going on over the last few days in the Senate. When you see the anger, when you see people that are angry and mean and nasty and untruthful, when you look at releases and leaks, and then they say: ""Oh, I didn't do it, I didn't do it"" Remember Dianne Feinstein. Did you leak- Remember her answer? ""Did you leak the document?"", ""Ahh, ahh, what? No, no. I didn't. Well, wait. One minute. Did we leak-- Oh, No, we didn't."" I'll tell you what, that was really bad body language, who knows, maybe she didn't, but that was the worst body language. I've ever seen. The entire nation has witnessed the shameless conduct of the Democrat Party. They're willing to throw away every standard of decency, justice, fairness and due process to get their way. They don't care how they get it. You see it happening before your eyes. I think it's actually an incredible thing that's happening, and I just hope you don't sit home because bad things will happen if you sit home. So now, the story will be, one wacko. The story will be tomorrow. A major protest greets Donald Trump in the great state of Westminster, one person. He or she I couldn't tell from the back. Let's say it was she, was very easy to get out, right. But this week, America also saw something else. On Thursday, the American people saw the brilliant and really incredible character, quality and courage of our nominee for the United States, Supreme Court Judge Brett Kavanaugh. True. A vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh's -- a vote to confirm one of the most accomplished legal minds of our time. A jurist with a sterling record of public service - you know, for ten years -- he's a young guy, but for ten years they've been talking about him longer than that. I didn't know him, but I've heard about him a lot because they were all saying he should be on the United States Supreme Court. That's why I put him up, and -- and I will tell you, I will tell you, I will tell you he has suffered the meanness, the anger. Now, West Virginia, they did a poll, just came out, overall total support for Judge Kavanaugh 58%, total opposed 28%. So it's 58%, 28% oppose, that's pretty good, right? I think that's good. That's West Virginia. Republican, 81% versus 8%, that we expect. Wow. Women, 52% to 35%. West Virginia, 65% to 21%. That's good, right? It's a poll, but we love those polls. I love polls, only when they're good. When they're not good I don't talk about it. But they do a lot of -- see this, there's the fake news media, they do a lot of -- They do a lot of -- they do a lot phony polls. They do a lot of phony polls, they do a lot of polls, they call them suppression polls, they make a bad -- Although our polls now are good, they're good because we're doing a lot of good work, but they make them bad, so you go to a movie instead of voting, you say: ""Well, you know, Alice, let's go to a movie, then we'll come home and watch the returns."" Well, I'll tell you what, in 2016 nobody went to a movie. Nobody. I think the movie theaters were very empty that night. Don't you think? So, so great things are happening, but a vote for Judge Kavanaugh is also a vote to reject the ruthless and outrageous tactics of the Democrat Party. Mean obstructionists, mean resistors, for the last 18 months. Democrats have spent every minute trying to overturn the results of the last election. We had one of the great -- we had one of the great -- every day it's like a job. It's like part of your job description, get up and fight them, get up and fight them. They try and shut down our government. They're holding up 360 men and women who want to work for the government, they're not approving them, and they are highly qualified, and they're not even called nominees, they're not even controversial. These are people -- it is, you know the word slow walking? They're slow walking. So you have people trying to get in. They've left their jobs and Schumer, and all of the groups that you read about are not allowing these people to come into government, and I'm not even talking about people with a certain view, I'm talking about people that are noncontroversial, including judges, they just go maximum 30 days, 30 days. If somebody is going to be approved, it has to be approved, they take a -- we're up to 360 people, and it's been that way. The longest in the history of our country, think of it, by far, and the most people in this -- you have the longest and the most people. Honestly, the Democrats are a disgrace, they are, they are a disgrace. And the number one enabler of the Democrats is the fake news media right back there. And they really do, they stoke the fires of resentment and chaos. They report incorrect news. They report phony news, and you know, when I say -- when I say and come out with very, very strong statements about media, I'm talking about the fake news media. They are truly an enemy of the people, the fake news, enemy of the people. They really are. They are so bad. You don't even get it. You think like low taxes, you'd think that, like a strong military, no crime, strong borders, they don't, they don't. This November 6, you have a chance to reject these disgraceful political hacks, but you can only do it, you got to vote Republican, I mean, we have good people. I want to get along with them, but it's impossible in many ways. It's just really tough because they are so far left. They have been taken so far left, where Pocahontas is now considered a conservative in the Democrat Party. She's like a conservative person, Pocahontas Elizabeth Warren, she's considered like a conservative person. These people are -- they've gone crazy, they've gone loco. We're joined today by many terrific Republican leaders, including a friend of mine, and I have to tell you, Big Jim, he's, the biggest human being, I think, I've ever seen. Big Jim Justice, do we like him? He's our great Governor. Highest -- listen, this is West Virginia, highest ever -- first quarter surplus history of West -- 125 billion above estimate. Revenue growth by month July up 24.1%, 14.9%, 16.5%, total revenue growth for West Virginia up 18%. Thank you, President Trump, thank you. I'll be short -- I'll be short and sweet. Nobody can love this man more than I, except you, maybe. What he's done for West Virginia is off-the-chart. Now we've got to step up to the plate. We've got to step up, we've got to deliver him, Patrick Morrissey. We've got deliver him -- we have to deliver him an absolute, solid republican Congress. Come on now, get behind him. God bless all of you. Big Jim. That's a big man, and he's doing a great job. He really is. He's doing a great job. But look at these numbers. Hey, Jim, for July up 24.1% revenue growth. Think of that. I'd tell you, look, you people, you know, you are great to me. We won the state by 42 points. You know what 42 points is? And that's -- in all fairness it's not like an independent -- that's against a Democrat. We won by 42 points. You took me in, you took me in, but I produce, I produce. I produce. These are great people and they love not only the beautiful clean coal. They love lots of other things that we're doing well. West Virginia is back a lot faster than even I thought it could happen. You know it. I get a hug backstage by miners. These guys are massive guys, they grab me. I say, ""How would you like to make computer widgets? ""Nope, we want to dig coal."" Right. They have no interest in little delicate computer parts. So we also have with us the Secretary of State Mac Warner. Thanks, Mac. Great job. A man who, I hope you can support, because he's been terrific, really did a great job as a congressman, and he's going to the Supreme Court. He's going to be a justice. Evan Jenkins. Thank you, Evans, got to go and vote for him. A woman that everybody respects, she is running against a total wacko. Now I've seen this person, you can't have that person in Congress. That person is stone-cold crazy. A person that you know very well, and everybody in West Virginia loves Carol Miller. Carol? Pennsylvania, thanks, guys. Good luck, Carol. I think you're in great shape from what I hear, I hope so. Pennsylvania State Senator Guy Reschenthaler. Guy. Thank you. Thanks, Guy. We're also thrilled to be joined by Ohio Congressman, a friend of mine from day one, he supported Trump when it wasn't his fashionable, right at the beginning. He didn't go through nine candidates and then say: ""Oh, man, finally I'm going to support this guy."" We had a couple of them; they never tell me that now. They said: ""I supported you from the beginning."" This guy really did. Bill Johnson. Right across the water. And Congressman David McKinley. Great job, David. We like David, right? I like David. Thank you. Thank you, fellas. Also joining us is Brooke County, West Virginia native, a good friend of mine and somebody who truly knows about winning. This guy's a real winner. Coach Lou Holtz. Folks, great guy, he's a great coach, but he's a great guy too. Finally, I'm honored to introduce the person. We are all here to support the next senator from the great State of West Virginia. Somebody who's going to give us a vote for what we want every single time. There won't be any question about it, Patrick Morrisey. Patrick, please come up, Patrick. Well, thank you, President Donald Trump. Thank you, Governor Justice. Thanks to this amazing crowd, for this very warm welcome. Now, tell you, this guy really is making America great again, and we know -- we know he's also making West Virginia great again. Now for far too long, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, a Washington liberal Joe Manchin, all of these individuals, and the coastal elites they abandoned are West Virginia values. They practice political correctness, they advance liberal policies, they didn't put America first. But, fortunately, for all of us, there was one candidate, one man willing to fight back against political correctness and put America first, Donald J. Trump. This election, West Virginia has a very big decision to make. You could go back to the values of those who abandoned West Virginia, Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama or Joe Manchin, or you can stand with someone who puts you first, America first, and West Virginia first. The stakes in this election couldn't be higher, and the differences between myself and my opponent, dishonest Washington liberal, Joe Manchin, they couldn't be sharper. Guys, you have a choice. If you vote for Patrick Morrisey, you will be electing a conservative fighter with a record of results, who will advance the Trump jobs agenda. Vote for dishonest Washington liberal, Joe Manchin, you're gonna be empowering that same group of radical liberal obstructionist, the one you saw in the Senate circus this past week. Now, now, dishonest Washington liberal Joe Manchin -- Joe's got to go. Amen, brother. Now, dishonest Washington, liberal Joe Manchin has a history of abandoning West Virginia. He abandoned your gun rights, supporting Obama's radical gun control. He abandoned your values on life, backing planned parenthood. He abandoned your paychecks when he said no to the Trump tax cuts. He abandoned you when he supports amnesty, and when he opposed Trump's border wall. But we're going to build that wall. We're gonna build that wall. But it gets worse, Joe Manchin supported Hillary Clinton even after, hang on, even after she made clear, she wanted to take away our coal, our oil, and our gas jobs. Shame on Joe Manchin. And that's why liberal Joe's gotta go. Now, when I'm in the Senate, we're going to have a different approach. We're going to put West Virginia first. We're going to fight against all those unlawful and illegal regulations that hold that job creators. Like the one I defeated as your attorney general and the ones that President Trump is withdrawing. We're going to -- we're going to ignite the economy even more, we'll supercharge West Virginia. We'll make the Trump tax cuts permanent, and we're going to re-empower the people of The State of West Virginia with term limits to hold Washington politicians accountable. We'll stop the funding of Planned Parenthood and we'll take -- yeah, we will. And we're going to take back our West Virginia values and end the grunt grabs by the Liberals in Washington. And not insignificantly, we'll all stand for the national anthem. But I need your help. We're getting a lot of support from President Trump, in fact, because of his last trip, we're basically even in the polls, but we have a lot more work to do against the wily ways of these Washington politicians. I need you to get involved. I need you to volunteer. I need you to go online, at patrickmorrisey.com and donate and help me close the gap against the liberal ATM machine of Chuck Schumer and Joe Manchin. This race will likely decide the balance of power in the Senate, amen, brother, but remember those radicals in Washington, Schumer, Pelosi, Maxine Waters, and Joe Manchin, ooh, yes, they don't want to see our President succeed. They want to obstruct just like they did this week against Judge Kavanaugh. Ladies and gentlemen, we must confirm, Judge Kavanaugh. It's time to join our team today, because Joe's got to go. He's got to go. It's my honor to stand with President Trump to fight for you. We, unlike Joe Manchin, Hillary Clinton, and the radical liberals, will never abandon our American and our West Virginia values. and the one thing you will know is that, together, this team, we're going to continue making America great again, and we'll make West Virginia great again. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you, wow. Good job, Patrick. Thank you Patrick. Remember this, a vote for Patrick Morrissey is a vote to stand up for West Virginia values, right. A vote for Morrisey is a vote for me and for our agenda to make America great again or, as we will soon start saying, keep America great, right? Keep America. Keep America great. That will be our new theme very soon. I don't -- I don't want to switch yet, we're not even into two years, right? Make America Great Again. I can't use it in 2020. We can't because, by that time, if we go even like half of what we've done so we're going to have the new and Keep America Great it's a very important election. It will decide which party controls the United States Senate. A Democrat, controlled Senate will try to take away your Second Amendment, they're, going to take it away. They want to takeover American healthcare and destroy it. They want to make us Venezuela, that's what they want to do. You'll have Venezuela, a big version, erase America's borders. You know we fight for borders, but we -- hey, by the way, see the signs? ""Finish the wall."" That's a good -- Finish the wall. We are in the process. It's got another billion six, I want to get more, but it's coming. It's coming. We've built a lot of wall already and fixed a lot of wall, but we get that. It's not the easiest thing, because the Democrats know it's a thing we really want. It's very much of a signature, it's very big part of what we talked about. They get in the way. I know it for a fact. They said, we can't. We'll get things that are actually military, 700 billion and 716 billion, we get that. A wall is a tiny thing by comparison, but they want to fight that wall for political purposes, but we're building it. And I love the signs ""Finish it."", we'll get it finished. They want to kill and this will happen, as sure as you're standing or sitting, I don't know who has a better seat. you are you? I mean, this is a guarantee. Your coal mines and your miners are working. They will kill West Virginia coal, that's a guarantee. And they want to turn our federal courts into the political arm of the Democrat resistance. You see it, you see it. Now, Joe Manchin voted, no on tax cuts for American families. He just voted no. What are you going to say? He voted no on removing Obama's job killing regulations. By the way, we've got more regulation, that's why you have all these jobs, record-setting jobs, more regulations than any President ever in the history of our country. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. And we haven't been there for two years, but time is flying, isn't it? Time is flying, but we've cut more than any administration whether it was four years, eight years, or in one case much more than that. We've cut more Joe, also voted. No on repealing and replacing Obamacare, which we almost had done but I'll be nice now, we couldn't get a single Democrat vote. If we did, we would have killed it. We would have had great healthcare, but we're giving you a lot of great healthcare anyway. If you look at the plans, we're coming out with a great -- and we got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare. And Joe voted yes on something that not too many people in this room like, mass amnesty, mass amnesty. Joe refuse to stand up to the Democrat resistance, the radical open border dams. Pelosi and their new de facto leader, the legendary Maxine Waters. The Democrat Party will stop at nothing to run your lives, run down your values and ransack our nation's wealth. We've never done like this. They will turn it around, make it bad so fast getting money for the military was so tough, and to do that, we had to give them money for things that we don't want. We would never want, but now we have our military rebuilding, we've taken care of our military. We've got a massive number of fighter jets and rockets and missiles; we make the greatest military equipment in the world. We have ordered so much that other countries look at us and they say: ""Ahh, let's forget about them."" That's what we want. We don't want wars. But the only way you don't have wars. If you have a military, that's what we're doing we're in the process of building the strongest military we've ever had by far. The new platform of the Democrat Party. You notice I say Democrat Party? I hate the way it sounds that's why I say it because it's really their name, you know. It's not the Democratic Party that doesn't sound it flows nicer. The Democratic Party, but you know, the real name is the Democrat Party. I hate the way it sounds and that's why I use it, but it's still a real name. The Democrat Party -- so when you see Democratic Party, it's wrong. There's no name Democratic Party, that's a great name. They should probably change the name, if you think about it. Then I'd call them The Democratic Party. The Democrat Party is radical socialism, Venezuela, and open borders. It's now called, to me -- you've never heard this before, The Party of Crime. It's a Party of Crime, it's what it is. And to pay for their socialism, which is going to destroy our country. Democrats want to raid Medicare and destroy Social Security. So, what's going to happen? Democrats want to completely destroy Medicare with so-called Medicare for all. Yeah, for about two months before the country goes out of business. Robbing our seniors of the benefits they paid into for their entire lives, giving it to people that don't deserve it. Giving it, by the way, to illegal aliens who come into our country. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors, who have earned it and paid for it, and I will always fight for, and always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. You have to do it. You have to do it. some people think that's not a Republican thing to do. I don't care. And I'll tell you what, all of the Republicans are coming into that position now, all of them, and we'll do it the right way. Pre-existing conditions are safe. OK, just remember that. Pre-existing -- tell that to the fake news media when they write. Fakers. The Fakers. But we all have a good time. You know they can all endorsed me for the next election, have you heard? Because if they don't and if for some reason I didn't win, every single media outlet goes bankrupt. Can you imagine? Can you imagine if they had to cover Crazy Bernie, who the hell is going to watch? Or any of them? How about Cory Booker did you watch the performance? He ran in Newark New Jersey into the ground and now he wants to be president, right? What was the moment he said he had? I don't think so. I think we take Kirk Douglas in his prime. Do we agree? I think we did. No, he ran Newark into the ground, now he's out there acting, ""Oh, it's so wonderful, great. Oh, I dream of these people every night. The only thing I worry about is that some total unknown that nobody ever heard of comes along, but you know what, honestly, with what we've done on jobs on our country and our military, we're going to talk about our veterans what we've done. Look, in your case, energy, energy, look what we've done in energy with every -- Who the hell can beat us? I mean, who can beat us? Who can beat us? One of these people said recently, and they hated to say it, but the Trump has actually fulfilled more promises than he promised. It's true. Look what we're doing. 4.2% GDP, every point is $3.5 trillion dollars and 10 million jobs. And when I took it over, our country was headed south we were going down, we were going down, you'd be, instead of 4.2%, you'd be at 4.2% negative, negative 4.2% That's the way we were headed. Perhaps nothing is more dangerous than the Democrats push to abolish, very brave people that work for us, and they love us and take care of us called ICE. They want to abolish immigration enforcement entirely and they want no borders, they want no borders, let everybody just flow into our country. And he got some bad dudes coming in, but they're not coming in with us. We have set records on arrests at the borders. Nobody even close, and that's without the wall in those sections where we haven't been able to get the money because the Democrats won't approve. You have to understand, we have very small margins. You know they say we're the majority. The majority by what? If somebody has a cold, we can't take a vote. If you have a cold, if somebody is not feeling well, we say: ""Let's delay the vote for three days."" We don't have a major -- it's so close. It's so close. That's why we have to get more Republicans in. We will do something that nobody has ever seen before. The Democrat Party supports, totally, they love them sanctuary cities where crime pours in and they protect her. That unleash violent predators like MS-13 into American communities, leaving innocent Americans at the mercy of really, by the way, really ruthless animals, really ruthless animals Nancy Pelosi said, ""How dare he call a human being an animal?"" I'm sorry Nancy. These are the words, they're don't like guns, they like to use knives because it's more painful and it takes a long time. These are real bad people and we're bringing them out so fast. And you know who's doing it? Who's leading the charge, who loves doing it? ICE. Who the hell wants that job? ICE. ICE is doing the job, right? Right. ICE is doing that job. These are brave people. They go into towns in Long Island, where I grew up, right next to these places, I know them all. They used to be, you'd leave your door open, you'd, leave your window open. You go to sleep, nobody thinks. Now you -- it's like a fort, but not anymore. What's happened, is they go in like they're, liberating a country. It's like this is the United States, and ICE goes in and MS-13 they're afraid of ICE. You know why, because ICE is much tougher than they are, that's all they fear. And they go in and they grab them by the necks and they throw them the hell into a paddy wagon and they take them either to jail, and throw them the hell out of the country, it's very simple. It's very simple. And they cleaned out towns, they cleaned out towns of truly bad people, dangerous people. You saw what happened, I got to know mothers that have daughters, fathers that have daughters. In many cases, daughters, and in many cases, sons, but what they do to these incredible kids, walking home from school, going home with books to study and do homework and they intercept them and they're -- they're horrible, it's horrible and we're getting them out. But we have to re -- the Democrats. It's like, it's like, they don't even understand that there's a problem, it's incredible. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. So Republicans, not Democrats, they want to end ICE, they want to end a lot of things. Open borders. Can you believe it? How would you like this platform? We want open borders. We want high taxes, we want crime because basically, they're saying crime, so to have crime, they have high taxes, they have open borders. Oh, and by the way - and we don't want to fund the military. You have no idea how hard it is to get money from for the military, it's almost impossible. That was like a full- time job, but we got that money. We got a lot of buyers. In the Democrats, got 51 votes in the Senate. They would open our nation's borders. They would starve our law enforcement, they would starve our great law -- Do we love our law enforcement? Seriously. I've got a tremendous percentage of law enforcement vote, but you know, I think, I might have -- Do I get 100%. Let's say I didn't. Who the hell wouldn't vote for me from law enforcement? OK, we've done a lot. We've gotten a lot of surplus material from the military. You know, we had all this -- We had hundreds of millions of dollars of surplus material, and our previous administration, under no circumstances did they want to give this to law enforcement, because you know it's great equipment. It keeps the law enforcement safe, like trucks that are armored and things like that, so they didn't want to give it because they thought it presented a wrong image. I gave it, it's all out, they're all happy. We had a military, we had a sitting in storage rooms all over the country, getting old and probably costing us a lot of money. We gave it out to law enforcement and law enforcement does like us. If you want to secure our border. If you want to stop sanctuary cities, which even in California now. They don't want to be sanctuary cities anymore, they want out. You see it. They're rebelling in California, of all places, they're rebelling. If you want to protect American communities from really bad bad crime, then you need to vote Republican, Patrick Larson. Gotta vote Republican. This election is about security, and it's about prosperity. Here are just some of our extraordinary achievements. We've done things that nobody can believe. If I would have used these numbers during the campaign, the fake news would've said: ""Oh, it's so ridiculous, it's so ridiculous."" ""How can he say that."" I used much lower numbers than they said that. Economic growth last quarter was 4.1%, and it was just adjusted upward 4.2%, and it's going much -- it's going higher, folks. It's going a lot higher. Jobless claims. That's a beauty. Jobless. Think of that. Jobless claims just fell to a nearly 50-year low. Is that good? That's good, right? We've created over 4 million new jobs since the election, four million. Nobody would have said. If I would have said, ""Hey, we're going to create in less than two years, they would have said, ""You've got to be kidding."" We've list -- Look at this. We've lifted almost 4 million Americans off of food stamps. Wow. Pretty bad, huh. Now, No.1, we're taking care of people. No. 2, it doesn't cost us anything. I mean, that four million people that's a lot of money at cause. We've added, nearly, it will soon be 600,000 new manufacturing jobs. We weren't supposed to be adding jobs. We weren't supposed to be adding manufacturing jobs. And I'll tell you what. The most incredible of everything is, we are doing things with manufacturing. Companies are pouring back into our country and they're coming back into your state. They're, going to Michigan, they're going to Ohio, right here, they're going to Pennsylvania and North Carolina, and South Carolina. I was with the Prime Minister Abe of Japan. He's got many companies moving in, I said: ""Look, we have a big deficit with you, we take care of your military and we have a deficit."" What's going on? He said, ""We are moving many companies into the United States. And he is. And he's been. And many cou -- If you look, just take a look. Many countries are doing that because I don't like having deficits with every country. And China, we're taking them on very strongly. First time ever. Very Strongly. And they either open it up to make it fair and don't charge us what they're doing, because that's no good, or we just don't do business with them, it's a very simple thing. And in four months they've gone way down and I don't want them to go way down. I have great respect for President Xi and I have great respect for China, but they have not treated as well. We lost over the years $500 billion, we'd go $250 billion, $300 billion, $400 billion, $500 billion, $525 billion. We rebuild China. How stupid are we? No, h0w stupid are we. We build a car and we send it to China and they charge a tariff for a tax of 25%. They build a car and they send it to the U.S and it's two and a half percent, but we don't charge them. They don't have to pay, and I said, ""Why don't they have to pay at least a two and a half?"" Nobody could tell me why. Nobody so think of it. They charge us 25%, right? We charge them nothing. Other than that, it's a very fair deal. Now, how stupid is -- how stupid is it? So the stupid days are over, folks, I'm sorry. I mean, I love Saudi Arabia. They're great. King Salman, I talked to him this mor"
"Our country is respected again, remember that. We're respected again. Hello, Missouri. I'm thrilled to be back in the American heartland. I love you people. With thousands of proud, hardworking patriots. This is an incredible time for our nation. We have the best economy in our history today; today. In fact, the stock market -- which, to me, is jobs -- the stock market hit an all time high again. Think of it. And that would mean that 101 days we hit an all time high in the stock market; we. And I don't say me, I say we because it's about we; amazing people. We're bringing back our factories, reopening our mines. You know those mines? They're reopening. They're reopening. We love our miners. We love workers. And we're restoring our industrial might like nobody can believe. Nobody believes what's happening. After years of rebuilding other nations -- we're getting a little tired of that, right? We are finally rebuilding our nation and we are doing it with American grit, and skill and pride. Right? Our military -- do we love our military? Do we love our law enforcement? Do we love ICE? They're tough people. We need tough people to protect. They're dealing with tough people. That's the only thing that -- if you look at it, that's what they respect. They respect strength. They respect strength. Our military will soon be more powerful than ever before. And just today, I signed a new bill fully funding Veterans Choice for our great veterans. America is winning again, winning like never before, and America is being respected again because we are finally putting America first. And it's all going to start with Josh Hawley. We love Josh. We love Josh. He's a star. And he just said it -- I didn't say it -- he just said it. He said this place broke every record they've ever had -- look at this place. Now the fake news will never say that. They'll never report that.  They'll never report that. They will never report it. But that's OK, because we all know it. And by the way, obviously look at what happened in 2016. Obviously. Remember all the phony polls, the states that we were supposed to lose? And then 8 o'clock, the state closes. Donald Trump has won the state of Texas. Donald Trump has won... Remember? Remember? Remember for months, Texas was too close to -- you know, to call, remember? By the way, I have to tell you, Missouri was never too close to call, so that's good. That's good. But remember Georgia was too close to call. Remember Utah was too close to call. OK, so now it's 8 o'clock, they closed in Texas. The polls have just closed in Texas, Donald Trump has won the state of Texas. Donald Trump has won the state of Utah. Donald Trump has won the state of Georgia. I said, wait a minute, I thought it was so close? It should go all night, no? We won, like, in two seconds.  You know why? Because they're phony polls. They have phony polls.  They're called suppression polls. What they do is, you know, you're with your wife and you say, ""Alice, I love Trump, but he can't win because the polls have him -- he just can't win."" Suppression. ""So let's go to a movie and then sadly we'll go home and watch what turned out to be the most exciting night in the history of politics, right?"" That was some night. And all those guys, they may not like us, but you know what? About six months before the election, not this one coming up -- please go out and vote. Please go out. But in 2020, about six months before the election, every single one of those haters is going to endorse is because without us, they have nobody watching television. They have nobody.  They have nobody reading their phony papers. Nobody. So they're going to -- we expect endorsements from everybody. We'll get the New York Times, we expect to get the Washington Post, we'll get ABC, CBS, we'll get NBC -- that's a hard one to get.  You're right -- you're right. Tonight we're proudly joined by terrific Republican leaders from the great state of Missouri, including Lieutenant Governor Mike Kehoe. Mike, thank you very much wherever you are. A real friend of mine, and a great friend of my wife, Mr. and Mrs. -- a great friend of Melania, whose sends her regards by the way. She's home now. She said I like those people -- I like those people too, but he really is -- he's a great man, he's a great senator, he's respected by everybody -- everybody, Senator Roy Blunt. Thank you. Great guy. And another great guy -- he's big, he's strong, you heard him the other night when he did that whole deal going, and I said, What was that all about? Billy Long, what was that all about? He is, he's a great guy. And another great guy that has helped us right from the beginning, Congressman Jason Smith. Thank you, Jason. Terrific people. Finally, please welcome -- they said he's only going to be a minute -- we're going to have such fun. He's going to give us a lot of fun also -- please welcome the person we are all here tonight to support, a special man, a special talent, a man who loves this state, and he loves this country -- the next United States Senator from Missouri, Josh Hawley. Come on, Josh. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Let me just ask you a question: How about the leadership of President Donald J. Trump? You know, I've gotta share something with the president because actually, I have to confess, I let him down a little bit. President Trump said, ""I need you to get me the biggest stadium and we'll fill it full"", and Mr. President, I have to say, do you know we had to turn away about 20,000 people or something who could not get into the stadium to be here tonight to see this man. It's unbelievable -- it's unbelievable. Have you noticed -- have you noticed something about our president? When he makes a promise, he keeps it. When he makes a commitment, he delivers. And I tell you what -- I tell you what, he's delivering big for the state of Missouri and the United States of America, isn't he? I mean big. He said -- he said he was going to stand up for American workers, and he is -- bringing back jobs, bringing back jobs from overseas, paychecks on the rise. He cut your taxes. How about that? He said -- the president said -- the president said -- the president said he was going to put pro-Constitution judges on the bench, and he has. He has. Judges -- that's right. That's right. Wow. It's pretty good. Judges who love -- judges who love the Constitution, judges who love our country, judges like Brett Kavanaugh. And he said -- and he said -- and the president said he was going to secure our border, and he is.  That's right -- build it. Build it. But you know, I have to say -- I have to say. There's somebody in the state of Missouri who hasn't heard what you've been telling her.  There's somebody -- yes, it's true. There's somebody -- there's somebody who hasn't been willing to work with the president of the United States. That somebody is Claire McCaskill.  She hasn't listen to you. Do you know Senator McCaskill said that the border wall is embarrassing? That's her word, embarrassing -- embarrassing. She said she has mocked the president. She's mocked the president for wanting to build it. And now she is sponsoring the most radical open-borders bill ever introduced in the United States Congress.  It's a -- it's a terrible -- it's terrible. She wants to raise your taxes. She says she's going to vote no on Judge Kavanaugh.  I don't know who she's with, but she's not with the state of Missouri. So here's what I have to say -- here's what I have to say -- here's what I have to say. In 2016, this man and you made history. You made history in 2016. And now everything -- everything you've fought for, everything that he's fighting for, everything that you voted for is on the line. So how about this. This November, in this state, right here in Missouri, let's make history again. Let's make America great again. Thank you so much. God bless you. We need Josh in the Senate to fight for Missouri and really to fight for our whole country. We love our country. And we'll never ever get a vote from Claire McCaskill, and she's been saying very nice things. She's been saying very nice things. But you know what? She'll never ever vote for us. She just, as an example, Brett Kavanaugh -- a fantastic man, fantastic -- she just announced she won't vote for him. Can you believe it? And he was born -- you talk about central casting -- he was born -- they were saying it 10 years ago about him -- he was born for the U.S. Supreme Court. He was born for it. And it's going to happen. But she just announced she's not voting -- and, she'll vote against everything we want to do, including tax cuts. Figure that one out. So Claire McCaskill will never ever vote our way because she loves the swamp. She's part of the swamp and we have a true swamp in Washington. Just look at what is now being exposed in our Department of Justice and the FBI. Look at what's going on. Look at what's going on. And I want to tell you, we have great people in the Department of Justice. We have great people. These are people, I really believe -- you take a poll, I've got to be at 95 percent -- but you've had some real bad ones. You've seen what's happened at the FBI. They're all gone. They're all gone. They're all gone. But there's a lingering stench and we're going to get rid of that too. Claire McCaskill -- when I read about this sitting a beautiful, beautiful house called the White House. Did anybody ever hear of the White House? She revealed her true colors when she pretended to tour the state in an R.V., while she was actually flying around the state in her luxurious private airplane. And honestly, this is before I ever thought about running -- by the way, we decided to run, how did we do? How did we do? A senator, a good guy, said to me the other day -- it was very interesting because we were talking about, frankly, Judge Kavanaugh -- and I said we have to fight for him, not worry about the other side. And by the way, women are for that more than anybody would understand. And a really good guy, I mean, we usually agree. He said, sir, I've been in politics for 25 years. I've been a senator for many years. I really know what I'm doing. I said, sir, I've been in politics for two and a half years and I'm the President of the United States, so. True. True. And he's still my friend; it's fine. McCaskill doesn't represent the people of Missouri; that I can tell you. She represents the radical Democrats in Washington that are trying to take over. And what they're going to do with you, you know, if you look from the day of election, I just see the announcement today. Stock market's up 55 percent. Your 401(k)s -- your 401(k)s are up 50, 60, 70 percent in some cases. They get in and that wealth is going to disappear very quickly. It'll evaporate. It will. Claire McCaskill voted no on tax cuts, and that's tax cuts for the middle-class families. And she voted for the disaster that we're holding together, we had it defeated. Unfortunately, we lost a certain vote. But we lost all of the Democrat votes, when you think. We lost every Democrat. We would have saved a trillion dollars and we would have given you great health care, but we still will. We need some more Republicans. We need Josh, but we need more Republicans. McCaskill voted no on Kate's Law. How about Kate's Law? You see what's coming in? She voted no on Kate's Law. How do you vote no on Kate's Law? You know why she voted no? Because Schumer and Pelosi told her to vote no. And she voted no on enhanced vetting for refugees. A refugee comes in you don't know where they're coming from. I want to do -- we call it, a term I came up with, I'm very -- enhanced vetting. She voted no. But we're coming out with things over the next four weeks; you'll like it better than enhanced vetting. She wants to let everybody pour into our country. She wants to then give them health care. Next will be, let's also give them free education. Let's also -- let's also hurt the State of Missouri and every other state. You see what's going on in California. He wants to have open borders and everybody worldwide can pour into California, just pour in. And he's going to give you health care and education. You know what? That will be -- I think California will end up being larger than the United States. The whole world is going to come. It's really bad stuff. And they're going to kill your Medicare. And they're going to kill you Medicaid. They're going to kill everything that you cherish and that you want. McCaskill voted no on our new Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, how good is he? And as Josh said, she's not going back on a no vote on somebody who's truly spectacular, Brett. Yet, McCaskill voted for the liberal Obama judges who want to destroy your Second Amendment. They want to destroy your health care. They want to destroy your wealth. That's what they're going to do. They want to take it away. They want to take it away. You can work hard, won't mean anything. And you know what they want to do? They all as a group, they want to raise the hell out of your taxes; figure that one. Another thing, military, they don't want to take care of the military. We're always -- I can only tell you, I have to fight so hard to take care of our military $700 billion and we had to give up things that I hated to give up. But we had to build our military because it was depleted. It was in trouble. They fought so hard, not to take care of our vets and not to take care of our military. It's no good, doesn't work that way. Doesn't work that way. A vote for Claire McCaskill is a vote for Nancy Pelosi...  Chuck Schumer, and your new de facto leader of the Democrat Party, the legendary Maxine Waters.  The new platform of the Democrat Party is radical socialism and open boarders. A vote for any Democrat this November -- you've got to get out and vote, I know you're complacent. We had this great victory. I know that the odds are sort of against it, but I don't know why. We have the greatest economy in history. We have the greatest -- and so -- but they say -- hey, out of 100 years, like three times, whoever's in the White House loses the midterm. You lose the midterm, we're going to go through nothing but fights, we're going to be fighting to keep what you have, they're going to want to take it away. You've got to get out. Can't be complacent. It's fragile. You've got to get out. You know, a poll came out, they said everybody's going out in 2020, because they want to vote for you, they want to vote for the president. But they're not maybe coming out in 2018. Get out in 2018, because you're voting for me in 2018. You're voting for me. You're voting for me. A vote for any Democrat this November is a vote for massive regulation, massive taxes, and I hate to say it, massive crime, because crime comes with it.  The Democrat Party is held hostage by far-left activists, by angry mobs, Antifa, by deep state radicals...  ...and their establishment cronies. You ever see what happens when they take the masks of Antifa? You have guys -- you have guys that look like they live with mom and dad in the basement. They live in the basement of mom and dad's home. You know what that is? That's the size of their biceps, but they wear -- they wear the tough black outfits. No, I would never suggest this, but I will tell you, I -- they're so lucky that we're peaceful. Law enforcement, military, construction workers, Bikers for Trump -- how about Bikers for Trump? They travel all over the country. They got Trump all over the place, and they're great. They've been great. But these are tough people. These are great people. But they're peaceful people, and Antifa and all -- they'd better hope they stay that way. I hope they stay that way. I hope that stay that way. And they will, the Democrats, say and do anything to try and undermine the result of the greatest election in our country's history. That's what it is. They want to try and reclaim their corrupt power. Remember, remember, they were expected to win. And there was no way that Donald Trump can get to 270. You know, the Electoral College was set up so we can't win, except we had one problem: we won a lot of states that haven't been won for many years by Republicans. A lot of states. A lot of states. I remember watching the fake news, and one man -- I like him, not as a person, but I like watching him, especially when he's upset. And he said, you know, I think -- I think Trump is going to win Wisconsin -- that hasn't been won in many -- I think Trump is going to win Michigan! Oh no, no, no, no, no. Remember with the hand, that it starts to shake. He's very confident at the beginning, Senator, OK, this could be a quick game day. And then they say wait a minute, wait a minute, oh my god, woah, woah. Trump just won the state of Florida. Woah, woah, woah. No. No. What happened? They don't say she spent about five times more money. You know, in the old days, if you spent less money and win, that's a good thing. Nobody ever says that. Do they ever say I spent like 25 percent of the money that she spent? So here's the thing -- then they said, wait a minute. Oh no. Remember the firewall? The firewall, the guarantee, she spent a fortune, was going to be the great state of North Carolina, and we love them and they're going through a lot tonight. We love them. We say prayers for them. And South Carolina. North Carolina, South Carolina. South Carolina's going to be hit really hard tomorrow at about 3 o'clock. That water is pouring down, it's on its way, it's going to be horrible, but they're -- they're ready. I was just there. So while we talk about them, I have to say God is with you, we are with you. And -- and we have the best first responders, military, law enforcement, and FEMA, the best in the world, and they're ready. They're all equipped, so we'll be there. We're all ready. They'll be -- they'll be OK. But you remember all of that. So then we won the firewall, North Carolina. We won South Carolina easily, but that was expected. But then we won the firewall. Donald Trump has won the state of North Carolina. Now the hand is quivering as it goes to -- you know the board? And that board is becoming redder and redder and redder and they say, woah. And then a state I love, Pennsylvania, hasn't been won in a long time. Hasn't been won in a long time. Republicans always think they're going to win Pennsylvania, they just never do. And we were way up in Pennsylvania with only 2 percent of the vote left and then 1 percent of the vote left and if I left every single vote -- I won it by a lot. They refused to call it. I said wait a minute. If I lose every vote, I win it. Why aren't they -- it took them, like, until 2 o'clock in the morning, they refused, but that's when Wisconsin and Michigan kicked in surprisingly except not surprisingly to us because we'd go and we'd have crowds like this and I kept saying, well let's see, she had 400 people, I had 32,000, explain. What are we going to lose this state? Why do we lose this state? And we didn't. And we didn't. That was a great evening. One of the greatest nights in the history of our country, but one, far less importantly, one of the greatest nights in the history of television. They did very well. They're doing very well on our backs. The so-called ""resistance"" doesn't accept the will of the American people. They don't believe you have the right to run your own country, control your own lives or defend the nation's borders, traditions, and heritage. But the American people will never ever be silenced. You will never be silenced. We'll never be intimidated. And this November, you will make your voice heard, just like you did two Novembers ago, in the most exciting evening for a longtime, maybe ever. Also at stake in this election is Medicare. Republicans want to protect Medicare. Democrats want to raid Medicare to pay their socialism. We'll end up being another Venezuela. That's not going to happen to us.  And Josh -- Josh will help -- Josh will help a lot. That vote means so much. Democrats want to destroy Medicare with so-called ""Medicare for all"" -- robbing our seniors of the benefits they paid into for their entire lives. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and paid for it. For many, many years, they've been paying for it. Democrats even want to give welfare and free health care to illegal aliens.  All paid for by you, the great American taxpayer. Republicans want to protect the safety for truly needy Americans, not for illegal aliens. We don't want that -- can't afford it. I'd be nice. You can't afford it. When it comes to health care, republicans will protect patients with preexisting conditions. They're going to protect preexisting conditions. I will always protect preexisting conditions, and Josh Hawley will always preexisting conditions. Very important. The policies of the Democrat Party -- and you know, everybody always says the Democratic Party. It's not the name. It sounds better. I like saying it better. It's sweeter, right? The Democratic Party is better than the Democrat Party, but it's really the Democrat Party. And why should I make it sound sweet, right? No, it's -- it is. It's the -- it's not called the Democratic Party. That's actually a nice name. They probably should change their name. I don't want to give them any ideas. But to me, it's the Democrat Party, and they aren't just extreme. They are, frankly, dangerous, and they are crazy. They're crazy. Democrats want to abolish us. In other words, they want to abolish immigration enforcement entirely, let violent sadistic gangs, like MS-13 -- the worst gang in the world -- run wild in our communities. I've seen our guys from ICE. I've seen it, I've watched it. MS-13, they're tough, but they're not tough like our guys. They're not tough our ICE people. Our guys and girls, they go in there -- man, I'll tell you, it's unbelievable. And that's what we need. You know, you can't have, like, Oh, isn't he a wonderful person. He's nice. He's -- we need tough people. These are tough people. These are sadistic, mean, sick criminals. ICE is incredible, and we're going to protect them, and we're going to cherish them, and we're going to thank them very much for keeping our communities safe. Democrats want to open borders, which equals massive crime. Republicans want strong border, and we want no crime. We don't want crime. Democrat support sanctuary cities, cities of crime. They'll flood our streets with criminal aliens and violent gangs. Republicans believe that our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. Democrats want to dismantle law enforcement and attack the hero's who keep us safe. Republicans stand proudly with the brave men and women of ICE, border patrol, and law enforcement. Everyday, our heroic ICE officers are tracking down gang members, predators, thieves and killers. And we are either throwing them the hell in jail or throwing them the hell out of our country.  So never made a lot of sense to me, somebody who wants to open borders -- crime, and somebody wants higher taxes. Think of it. So you got open borders, you have crime. Here's their platform, crime and high taxes. I don't like that. I don't think I could win. That's not a good platform. Crime -- think of it, crime and high taxes. Now there's only things we won't even get in, but how do you get past those first two things? Crime -- that's the democrats, crime and high taxes. And we're doing things about it, folks. And by the way, we had a record this month, on the border. We took in and arrested more illegal's coming across -- many of these were not good people -- than we've ever done before -- ever done before. And if they'd let us build that wall faster, if Congress could give us those funds -- the thing I do best is build -- I could build the whole thing in a year. We're building 1 billion 6, another 1 billion 6, now it's another billion, but a lot of people have promised us, right after the election, they're going to approve the rest of the wall. Lets see if they keep their promise -- lets see. Let's see. But, it's getting built -- it's getting built anyways. It's not easy -- yep we're building it, not easy. People think it's easy. You know Schumer and Pelosi...  They have bigger things -- they have bigger things, but the thing they want to obstruct and resist the most, even though they were in favor of a wall in 2006 -- they were in favor of it. Ask Israel whether or not a wall works. It works. It works. And by the way, speaking of Israel, the embassy is now open and happily living in Jerusalem. It would've been 25 years before it was built. You know the story, right? Our great ambassador, David Friedman, one of the most successful lawyers in New York -- he loves Israel, he wanted to be the ambassador to Israel. I put him there. And people were pressing for Israel, and they were pressing for Jerusalem to be the capital, move the embassy. And what happened is every president, for many, many presidents, said we're going to do what they campaigned, and then they lied. They didn't have the guts to do it. And I know why. Because when it was obvious for people that I wanted to do it, I was called by virtually every leader in the world. People were calling me and they say, please don't do it. Please don't do it. Please don't do it, and I got a little bit tired of trying to be nice, so the last week I just didn't take their calls and I said, and I said, Ill call them back in a week. Kings, queens, presidents, prime ministers, dictators, they're all calling; they all worry. They didn't want to me -- that's why the other presidents didn't do it. I mean, I've never had such pressure put on -- everybody was going, don't do it, so I just said I'll call them back after I do it, that's much easier. Then I say, hi, you know what -- you ever do this? Get me so and so, Prime Minister so and so, it was just approved. So a day later, ""Hi, how're you doing? What's up?""  And they go, oh, well we called for a certain reason, but that's OK. But the great story is I had a bill essentially, on my desk for the embassy cost in Israel. I said, ""How much is that? I'm sorry, what's this?"" ""Sir, that's the embassy in Israel."" I said, ""What is it?"" ""Sir, it's going to cost approximately $1.1 billion."" I said, whoa, we know how to build -- two friends of mine are builders right here. They hear -- they haven't spent that much in their whole life, and they built a hell of a lot of stuff. I mean, you know, like it's a one story building right -- ""$1.1 billion, sir."" And I actually had it half signed. I had Donald on it -- Donald -- I said, ""What?"" So I call David Friedman, I said, ""David, let me ask you question. They want to spend $1.1 million on the embassy"". It's crazy -- I mean it's crazy. He said, ""Could I call you back? Because I have an idea."" I said, ""Call me back"". Now he knows Israel really well. So we own a piece of land in Jerusalem. He said it's the best location. We have a lot of great locations because we're there early, you know, like post offices are great locations because you're there early; we're the first ones. Anytime you get a post -- real estate 101 -- anytime you get a post office, it's a good location. They're there there -- you know, it's early. So, David, said you know ""There's a piece of land that we have that's fantastic. It's got a building on it; I'd like to look at it."" And I said, look at it. He calls me back, he says, ""It's fantastic, it's very big -- we can have setbacks, we can do everything we're supposed to do, and there's a building on it. And, sir, you don't have to spend $1.1 billion."" I said, ""What do you think it'll cost to renovate the building?"" He said about $190,000. I said... I said, ""What?"" He said, yes. It's the best site you can have. We have the best site, very big. You know, you want it set back for the obvious reasons. I said, ""$190,000?"" I said, ""David, that almost -- does this make sense? I hate to say this -- it sounds too cheap.""  He said, ""No, we're going to use the finest Jerusalem stone."" It's a beautiful stone. People use it, spend a lot of money. There, they have a lot of Jerusalem stone, you're in Jerusalem. But...  ... I said, David, ""Will you do me a favor? Let's do it, but make it $400,000, OK? Make it beautiful, David. Make it beautiful."" He said OK. So here's the story, $1.1 billion and it will never get built. It wouldn't be built for 25 years. As opposed to $400,000 and we just opened the most beautiful embassy -- it's been open for seven months. Seven months. So we saved essentially, over $1 billion -- actually, we really saved $1.1 billion, you want to know the truth. But we saved $1.1 billion. We opened it up in four months. It took four months. We had the big ceremony. And it was -- it's just incredible and the people love it. And you know who loves it? Evangelical Christians love it. They love it. They love it. They love it. And we can do that in 100 different ways. I could tell you story after story about costs where we're defending wealthy countries and not being reimbursed. We're defending wealthy, wealthy countries and we're not being reimbursed, OK? So we're doing it step-by-step. Go to the wealthiest countries in the world, you know, we've been defending you for like 30, 40 years. It's time you sort of help out a little bit here, folks. And they're going to do it. They're going to do it. A lot of them. They're going to do it. So this election is about security and it's about prosperity, the trade deals. These trade deals are incredible. We didn't even negotiate them. They were ripping us off. We were being ripped off by allies and enemy -- we were being ripped off by anybody. So here is just of our great achievements: economic growth for last quarter hit 4.2 percent, unthinkable. Unthinkable. Jobless claims just fell to a nearly 50-year low; jobless claims. Isn't that nice? Think of it, jobless claims. So number one, the people are happy. Number two, the country's saving a fortune, think of it. Jobless claims fell to a 50-year low. We've created over 4 million new jobs since our election. We've lifted almost 4 million Americans off food stamps, saving a fortune and they're happy. We've added nearly 400,000 new manufacturing jobs, remember? You'll never have another manufacturing job, right? He's the guy. You'll never have another manufacturing job, remember the magic wand? What are you going to get, a magic wand? Yes, I got a magic wand. And very soon, it's going to be 600,000. And you saw Apple, Tim Cook, great guy. They're bringing in $350 billion and they're going to be building facilities all over, including an incredible campus. And $230 billion is coming from offshore because of our new tax bill. It's coming from offshore. And they're spending it in our country; our country. Household incomes among Hispanic Americans have just set a new record, think of that. Income for Hispanic Americans has set a new record. Hispanic American unemployment recently reached the lowest rate in recorded American history. African American unemployment recently achieved the lowest rate ever recorded in our country's history. Remember? I used to say what do you have to lose, right? What do you have to lose? People would say oh, no, you shouldn't say that. That's not nice. I said of course I have to say that. For years, African Americans voted for Democrats, for 100 years. And for 100 years they were lied to. They were cheated. And I said what do you have to lose, and now we have the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country for African Americans. And we have just started. We've just started. We haven't even been here for two years. Asian American unemployment has also achieved all time historic lows. The poverty rates for African Americans and Hispanic Americans have reached their lowest levels in history. Poverty rates the lowest in history. Youth unemployment has just reached its lowest rate in nearly a half a century, 50 years. Unemployment for Americans is very important. Without a high school diploma, recently reached the lowest rate ever recorded. That's somebody that never got through high school but they're great people. They're great people. But for the women, I failed. I failed. Women unemployment rate recently reached its lowest rate in 65 years. I'm so"
"Hello, Las Vegas. How are you? How is everybody? We love Las Vegas. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm thrilled to be back in Nevada. You always have to say that name just right. With thousands of proud, hard-working American patriots, the people of Nevada love our country, honor our values, and always respect our great American flag. And except for a lot of the fake news that you see from these people back here...  this is an incredible time for our country. America is winning again. America is being respected again. Because we are finally putting America first again. We have the best economy in our history. And I have to tell you this, if our opponent got into office, which would have been a very sad, sad period of time...  instead of your... It is a pretty sad day, isn't it? Don't worry. It's all going to get better. It's all going to get better. But if our opponent got into office, your 401(k)s, instead of being up 52 percent in a short period of time, would have been down 52 percent. That's what was going to happen. That's what was going to happen. That's where it was going. Wages, right now, are rising and poverty is -- you see it. Poverty is plummeting. Jobless claims just hit a 50-year low. Fifty. Five-oh. And the stock market today just hit another all-time high. We're fighting every day for our factories, our ranchers, our great miners, our farmers, and we are now the largest producer of energy in the entire world. And it's not by luck. We're rebuilding our military. We're crushing the tariffs. And we're taking care of our great veterans. We're taking care of our veterans. First time in a long time. We've also just identified the first remains of our fallen warriors from North Korea, these incredible heroes, to now lay at rest in American soil. A lot of progress being made on North Korea. Lot of progress. Do you remember, before I came in, it looked like we were going with war with North Korea? Now we made a lot of progress. Relationships are getting better and better. And we have our hostages back. And there's no more nuclear testing. And there's no testing of missiles and rockets over Japan. We're doing well. And we're getting our remains back. Very important. We believe no American should be left behind. So we have midterms coming up. And you remember when we had that great, great election, almost two years ago. Can you believe it? And do you remember the tears from the fake news media, when it was obvious that we were going to win?  And you know what? They're still crying. Look at them. They're still crying.  They're still crying. And let 'em cry. They don't know what the hell happened, but it happened, and that's why we're setting all-time records. That's why we're doing so well. But we have to get out for the midterms. Promise me, you got to get out for the -- don't be complacent. You got to get out for the midterms. You got to vote. You got to vote. We need more Republicans. You know, when they say we have a majority, it's like this. It's like this. If somebody has a cold, we don't have a majority that day. It's like we have to have more Republicans in office. We'll get everything we want, so fast. We've got to have it. So tonight, we are joined by some really terrific friends of mine and Republican leaders from the great state of Nevada, including two great candidates for Congress, Cresent Hardy, Cresent? Where's Cresent? And somebody that's been supporting me a long time, and he has shown such incredible stamina and loyalty and friendship, and we got to get him to win this race. Danny Tarkanian, Danny? Thanks, Danny. What a great guy! Thank you, Danny. And, Danny, thank you for everything. You really are -- you've done a great job. Thank you, man. They're going to get you in. Vote for Tarkanian. Also, your next governor, a very popular guy in these parts, with a great family, Adam Laxalt. Adam? And another friend of mine who really was outstanding, because, you know, I have a little -- to use an interesting word -- bias for this area. I love this area. You know the word bias? They've been talking about bias. Is there bias? Yeah, there was a lot of bias. You know that. But I have bias for this area and, also, for our great GOP chairman Michael McDonald. Finally, I want you to please welcome the person that we're all here for tonight. Now, I have to say this. We started out, we weren't friends. I didn't like him. He didn't like me. And as we fought and fought and fought, believe it or not, we started to respect each other. Then we started to like each other. Then we started to love each other. And the fact is -- and the fact is, he has been a tremendous supporter ever since I won the election. He's always been there. We can count on his vote. I mean, Wacky Jacky will never vote for us, folks. Never. She's wacky. She's never going to vote for us.  You can count on his vote for Second Amendment, for tax reductions, for regulation cuts, for judges. Oh, look at our judges! Oh, what's going on?  You know, one of the reasons I was elected was because you believed that I was going to pick great Supreme Court justices. And Brett Kavanaugh... And I'm not saying anything about anybody else, but I want to tell you that Brett Kavanaugh is one of the finest human beings you will ever have the privilege of knowing or meeting. A great intellect, a great gentleman, an impeccable reputation, went to Yale, top student, went to Yale Law School, top student. So we got to let it play out, but I want to tell you, he is a fine, fine person. So, he's got tremendous support. I can tell you that. Tremendous. Just like Neil Gorsuch, who's now on the Supreme Court, has tremendous support. So we'll let it play out. And I think everything is going to be just fine. This is a high-quality person. And a man that agrees with that, and right now, his vote is more important than mine, because he's got to help Brett get in. And I'll tell you what? He respects him just like I respect him, but with Dean, we can count on him. With Jacky, she's never going to vote for us. She may talk it. She even says, you know, a lot of the states like, where they like Trump, these candidates on the other side, they get up and they talk nicely about me, but they're never going to vote. They say, oh, Trump's wonderful, we like him a lot. You know, I won the state by like 34 points and they get up and they say, oh, we like him a lot. He's great. He's wonderful. But they're never going to vote for us, so it doesn't matter. I'd rather have them say bad things about me and give us their vote. They're never going to vote for us. Because they're voting for Nancy Pelosi. They're voting for...  They're for the new de facto leader of the Democratic Party, Maxine Waters.  And they're voting for cryin' Chuck Schumer. Cryin' Chuck.  Whereas your incredible senator, Dean Heller, is going to be with us all the time. Come on up here, Dean! Come on up here, Dean. Dean Heller. Thanks. Hey! Boy, does this president know how to pack the people in one room? This is incredible! Mr. President, I think he just turned Nevada red today. Mr. President, welcome to Las Vegas! Home of the Running Rebels. Home of the Golden Knights. And the future home of the Las Vegas Raiders! Mr. President, we have 300,000 veterans in the state of Nevada. They're in front of us, and they're behind us. And we're thrilled to have them with us today. They want to thank you for delivering a better health care system at the V.A. Mr. President, our veterans want to thank you for giving them the benefits and the support that they deserve. And, Mr. President, we have thousands -- thousands of military men and women that serve here in the state of Nevada. They want to thank you. They want to thank you for funding our Armed Forces, so that they can do their jobs and serve our country. Mr. President, our military men and women want to thank you for the largest pay raise in the last 10 years. But, most importantly, Mr. President, thank you for putting Nevada back to work. Because of your administration, Nevada families have more money in their paychecks. Nevada families have more money in their pockets. And, Mr. President, because of this stock market that you just mentioned, they're doing better with their pensions and their 401(k)s. Mr. President, it's an honor to work with you and putting Nevada back to work. Thank you very -- very much, Mr. President. OK. Thank you, Dean. Thank you, Dean. Thank you, Dean. And Dean really is a -- a champion, and I can tell you, I work with him. He's a champion for our workers, our families, and for our veterans. And we have to keep him. He led the charge in Congress to pass the most significant veterans reforms in half a century, including the V.A. Accountability Act. You know what that is. That means people that work in the V.A. are accountable. If they don't treat our veterans well, if they don't do a good job, if they're sadists -- and you have that -- if they steal -- and you have that -- we say, sorry, but you are fired! Right? Before you couldn't do that. You couldn't do it. Now you can do it. That's been 45 years they've been trying to get it. It doesn't sound like much. It's everything. So much. And, most importantly, 46 years, V.A. choice, this is where a veteran has to wait long periods to see a doctor. No longer. They now go and see a private doctor if there's a line. They don't have to wait for 12 days, for 20 days, for 40 days. They go see a doctor. We pay for the doctor. And they get taken care of. They get taken care of. And Dean has led the effort in Congress to fully fund Veterans Affairs. It's a big deal. And he's been really great. He really has. So I just want to say, there's been no better friend. We started off slow, but we ended up strong. I've had no better friend in Congress than Dean Heller. So, thank you. Thank you, friend. We've got to elect Republicans. That means our great congressmen, potential congressmen, and we have to get Dean to fight for Nevada, to fight for our heroes, and to help us make things honest around here. You know what's going on. So we're going to drain the swamp. Drain the swamp.  Early voting, so important. Early voting starts in exactly one month, October 20th. So you can vote early, but you've got to get out and vote. And remember this. Dean's Democrat opponent Wacky Jacky, Jacky Rosen, she doesn't get it. Jacky Rosen is bought and paid for by her donors, 100 percent. She doesn't even want to go to a debate. We think she doesn't want to debate. I said, hey, Dean, when's the debate? And he said, she won't debate me. That's not good. That's not good. Rosen doesn't represent Nevada's values. She represents the extreme liberal values of her out-of-state donors, funding almost 90 percent of her campaign. But even that, just so you understand, she's going to do whatever Pelosi and Schumer tell her to do, OK? It doesn't matter.  Every one of them, they come in and they say, oh, we want to be bipartisan. They never vote for us. Jacky Rosen voted no on tax cuts. You know that? She voted for the disaster, which is really being changed rapidly. You know, we got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing. The disaster known as Obamacare. Jacky Rosen voted against Kate's Law.  And she voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities, which nobody wants.  And Jacky Rosen voted against the V.A. Accountability Act. How do you do that? How do you do that?  So she, really, if you think about it, she voted for criminal aliens against veterans, for criminal aliens against citizens of our country. That's where she is. You don't want that. You don't want it. A vote for Wacky Jacky is a vote for the extreme agenda of those people, as Pelosi-Schumer-Waters is a vote for more taxes. Seriously. It's a vote for more taxes, more crime, and more onerous regulation, which stops everything from happening. You know, we cut regulations more than any administration in the history of our country, and I did it in less than two years. And it's one of the reasons that you have all of those jobs. It's one of the reasons that you can now go out and look for another job if you're not happy, because everybody wants to hire you and you're getting higher wages for the first time in 21 years. The new platform of the Democrat Party is radical socialism and open borders.  And I won't allow the United States of America to become the next Venezuela. That's what they want to do.  So we started the wall a year ago. We've done a lot. We've rebuilt a lot of sections of wall in San Diego and a lot of areas. We're starting a big, brand-new section. We spent $1.6 billion, then another $1.6 billion. Unfortunately, sadly, because of the Democrats' obstruction, only $1.6 billion -- sounds like a lot, but it's not when you're talking about what we're talking about -- $1.6 billion was just approved. I'm not thrilled, but after the election, they're all telling me were getting our wall the way we want it, so let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Let's see if they produce. In this election, and by the way, we want that wall. We want that wall. You know where I am. I could knock it out, because I do that well. That's what I do well. I build. We could knock that wall out in one year if they gave us the funds. I'll tell you what, though, if you look at Schumer and these people, even though they know you need the wall, they all voted for the wall in 2006. They vote for border security. And then they found out, oh gee, maybe from their standpoint, they can't do that, but they all voted for it. Hillary Clinton voted for it, right? Remember her?  But -- but I'll tell you this. I'll tell you this. Everybody knows...  How is our Justice Department doing?  So they all wanted the wall. We're going to get the wall. But it would be a lot easier if you get Republicans in there to vote, please. OK? A lot easier. Because their whole agenda -- on bigger things we can get. You see what we've gotten. We've got things that -- we got $700 billion to rebuild our military. We then got $716 billion to rebuild it second year, $700 billion and $716 billion. But their whole agenda, they know we want the wall. They want to oppose it. They want to obstruct it. They want to resist. You know the campaign? It's called resist. Honestly, they're lousy politicians. Their policy is terrible. But they're good at sticking together and resisting. That's all they can do.  And you are witnessing it right now, but we're going to be victorious. You watch. You watch. It's all they're good at. Resist. You know, they see the signs, ""Resist, resist."" Ugh.  We're for building great economies. They're for resisting. That's what it's all about. But this election, you have to vote for candidates who really know what your heart says, what your values are. You have some great, great Republican candidates, and a lot of people think that I'm always angry at Congress. I'm angry at Democrats because of what they're doing to our country. I'm angry at Democrats because of what they do to our country. Today's Democrat Party is held hostage by left-wing haters, angry mobs, socialist fanatics, deep-state bureaucrats, and their fake news allies. This is the big -- that's their best partner.  That's their best partner. The Democrat Party, their best ally is those people right there.  I can't tell you how dishonest and corrupt so much of the media is. I can't even explain it. Impossible to explain. Nobody would believe it. Nobody would. And I don't mean everything. You have some fine people. Some fine reporters. I know them. Fine reporters. Look, all the red lights are starting to go off.  You have some fine people and some wonderful, wonderful, professional reporters. But I watch the coverage that we get. And it is so unfair. We could have the greatest success, like, for instance, in North Korea, we're doing great. We're doing great, moving along. What do they say? There's nothing they can say. So they say he met with them. That's a defeat, because we met. They can't say anything else. We have the hostage -- they said he met! So many things they come up and then they say, oh, it's not moving fast enough. They've been covering these Democrats for decades, they haven't -- they haven't done a thing. I left. What did I leave, three months ago? We're doing great. But these are people that will take a great story and make it as bad as possible. They'll take an OK story and make it horrible.  So I cannot tell you strongly enough, that is the single greatest ally of the Democrats. Without them, they wouldn't be getting 5 percent of the vote. I'll tell you. It's true. It's fake news. Fake news. And you know, I have to say this, when I won the election, we won. I didn't win. We won. The whole thing, we won. The New York Times, like, they apologized to their subscribers because they covered the election so badly, because their subscribers say, how could this happen? He got nothing but bad stories, because people don't read the New York Times, because it's a dishonest newspaper. It's terrible. But I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what. When we won, they suffered. But I said -- I said -- I got one thing that I was -- in interviews, I say, you know the good news? I'll start now getting fair press. And it happened for about a week. And now they're worse than they ever were. But it doesn't seem to have much of an impact, does it?  Not much of an impact. So the resistance, to an extent, because of them, is filled with anger, because their policies have been exposed as failure. Real anger. The forces opposing us in Washington are the same people who squandered trillions of dollars overseas, who sacrificed our sovereignty, who shipped away our jobs, who oversaw the greatest transfer of wealth in the history of the world. That's what happened to our country. And we're now recovering. We're bringing back our jobs. We're bringing back our companies. In 2016, the American people voted to reject this corrupt globalism. Hey, I'm the president of the United States! I'm not the president of the globe.  You voted to make America great again. We are making America greater than ever before. And it's happening before your eyes. Bitter Democrats and their establishment cronies have spent every single day since 2016 trying to undermine the results of this incredible, historic presidential election that we won together. So we want to keep it going. And we want to do it the easy way. So this election day, go out there and vote. You got to vote. Everybody's got to go out and got to vote. I want to give a victory speech. I want to give a victory speech on the evening of Election Day, which is coming up very quickly. We're going to be talking about America. We're going to be talking about the greatness of our country. We're not going to let people undo the incredible job that we've done over the last almost-two-year period. So, don't forget, early voting, folks, early voting, October 20th. Now, we need -- we need in this election to do something special. I'm not saying there's ever going to be a time like we just went through. And a lot of people say that you're complacent now. You win the presidency and you're complacent. I don't think we're complacent. And I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what I did. I'll tell you what I did. Last week, I said update it. I said update it. I want to show you -- I don't believe there has been any administration in the history of this country that has done more in two years -- and we're not even up to two years yet -- than our administration. Look at this. So I said just write down some of the things. Each one, each one, point, point, point, four-and-a-half pages, almost 4 million jobs created since the election, more Americans are now employed than ever recorded before. Think of that. Today, more Americans are working than ever before. We've created more than 400,000 manufacturing jobs. Remember what President Obama said? You can't have manufacturing jobs anymore?  By the way, he's campaigning again. That's good news.  Because if that doesn't spur you onto work -- you know, when I was running, I swear, I think he campaigned harder than Hillary Clinton. And we won big, 306-223. Remember? There is no way, right? There is no way that Donald Trump gets to 270. No, we got to 306. Look, manufacturing jobs, which he said you'll never have again, I'm saying why won't you have it? We're not going to make anything? These are the best jobs. You know, manufacturing, they're, like, the best jobs, the most important jobs. Manufacturing jobs growing at the fastest rate in more than 30 years. Economic growth, so they say, when I took this over, I'm telling you, it was a sick puppy. We were headed down. So last quarter, we hit GDP 4.1, adjusted upward 4.2 percent, right? Look. Point, point, point. Look at this. New unemployment claims recently hit a 49-year low. You know what that means? Simple. That means people are working. They're working. You know this, you've been hearing, and now it's even better, African-American unemployment has recently achieved the lowest rate ever recorded. What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? Remember? Ha. Remember, I said, what do you have to lose? People said, oh, that's not nice. I said, hey, I go through a chart, it talked about the highest crime rates, the worst education, the worst homeownership. I'd go through -- and I just looked up one night and I said, you've always been with the Democrats. Vote for me. What the hell do you have to lose? Remember that, right? Right? Hispanic, any Hispanic here? I think so. Hispanic-American unemployment is the lowest rate in history. Any Asians? Asian? Asian? Any Asian? Asian-American unemployment recently achieved the lowest rate ever recorded in our history. You've heard me say this. Women's unemployment, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, recently reached -- I'm sorry -- only the lowest rate in 65 years. That's not as good. That's not as good as history. Soon -- this is important. Youth unemployment recently hit the lowest rate in nearly 50 years. So great. Under my administration, veterans' unemployment recently reached its lowest rate in numerous decades, whatever that may be. Almost 3.9 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps. I mean, how good is that? Think of it. They live better, and it doesn't cost us anything. Right? How good is that? We have companies now under the pledge to America's workers, they're training, under our vocational programs, workers, there's never been anything like this. We have -- retail sales surged last month, up over 6 percent over last year. We signed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in the history of the United States. As a result of the tax bill, small businesses will have the lowest top marginal tax rate in more than 80 years. That's not bad. We got, through a little work and a little coordination, the United States bid for the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. We got it. That was us. We just got the U.S.-Mexico-Canada -- we just got the World Cup in 2026. We needed a lot of... I told you about the record number in history of regulations, that's such a big deal. We enacted regulatory relief for community banks and credit unions so they can now go and loan you money again. Last month, the FDA approved more affordable generic drugs than ever before in its history. And one of the things we did with the FDA is a thing called -- I love the name -- right to try. You know what that is? It was that, if you were sick, terminally ill, and we had a drug in the hopper that looked like it was really working out, this country for 50 years would not let you use that drug. They'd say, no, it may harm you. Well, you're terminally ill, so they couldn't get -- and there was a reason. I'm -- not that easy. A lot of liability, a lot of everything, between the insurance companies and various different things, including government. I got it done. It's called right to try. So now, instead of if you have money -- if you don't have money, there's -- you just go to your room. If you have money -- I know people, they traveled all over the world begging for a cure. We have the greatest medical people, the greatest medicines in the world. Now you have the right to try, and it's going to work plenty. It's a big thing. We just secured $6 billion for the new funding to fight the opioid epidemic, $6 billion. You'll like this. We withdrew the United States from the job-killing, income-killing Paris climate accord. That was costing our country. And we have the cleanest air now in the world. We have the cleanest water. Remember this. I'm an environmentalist. I want crystal-clean water. I want crystal-clean air. That's what we want. But I also want jobs to come to our country. So that was good. We secured a record 700 -- listen to this. We confirmed more court judges, think of this, than anybody. And we're going to get -- we just got Neil Gorsuch, I told you. We're going to get Brett. We've got great people. Look at this. We moved the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. We're protecting -- remember they said you'll never get that. They said that about everything. You'll never get that, you'll never get elected, you'll never this. Ladies and gentlemen, the winner is Donald Trump. Well... Remember the tears? Crying, crying, oh. Crying, crying. Ladies and gentlemen, the next president of the United States -- this is on television -- and I say, oh, don't cry, please, I want to be happy. Don't cry. Now they're crying more than ever! Except you know they're torn. Number one, they're crying, but they're making more money than they ever made because of us, because their stocks are up. But you know what's going to happen with these -- I tell them, about six months after we start, six months before the election, they're going to endorse Donald Trump for president. You know why? Because if they don't, those broadcasting companies, the New York Times, all of those, they are going bankrupt so fast. So they'll be endorsing me. They'll be endorsing me. So I could go on for page after page after page. Look at that. Page after page. And to me a big thing. We're renegotiating the worst trade deals ever made by any country at any time. So, Democrats, I had to bring that out, you know, just boom, boom, boom, why not? Democrats want to give welfare and free health care to illegal aliens funded by the American taxpayers.  How about this clown in California who's running for governor? Now, think -- just think. We get a lot of people from California that moved here, but how about this guy? Wait. He announces he wants open borders, that means just pour in, and then he wants to give them health care, education, everything. You know what's going to happen? California is going to have a billion people within a very short period of time. Now, I think -- and somebody has to ask, who's going to pay for this? And do you know how bad it's going to be? You talk about waiting on line for the vets, which we saw? You'll be waiting on line for 10 years. It's the craziest thing I've ever heard. Open borders, come on into California, all over the world they're going to be pouring into California. Republicans want to protect the safety net for the truly needy Americans, people that need help, not for illegal aliens that come in to our country illegally. And when it comes to health insurance, Donald Trump and Republicans will protect patients with pre-existing conditions. We're going to do that. We want to do that. Democrats want to destroy Medicare with so-called Medicare for all. It's going to be bust before it even gets open. Robbing from our senior citizens -- you know that, it's going -- it's going to be one of the great catastrophes ever. The benefits they paid for their entire lives are going to be taken away. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and they paid for it for their entire life. They paid for it. The Democrat health care plan would force every American onto government-run health care and virtually eliminate all private- and employer-based health care plans. In other words, you're going to have really bad health care. It's going to cost a lot of money. Their plan would cost $32 trillion and require at least the doubling of your federal income taxes, and probably much higher than that.  The Democrats would bankrupt the safety net through totally unlimited and uncontrolled immigration. You will see crime like you've never, ever seen before. The policies of their party aren't just extreme. Frankly, they're dangerous, and they're crazy. So what I want you to do -- remember, Danny and Dean and these people, you're going to go out and vote, because we're going to take this country -- and we're almost there -- remember, it's make America great again, but very shortly we're going to be changing that logo to keep America great. Keep America. And we're going to lower taxes.  We're going to lower taxes. They want to raise your taxes. They want to double and triple your taxes. And we are going to save and we are going to cherish ICE, ICE. Democrats want to open borders, which equals massive crime coming into our country. Republicans want strong borders, and we want no crime. So here it is. We're going to make our country stronger than ever before. We're going to make our country richer and wealthier, and in so -- you need that. Look at how well we're doing. We're not ever going to apologize to other countries for our great success or for our great country. You now have a president who is standing up for America. We're standing up for your values. We're standing up for Nevada. And we're standing up for our great national anthem. So we're going to do things. And you know what I've been saying. We're going to start winning again. We're winning now much bigger than I ever thought at a much earlier level. Who would have thought this was going to happen? We thought it was going to happen, but not this fast. Remember this. All during our campaign, I said we're going to start winning again. And you're going to have your representative, Dean Heller, and you're going to go to him, we love this, don't we? And you're going to say, Dean, please see the president. Nevada is winning too much. We can't stand it. We just can't take it. And Dean is going to come to the Oval Office, he's going to say, Mr. President, please, sir, stop winning so much, the people of Nevada can't take it any longer. And what am I going to say? I'm going to say, sorry, Dean, we're going to keep it going. Look, here's the story. We really have turned it around. We're respected again as a country. Every time a person comes in to the Oval Office, a president, a king, a queen, a prime minister, they say, Mr. President, congratulations on what you've done with this country. It's true. We've never seen anything like it. All the time, I mean, I mean all -- almost all -- I have to be a little bit -- otherwise, I'll get -- almost all the time, they say congratulations. Some of them are saying that they're emulating us, but most importantly, again, we are respected. We are really respected for what we're doing. And it's been a long time since our country has been respected. But we're respected again.  So, I love this state. I love the people of this state. I was here a lot. I was here a lot. I was here a lot before I did this political thing. By the way, how did that work out? That worked out OK. But, please, remember, it can be very fragile if you have the wrong people in Washington, D.C. It can all end very quickly. Bad things can happen to the economy very quickly. It doesn't take many bad decisions. And they will make all bad decisions. We can't let it happen. So I give you a pledge: We're going to work harder than ever before. We're going to work smarter than ever before. We are going to do things that nobody thought was possible. And that's already started. So, go out and vote. You're not letting me down. I'm never, ever going to let you down. Thank you very much. We'll be back very soon. Vote for Danny. Vote for Dean. Vote for all of them. We "
"Hello, Montana. This is going to be a lot of fun. Thank you. There's no place like a Rosendale rally, forget Trump. Rosendale. But there is no place like a Trump rally, right? We have a good time. We have a good time. And in the election, we won this state by a lot. That was not close. But I am thrilled to be back in Big Sky Country with so many of my great friends and true American patriots. Thank you. Thank you. From the Rocky Mountains to the Great Plains, the people of Montana love our country, love our country so much. They honor our values, and you always respect our great American flag. You see what's happening. This is an incredible time for our nation. We have the best economy in history. The stock market is at record highs. Unemployment is at historic lows. And more Americans are working today than ever, ever, ever before. That's a great stat, isn't it? Think of it. More Americans today. And it grows every week. Every week, it gets higher, higher. But more Americans are working today than have ever worked before in our country. A great stat. That's a big stat. Our coal miners are back to work. And we are fighting every day for our great ranchers and loggers and farmers, and we're winning that fight and we're winning it quickly. We're rebuilding our military, crushing the terrorists, and taking care of our veterans. America is winning again, and America is being respected again. As you all saw this week, the Senate is now considering a truly exceptional nominee for the United States Supreme Court, Judge Brett Kavanaugh. And he's doing really well. But do you believe the anger and the meanness on the other side?  Sick. It's sick! The whole country is now seeing his amazing intellect and his brilliant legal mind. Judge Kavanaugh deserves overwhelming bipartisan support. And I think he's going to be one of our truly great Supreme Court justices. So tonight we're joined by truly terrific Republican leaders from the great state of Montana, including a friend of mine, an incredible senator, somebody that works so hard, and I can tell you -- I don't want to embarrass him -- but I'm going to tell you, he loves you, Senator Steve Daines. Where is Steve? Thank you, Steve. Great job. Steve is a worker and he does an incredible job. You also have a great attorney general, who I've gotten to know over the years, Tim Fox, doing a fantastic job. Thank you, Tim. Thanks, Tim. Your secretary of state, Corey Stapleton. Corey? Thanks, Corey. State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and he's just -- I mean, this is a fantastic person, Elsie Arntzen. Elsie, thank you. Thank you, Elsie. Great job. Been fantastic. You are really -- she has done some job. I've heard all about you, your reputation. Thank you very much. And your outstanding Montana GOP Chairwoman Debra Lamb. So, Debra, how are we doing now compared to Election Day almost three years ago? Could you believe it? How are we doing? Better? Even better? Good. That's what we're doing in most states. And the states that we won, we're doing better. Thank you. Thanks. Great job. Great job, Debra. I'm also thrilled to be joined by Montana's terrific member of Congress, a true champion for Montana, and I'll tell you what, this man has fought in more ways than one for your state. He has fought for your state. Greg Gianforte. He is a fighter and a winner. He's a winner. Great. He loves your state. Thank you very much, Greg. Great job. Everybody has to get out and vote for Greg and vote for people that are going to vote for us, because without that, you're going to lose a lot of the things that we've won over the last two years. You're going to lose them, and you're going to lose them fast. Can't let that happen. But I'm here for a very specific reason. Please welcome the person that we have such respect for, he's now leading in the polls. But I don't want to say that. I want to say he's just a little bit, like, one or two points behind. Is that OK, Matt, for me to say that? But he is somebody who is going to be a phenomenal United States senator from Montana, Matt Rosendale. Matt, come on up. Matt? Where is Matt? Come on up, Matt. Come on up, Matt. Welcome back to Montana, Mr. President. This crowd is all here for you. And what a crowd it is. Thank you for fighting for us and for always putting America first. Montana is going to write a wrong this November, and we're going to send you the conservative reinforcements that you need to continue your good work. My promise to each and every one of you is that I will always put Montana first and stick with President Trump to make sure we advance his agenda. We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare and give you options on health care that you can actually afford. We're going to protect your public lands and fight against the liberals that are trying to grab your guns. We're going to confirm more justices like Neil Gorsuch and Kavanaugh, people that will uphold the Constitution and defend your Second Amendment rights. Speaking of the Second Amendment, we have some breaking news tonight. We were informed and learned last night that the NRA has endorsed my campaign. We're going to secure our border, enforce our laws, and build that wall. Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! We're going to keep this economy growing, your taxes low, and keep government off of your back and out of your wallet. We've all seen the problems with big government, politicians representing themselves and not us, intoxicated with privilege and power. They start worrying about the next election instead of the next generation. President Trump, I agree with you: We need term limits. That's why, if you elect me, I promise to serve no more than two terms. The people of Montana support term limits. They believe in doing your job and returning home, and so do I. President Trump, thank you for your support. We need everyone in this room and across this state to step up, and we can win this race. President Trump and I are counting on you to help us here. So tonight, I humbly stand before each and every one of you and ask for your vote this November. Together, we will win this race, and we will send President Trump the support and help that he needs back in Washington. Thank you, Montana. Thank you, President Trump. May God bless each and every one of you and the United States of America. Thank you. Thank you, Matt, very much. Thank you. Matt Rosendale. Very, very important, very, very important that we elect Matt and, frankly, other Republicans. We have to get the Republicans -- we'll get things we want. We've started the wall. Everybody wants the wall. We've spent $3.2 billion on the wall. We've got to get the rest of the funding. We're going to get. The Democrats want to obstruct that. They want to obstruct our great justices. And by the way, you obstruct these justices, you're going to lose your Second Amendment. You're going to lose your right to those guns. You're going to lose your Second Amendment. So be careful. Be careful. Be careful.  And don't forget, Tester is going to vote with the Waters and the Pelosi. Can you imagine? Maxine Waters is your new leader in the party.  Can you believe it? Maxine Waters. She's sure something. But he's going to vote for Schumer. They're going to do whatever they say. They -- I will say this. I will say this. The one thing, their policies are horrible. They're for open borders, meaning let all the crime come in. They're against so many things that you want. You know, I've been saying and I've been saying it strongly, they're going to take away -- they're going to hurt your Social Security so badly, and they're killing you on Medicare. Just remember that. I'm going to protect your Social Security. We're going to take care of your Social Security. Matt Rosendale is going to make sure we're not touching your Social Security and your Medicare is only going one way. That's stronger. They're going to end up taking it away from you, and you won't even know what happened. And on top of that, you're going to pay more taxes. It's crazy. Jon Tester will never drain the swamp, because he happens to live in the swamp and he loves the swamp.  Jon Tester -- I feel a little guilty, because, you know, he did run the most beautiful commercial. I heard yesterday it started, and he's like my best friend, President Trump this, President Trump that. It's amazing when you win a state by a lot of points how even Democrats can like you. Isn't that crazy? But the problem is, he's never going to vote for me. He's not going to vote. But he's taken more cash from lobbyists than almost anyone in the entire Senate. He's controlled by his donors. One of the saddest things I've seen is when Jon Tester and what he did to a great, great man, Admiral Ronny Jackson.  Admiral Jackson was subjected to horrible lies and smears. Now, I'm, you know, a victim of that, too, but I'm sort of getting used to it.  At least it's my job. You know, I was going to say I'm a politician. I never thought I was going to say I'm a politician. Can you believe -- I guess I'm a politician, you know? I guess I'm a politician. Think of it. I didn't want to say that. One of the few times I've said it. Yeah, I'm a politician. But, you know, I've only run once, and that was for president, and I won. How did that happen? Right? Wasn't that nice? I run once and I won. A lot of people have spent their lives trying to be president. We know them all. Some we respect, and some we don't respect too much. But Ronny Jackson, he's a doctor, he's an admiral. He's actually the doctor that gave me my physical. And he said that I'm in great shape. And the Democrats and liberals, and deep state, they were very upset to hear that. So they got tougher and tougher, and they lied more, and they write more books now. I never saw -- I have books that are stacked up this high. Actually, the ones that are really good are number one, two, and three on the bestsellers list, right? The ones -- the really good ones by Justice, you know -- I call her Justice, but she's judge, but she's Justice to me -- Jeanine, we love her. Judge Jeanine. By Gregg Jarrett. How about Bongino? He's got a very successful book. How about Bongino? So many. And they're all doing great. And that's what makes me happy. But the media doesn't talk about those books. No, they talk about the bad ones, of which there are plenty. They're lies, but they're plenty. But Admiral Jackson, his reputation was attacked. And all of those horrible things that were said about him turned out to be lies and they turned out to be false. Remember? People don't want to say that. In the last election, Washington Democrats put Jon Tester in charge of electing extreme liberals. I mean, I'm talking about serious liberals, many of whom you're watching attacking Judge Kavanaugh and looking like fools, frankly. Looking like fools. And one of them will most likely be a candidate to run against your favorite of all time president, me. Me. But when I see the anger in their eyes, when I see the anger of what they say, to an intellect far greater than theirs, not even a contest, but I see the anger and the hatred, what's -- what are they doing? What are they doing? They're losing by doing it. They're losing by doing it. I just want to finish off, though. What Tester did to Admiral Jackson should never, ever be allowed. Ronny Jackson is a great man. Ronny Jackson has led a great and beautiful life. And to have lies told about him, I would never repeat what they are. See, in my case, they repeat them. I say don't repeat them, they're terrible. They say, no, we're going to deny them. Do we love Sean Hannity, by the way? Right? I love him. But here's the only thing. He puts up all these losers that say horrible things. I've got to talk to him. One after another. Donald Trump, he's lost it up here. And it's pretty tough. I stand up here giving speeches for an hour-and-a-half, many times without notes. And then they say he's lost it. And yet we have 25,000 people showing up to speeches. And by the way, look at all the fake news back there.  Donald Trump. They go Donald trump. You know, it's really funny. Donald Trump's lost it. So I beat 17 great Republicans, I beat senators, I beat governors, a couple of people, great people, like Ben Carson. I beat a lot of great people. Ben Carson was tough. But I beat 17 great people. And I respectfully say, I beat the Bush dynasty. OK? That felt good. Pretty recently. OK. Now I have the privilege of going against crooked Hillary Clinton.  So I beat -- I beat crooked Hillary. I beat crooked Hillary. And the Electoral College is hard. It's, frankly, if we didn't know better, and maybe we're starting to find things out that we didn't know, it's hard and harder to win than popular vote. Popular vote, you go to three, four states, and boom, boom, boom, you win the -- it's like the hundred yard dash versus running the mile. You practice differently. She forgot that. She forgot to go to a couple of very important states. Gee, I don't think I'm going to go to Michigan too much. I don't think I'm going to go, she said, to Wisconsin. I do hear her husband said, you know, you better go to Michigan, you better start going to Wisconsin. Well, fortunately, she didn't listen to that. But -- but think of it. So I beat the Republicans, governors, senators. I beat the Bush dynasty. Respectfully. I beat Hillary, who stole it from Bernie. Bernie should have won, but that's OK. They stole it. Superdelegates. How do you like superdelegates? But she's got superdelegates that were handed to her. Bernie should be angry. Why isn't he angry? Crazy Bernie. He is so crazy. But, you know what, I saw him the other day on television. And he's ranting and raving. He's sitting behind a microphone, ""I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, blah, blah, blah,"" the hair's flying, he's going crazy. He's going crazy. And I said to my wife, ""Honey, look at that guy. You got to hand it to him."" No, you've got to hand it to him. He doesn't quit. He doesn't give up. I just don't understand why he allowed that to happen, and he goes back into being an independent. But now he's coming back in, and I guess he's going to run. He's going to run. But think of it. So you beat two dynasties, you beat all these politicians. Charles Krauthammer, when I announced that I was going to run... ...he said, why would he run? This is the -- well, he didn't know me, so I'm not insulted. He said, this is the finest field of Republicans ever assembled. I actually did -- I looked at my wife, I said, you know, that's his business. He just said these are the finest ever assembled. Why am I doing this? And then I said, ah, that's OK, I'll do it anyway. Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. So I beat all these senators, all these governors, all these brilliant political minds. Then I beat the other side. And then I listened. Is he competent? I think I'm pretty competent, right? Don't you think so? Is he competent? And their ratings are down the tubes. You know why? Because people get it. They really get it. But it is funny to hear that you have all these victories -- and, you know what, more important than those victories, we're winning in the United States now. We're winning on trade. We're winning with our military. We're knocking the hell out of the terrorists. We're winning now in the United States. You look at what's going on. We have new deals being made. We have a deal we just made with Mexico. That's a fair deal. It's not that horrendous deal that was made years ago that should have been changed years ago. We're negotiating with Canada. We'll see what happens. We're in a little bit of a skirmish, but doing really well with China. You see what's going on. Really well. I have great respect for President Xi of China. But honestly, we have to be treated fairly. Last year, we had a trade deficit of anywhere from $375 billion -- with a B dollars -- to, I say, $504 billion. Either one is not acceptable. So we're doing that. And it's working out very well. I just came on stage, and I was told that Kim Jong Un said some terrific things about me. He said I have faith in President Trump. Think of this. You don't hear that from them. And just moments ago, they put on -- they put on that he said very strongly that we want to denuclearize North Korea during President Trump's tenure. That's a nice -- he just said it. Just said it. But in the meantime, even if he didn't, even if he didn't, we got our hostages back. There's been no more missile testing. There's been no more rockets flying over Japan. There's been no more nuclear testing. And we have a good feeling. He likes me, I like him. Who knows what's going to happen? But I can tell you what, the day before I took office -- and even, I must say, because as you know, the rhetoric was fairly tough -- it's interesting. With him, I had very tough rhetoric. And the fake news was saying it's too tough, he's going to get us into the war. It's terrible, he's being too tough. It's horrible. What does he know about this? He knows nothing. I watched all of these guys who have been losing for 30 years explaining why my method of negotiation wasn't working. Right? And I'll tell you what, I respect him, and he respects me. And I think something is going to happen. Take your time. I say, we -- take your time. Sanctions are on. But think of it. We got back our hostages. I didn't pay $1.8 billion. We got back our hostages. Paid nothing. We paid nothing. But it's funny, you know, because other than NATO, because I got them to pay billions and billions of dollars more, because we're paying for NATO. We're paying this massive percentage of cost. We're protecting Europe. But I got them to pay billions of dollars more, and the fake news said he wasn't respectful to the leaders of other countries. And they're right, in a way, because I said, listen, folks, I'm sorry, you're going to have to pay up. You got to pay up. You're delinquent. You know, in real estate, we say you're delinquent. And somebody asked me, it's really amazing they never covered this, because if they do, they would have said this is terrible. One of the leaders in front of the other 28 nations, one of the leaders -- who I get along with -- they respect us now, because they couldn't believe -- for years, NATO spending was going like this. By the way, this is spending to protect them against Russia. You know, they keep talking about Russia. We're protecting -- I got them to pay billions of dollars more. OK? But they said, sir, could we ask you one question? It's always nice when a president or a prime minister calls me sir. That means he has a certain respect. He said, if you don't walk away from these meetings with us paying what we're supposed to be paying or much more, will you leave us? I said yes, I will. And they all said... And they all said we'll pay. We'll pay. Now, the mainstream media doesn't want me to say that. They want me to say no, no, sir, we'll never leave you. But then there's no reason for them to pay, right? Why would they pay? Supposing they asked me the same question. Sir -- and we're talking about billions -- and last year, Secretary Stoltenberg, Secretary General, head of NATO, he goes -- he's like my biggest fan. And I like him, too. But he goes around saying, last year -- that was when I just did a -- because, you know, I was only in office for about 14 seconds, so I couldn't -- you know, I didn't want to use too much bravado. You know much they paid extra? Forty-four billion dollars. That was last year. This year, it's much higher, because now I feel comfortable. I asked him in a more firm manner. And they're paying, and they should pay. But they were saying that I didn't treat them well. If I would've done what they said, or if I would have done what these consultants and these people that I watch on television, we used to do this stuff, they all failed. They failed miserably. So we have our own way. It's a great way. But it's really interesting, because when I was dealing with North Korea, and they were saying, ""He's too tough, he's too tough."" One of my best meetings ever was with Vladimir Putin. And they said, ""He was too nice. He was too nice."" They wanted me to have a boxing match on this stage. We had a great meeting. We talked about Ukraine. We talked about Syria. We talked about the protection of Israel. We talked about so many great things. But they came back, and they said, ""It was terrible."" I said, what was terrible? We had a great meeting. And, you know, when I came off stage, they all said that was a great meeting. Thank you, that was a great news -- then I got onto the plane and they said, sir, I don't think they liked it. I said they liked it, they're just fake. They're fake news. We had a great meeting. It was a great meeting.  And, you know, the funny thing? If I was tough, if I were to say you're never going to do this again, there will be no more of this and no more of that, and stood him in the face and then started boxing, you know what would've happened? They would have said, he's too tough, that was a disgrace to our nation. The truth is, with these people, you can't win, but we're winning. I'm president. You're president. We're winning. So everybody knows Jon Tester's game. He says one thing in Montana, but does the exact opposite in Washington. That's what happens. He will come home and tell you about your Second Amendment, then he'll vote for something where you knock the hell out of it. Jon Tester talks like he's from Montana, but he votes like he's Nancy Pelosi. That's what he does. He's a Nancy...  No, look at his -- look at his voting. It's the same voting as Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, and the legendary Maxine. Jon Tester voted no on tax cuts. And he voted for the Obamacare disaster, which we almost repealed and replaced, but we'll get it done. And remember this. Remember this. We got rid of the most unpopular element of Obamacare, right? The individual mandate. We got rid of the individual mandate. That was the most unpopular single -- that is where you have the right to pay a fortune for the privilege of not having to pay a fortune for bad health care. Right? It's incredible. But we got rid of it. We'll get rid of all of it. And, you know, one thing I have to say, also, Obamacare was going up 115 percent, 125 percent, 80 percent, 60 percent, 53 percent, all different places. It was going up massively. You know, we want to repeal and replace it, and if we get enough Republicans, we will, and we'll have a much better health care -- we've already come up with some of them, association care, et cetera. But -- but to do it, and we will do it, we had it, we had it done, we had it done. But remember, Tester voted no. He voted no on Kate's Law. Kate's Law. What could be better than Kate's Law?  He voted no on enhanced vetting for refugees. Let's not vet them. Let's just let them pour right into Montana. And you see what's going on.  And Jon Tester voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities. Tell me that.  So that's not a person from Montana. I have a lot of friends in Montana. I don't get -- I mean, I don't get it. How did he get elected? How did he get elected? Jon Tester voted for very liberal Obama judges 99 percent of the time. And yet he would make it impossible for an incredible, distinguished admiral, doctor not to get in. Figure that one. And yet super liberal judges, many of whom are mocked and scorned, and Jon Tester voted against our incredible Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch. How do you do that?  How do you do that? First in his class at Harvard. First in his class at Oxford. And he decides, I think I'll vote no. And by the way, Justice Gorsuch is great and he's doing a fantastic job. And Justin Kavanaugh will do the same job. It's embarrassing to watch those people make fools of themselves as they scream and shout at this great gentleman. This election, you aren't just voting for a candidate. You're voting for which party controls Congress, very important thing. Very important thing. I don't even bring it up, because I view it as something that, you know, they like to use the impeach word. Impeach Trump. Maxine Waters, ""We will impeach him."" But he didn't do anything wrong. It doesn't matter, we will impeach him. We will impeach. But I say, how do you impeach somebody that's doing a great job that hasn't done anything wrong? Our economy is good. How do you do it? How do you do it? How do you do it? We will impeach him. But he's doing a great job. Doesn't matter. Remember that line. He's doing a great job. That doesn't matter, we'll impeach him. It is a hell of a place in Washington. You know, I was thinking, if that happened, every time a Republican or a Democrat opposite got elected president, so let's say a Democrat gets elected someday -- hopefully it's a long time.  But let's say a Democrat gets elected. And let's say we have a Republican House. We will impeach that Democrat, right? And then a Republican. We won by a lot. We won by a hell of a margin. That's a lot of -- that's a lot. That Electoral College, we won by a lot. OK, so we're in there. We've got the best employment numbers in our history. We've got the best economy in our history. You look at the numbers in every category, it's great. We're doing a great job. We're putting on phenomenal judges. And you take that, and you do, then what? You're going to have -- you'll have a country that's going to turn into a third world country. Because if the opposite party becomes president, every time before it even starts, before you've even found out whether or not he or she is going to do a great job, they'll say, ""We want to impeach him,"" and you'll impeach him. It's so ridiculous. But we'll worry about that if it ever happens. But if it does happen, it's your fault, because you didn't go out to vote. OK? You didn't go out to vote. You didn't go out to vote. That's the only way it could happen. I'll be the only president in history -- they'll say what a job he's done. By the way, we're impeaching him. Today's Democrat Party is held hostage by haters, absolute haters, left-wing haters, angry mobs, deep state radicals, and their fake news allies. Those people are the best. They're the best allies.  I mean, you look at the Washington Post or the New York Times, I can never get a good story. I mean, you look at this horrible thing that took place today, it's really -- is it subversion? Is it treason? It's a horrible thing. Even -- you know the good thing about that? Even liberals that hate me say that's terrible what they did. And it is really terrible. You know, when I won the election, the New York Times, all their subscribers were leaving, and when I'm ultimately no longer president, and hopefully about six-and-a-half years from now... ...the New York Times will go out of business. All of them will be out of business. CNN will be out of business. They're almost out of business now, if you look at their ratings  out of business. But they'll be out of business. But the New York Times, you remember, it's very famous. Nobody's ever seen it before, maybe never done before. They apologized for their bad coverage of me. They apologized to their subscribers, because after I won, everybody said, what the hell happened? What happened? We're reading this piece of garbage and the guy that they kill every day, he won. So they wrote -- does anybody remember -- there was a very big story -- they wrote an apology to their subscribers to stop the flow of people leaving and giving up their subscription to the New York Times. And it was quite amazing to watch. And, you know, honestly, for two weeks, they really covered me well. And then it began. And then it got worse and worse and worse. And now we've reached an all-time level. The level of hatred is quite creepy, but that's OK. On the way over here, I saw a liberal pundit. He was filled with anger. And he was attacking me and our great administration. We have great people. I'll tell you, the White House is really working good. They had -- my wife put out a tweet today. Did you see that she put -- she used to do this. She put out a tweet. They had me stomping around screaming with anger up in my area of the White House where I live with my wife and son, Barron. They had me screaming, shouting like a lunatic. And I had a television. I said, what are they saying? I had six people in my office. I was in the Oval Office. We're having a talk on trade. Actually, it happened to be trade with Canada. They were telling me what's happening. And they said, sir, you're not up there screaming and ranting and raving. You're here talking. That's how dishonest it's become. But I asked a young, bright staffer of mine, why are they so filled with this much hatred? Why? Our country is thriving. Jobs are booming. Prosperity is strong. And the future has never looked brighter for the USA. And the young aide looked at me and he said, Mr. President, these liberal pundits, the haters, but they're so angry because you've upset their entire way of life. It's true. But I said, but -- but let's get this straight. So the country is really doing well. And he looked at me and he said something that maybe is true. I find it hard to believe. He said, sir, they just don't care. It's really pretty sad, right? You know, when you look at what's happening, with all of it, including our military rebuilding, we're rebuilding, and everything that we're building is being made right here, the best missiles in the world, the best planes in the world, the best ships in the world. It's all being made right here in the United States. The so-called resistance is angry because their horrible ideas have been rejected by the American people, and it's driving them crazy. Crazy. They're the ones, honestly, that have been driven crazy. The latest act of resistance is the op-ed published in the failing New York Times by an anonymous -- really an anonymous, gutless coward. You just look. He was -- nobody knows who the hell he is, or she, although they put he, but probably that's a little disguise. That means it's she. But for the sake of our national security, the New York Times should publish his name at once. I think their reporters should go and investigate who it is. That would actually be a good scoop. That would be a good scoop. Unelected deep state operatives who defy the voters to push their own secret agendas are truly a threat to democracy itself. And I was so heartened when I looked -- I think it's backfired. Seriously. People that don't exactly dig us and they don't exactly like me, they're fighting for us. It's an incredible -- it's actually a beautiful thing. We picked up a lot of support, because at some point this whole thing is going to be exposed. And it's really bad, and it's really dangerous, and it's really sad for the media and the mainstream media. It really is sad. When I told you about the good news coming out of Korea today, they will hardly even report it. If this were President Obama, that would be the biggest story in the history of our country. But it's going to be sooner or later -- it will be exposed. The policies of our political opponents have brought about only failure, destruction, and humiliation to our country. Look at what happened. Look at where we were, and look at where we are. And we have tremendous potential upward -- and other countries, by the way, are not doing well at all. And had I not won, we would have been in negative -- we wouldn't be at 4.2%. We would have been in negative numbers. We were going down. We were low, and we were headed down. We freed up this country with the regulations and the tax cuts. We freed up our country, and it's great to watch. But if you don't elect Matt, I will tell you, they can change it very quickly. They said -- Nancy Pelosi said yesterday she wants to raise your taxes.  I mean, OK, tell me, is raising your taxes like supposed to be a popular thing to do? Because what's going on, they have been driven so far left, I don't know why they don't talk about red waves. I mean, historically, the person that's president, when you have the party having the president, they don't do well in midterms, but nobody's ever had, ever, an economy like we have. Nobody's ever had this economy. So hopefully you're g"
"Evansville, you are very, very special people, and thank you, Indiana. Thank you. Thank you. We had great success in Indiana, as you know. It was an incredible experience. And we really honor you very, very special people. Thank you very much. Thank you. And I know you well. You love our country. You're proud of our history. And you always respect our great American flag.  This is a really incredible time for your country. This is a truly amazing period of time. We have the best economy in the history of our country. Factories are reopening. Jobs are pouring back into the United States. We are putting your great Indiana coal miners and steelworkers back to work. We're reclaiming our nation's proud manufacturing heritage and putting tariffs on foreign producers who cheat our workers and cheat our companies. Not fair. Not fair.  As President McKinley once said a long time ago, we believe in American work for American workers, American wages for American laborers, and American homes for American citizens. Just this week, we made another truly historic announcement. We are replacing NAFTA with a beautiful, brand-new U.S.-Mexico trade deal. And as we speak, Canada -- and we love Canada, right? But they have to get rid of those barriers and they have to get rid of those big tariffs. Canada showed up at the White House. Where the hell did she come from?  And now tomorrow -- that's one person. And now tomorrow you're going to read headlines, ""Trump had protesters all over the place."" One person. One person. Major protests. But are they going to talk about the thousands and thousands of people inside of this arena and outside of the arena, where we put screens? No. Because things are happening. Let me tell you just really quickly about something that did happen. So last week, you probably saw it, because it gets ratings, they put it on television, right? If it didn't get ratings, they wouldn't be putting it on. But last week, you saw it, I was in the great state of West Virginia. We were in a fantastic arena, beautiful, smaller than this, but a very great place. We had crowds that were incredible. And the enthusiasm, I hate to tell you, the enthusiasm that you have tonight, in West Virginia, it was exactly the same. Can't get any more, right? And the failing New York Times, which, by the way, if I wasn't here, those -- they would be out of business, the Washington Post, the New York Times, CNN.  So a writer for the New York Times that pretends she knows what she's talking about -- hasn't got a clue -- and I'm telling you, the enthusiasm was the same. The place was packed. She made the statement that President Trump was disappointed to see some empty chairs. Yeah, they were going to the bathroom, maybe.  And -- and -- and, listen -- and he was so disappointed at the tone in the room. We left this thing -- that was amazing. These are just dishonest, terrible people. I'm telling you that. Terrible people.  Not all of them. Honestly, not all of them. I'd say 85 percent.  So we made a great deal with Mexico. And as you know, Canada didn't want to do what we have to have done. And after the deal was made with Mexico, Canada came along, and they're negotiating right now at the White House, at our territory. And it could happen. We'll see what happens. And if it doesn't happen, we'll put tariffs on the cars coming in from Canada, and that'll be even better. So... But I think it's going to happen. And we've really developed a very good relationship. Look, we love Canada. But they have to treat us fairly. They haven't treated us fairly. Right? I'll give you an example with Canada. Dairy products, they put tariffs on our dairy products going into Canada, almost 300 percent. We can't have that. Can't have that.  And a lot of other barriers where we can't sell. So we'll open it up or we'll be -- frankly, maybe even better. Either way, it's going to work beautifully, OK? That I promise. Because I'll tell you what, this country is tired of being ripped off by other countries. Tired of it. And we're doing some great deals with other countries, also. You've been reading about it. And they're getting done one by one. And if they don't get done, we come out almost better. So that's the way it is. But we're thrilled to be joined tonight by many of your state's great Republican leaders. And I have to say, I have to say, a man who followed a very hard act, our great vice president, Mike Pence. But a man who followed my -- that's a hard act, because Mike did a great job as your governor and he's doing a great job for us now in Washington. And you have a governor, Eric Holcomb, who is doing a fantastic job. Fantastic. Thank you very much, Eric. Thank you. Great job. And, Mrs. Holcomb, thank you very much. It's a great team. Great team. People that have really helped me in Washington -- you know, we did a lot of things, including cutting your taxes, the biggest tax decrease ever. Congressman Larry Bucshon and Congressman Todd Rokita, thank you. Thank you, Larry and Todd. Thank you. Also, a very special Indiana cheer, Kyle Hupfer. Kyle, thank you. Great job. Kyle -- how are we doing in Indiana, Kyle? They're going to beat Joe Donnelly. Going to beat Joe Donnelly. You're going to beat Joe Donnelly. You have to, because we need the votes. We need the votes. You're not going to get -- Joe is not going to vote for us on anything. He's maybe going to vote for a great judge right now. But before we talk about that, I want to bring a person up to the stage who's really done an incredible job. He went through a primary with a couple of real pros. And I have to say, they have been so fantastic. You did so well. So well. And we appreciate it, man. You know what I'm talking about. You know. Incredible. Incredible. But he went through, he did great, people loved him. He's been a very, very successful businessman, which is really what our country needs. I mean, a lot of this is business, and it's common sense. And I just saw a poll just a little while ago, a real poll -- you know, they have fake polls. They do suppression polls. You know what a fake poll is. It's called a suppression. They make you think you can't win, so you go to see a movie. Don't go to see a movie. Remember me? They said, I don't know, it's going to be impossible for Donald Trump to get 270. We can't envision it. It's impossible. Remember the lines from NBC? Which is probably worse than CNN. But the word is they're firing the head of NBC. What a great thing to do. How smart. That's what the word. Who knows? With these people, you never know. But, by the way, take a look, Todd, everybody, Governor, look how many cameras you have back there. Is this -- like the Academy Awards. Look at it.  They can't get enough. But when I start screaming fake news, you see those red lights go off for a little while. You know, excuse me, we have technical difficulties, OK, then they go back. Right? Look at this.  You know, in the studio, you hear, they go, listen, he's about ready to go. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have technical difficulties, we'll be back in just about -- then he goes back. OK, we're back, here we go, keep going. Oh, what they have to put up with. You know, it's not that easy for them, either. It's tough to have a network where you're calling them fake news and they're supposed to be proud. That just shows when you get good ratings, you can say anything. Right? That's what happens. Get good ratings. Finally, I just want to get Mike Braun up here, because he has been special. He's a special man. And he is going to be a truly great senator. Mike, please. Never a dull moment in this pursuit, is it? You know, I love what the president said, is when somebody says you can't do something, for some of us, it causes us to even work harder. When I watched this man clear the field back in 2016, when they said it could never be done... And there was not one person on that stage that could have beaten Hillary Clinton other than this man here.  And the other thing you need to know is politicians too often say something and they never follow up on it. This man makes promises and keeps them. And he needs a true ally, not somebody that says something when you're in Indiana and does something differently when you're in D.C. Joe Donnelly voted against tax reform.  Yes. As a congressman, he voted for Obamacare.  And then, when he could have had the deciding vote, he voted against repealing it.  He voted for the Iranian deal. And thank goodness we undid that.  It's a sad story. He promised to drain the swamp. And I want to be an ally. When I get there, you can count on it that I'm going there for the right reasons. I'm not going there for the pay or the perks or the pensions that they get, like none of the rest of us do. I'm going there to make this man have an ally there that you can count on every time. So get your friends, get your neighbors out. I'm going to need the help to take it across the finish line, because Joe's got to go. Joe's got to go. Joe's got to go. Joe's got to go.  Thank you all. See you. He'll be a great senator. A vote for Mike Braun is a vote to -- did you ever hear this before -- make America great again? And you know our new slogan that we'll be switching to because we're way ahead of schedule as to make America great again, right? It's called keep America great, exclamation point. Keep America great. That's what's happening. We're so far ahead of schedule. People come up to me all the time and they go, ""Thank you, Mr. President."" Just backstage right now. People. ""Thank you, Mr. President, for saving our country. Our country was in serious trouble."" And when you hear them trying to take credit for what we, you, me, all of us together, what we've done, if we didn't come along, you would have had, instead of 4.2%, you know, it was raised yesterday from 4.1%... You would have been in negative numbers. The country was choking with regulations, choking with high taxes. You would have been in negative numbers. And that's what was happening. You would have seen some real mess. And what we've done, all together, because this is one of the great revolutions -- you can call it a revolution, if you like -- that's ever taken place in our country. And we want to keep it going. A vote for Mike's opponent, sleepy Joe, is a vote for Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi...  And who else? Maxine Waters.  You know, I gave Mike, a little while ago, something that I saw -- but he's seen it -- the Indianapolis Star did a story, and I guess it's a poll of some kind. Joe Donnelly rated least effective Democrat in Senate in a new study. It says, who is the least effective Democrat in the United States Senate? Senator Joe Donnelly, according to the Center for Effective Lawmaking, who said the Democrat from Indiana was the worst. According to the center, Donnelly introduced two bills in the 114th Congress for 2015-2016 that received some kind of action in committee, the fewest among his 44 Democratic colleagues, and neither of them advanced to the floor for a vote.  Now, this wasn't an anomaly, it says. The center just said this, this wasn't just a one-time, one-year, unusual thing or anomaly. It ranked Donnelly 55 out of 57. Oh, I see. He did much better. Among Democrats in the 113th Congress. So I have to tell you that, if that's what you want representing Indiana, you can have it. You can have it.  You can -- I mean, hey -- Joe Donnelly voted no on tax cuts. He voted no on Obamacare. We had Obamacare done, if he would have raised his hand, repeal and replace. He voted no on repeal and replace of Obamacare. But we did get rid of the individual mandate, and we brought it down, and it's going. It's leaving fast. It's leaving fast. Joe Donnelly voted against enhanced vetting for refugees. Let them come in. Open up those borders. Open them up.  He says open up those borders, let them in. He voted against stopping illegal immigrants from getting welfare. And Donnelly repeated voting for amnesty. He wants amnesty. Donnelly also voted for liberal Obama judges who want to take away your Second Amendment and lots of other things.  We need to elect senators who will vote for judges who follow our laws of our Constitution as written. Like Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, who's doing a great job, and Judge Brett Kavanaugh, who we're trying to get through right now. In this election, you aren't just voting for a candidate. You're voting for which party controls Congress. Very, very big vote. It's very close. People say we have the majority. By how much? Like, by almost nothing. Somebody has a cold, we no longer have the majority. We need Republicans in Congress. Today's Democrat Party is held hostage by left-wing haters, angry mobs, deep state radicals, establishment cronies, and their fake news allies.  Our biggest obstacle and their greatest ally actually is the media. You can believe it. We've got stories that are so big and the media doesn't pick them up. We have stories that if that was about a Republican or a conservative, it'd be front page of every newspaper. And we have them and they just don't want to write them. It's a dishonest group of people, I will tell you that.  You can have the biggest story about Hillary Clinton -- I mean, look at what she's getting away with. But let's see if she gets away with it. Let's see.  All I can say is, our Justice Department and our FBI -- at the top of each, because inside, they have incredible people -- but our Justice Department and our FBI have to start doing their job right and doing it right and doing it now. Because people are angry. People are angry. What's happening is a disgrace. And at some point -- I wanted to stay out. But at some point, if it doesn't straighten out properly -- I want them to do their job -- I will get involved, and I'll get in there, if I have to. Disgraceful. And the whole world is watching. And the whole world gets it. And the whole world understands exactly what's going on. The Democrats, they call themselves the resistance. That's what they're good at, resisting and obstructing. They are obstructionists. Every day, they are resisting the will of the American people and trying to undermine the verdict of our democracy, delivered so strongly in 2016, like never before delivered. The most remarkable thing about the modern Democrat Party is how truly undemocratic they really have become, right? The so-called resistance is mad because their ideas have been rejected by the American people. And we're really -- we're getting rid of those bad ideas one by one, so fast. And it is driving them crazy. They're the old and corrupt, globalist, ruling class that squandered trillions of dollars on foreign adventures. They don't want to build the wall here, although we've started, but it's not easy. But they'll build walls in other countries. They'll create borders in other lands so far away. But over here, let everybody pour in and we don't worry about the crime. It's a disgrace.  They've made the worst trade deals in the history of the world, and who enriched themselves while presiding over the destruction of American jobs, American companies, and American wealth? It was the greatest transfer of wealth in the history of the world. What we did to our companies and to our jobs, we should be ashamed of our leadership, but not this leadership. Because we're bringing them back. When we pledged to work over corruption in Washington, these are the people we're talking about. So in this election, we can't let up. We're going to -- and it's happening fast. We're going to drain the swamp. We've replaced failed Democrat lawmakers with America first Republicans. And it's happening. We want people like Mike Braun. Republicans stand for stopping illegal immigration... ...fixing bad, horrible, obsolete trade deals, unleashing American energy, cutting taxes, supporting our militaries and our great vets, our great, great vets...  Republicans stand for protecting Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid and strengthening the safety net for truly needy Americans, not for illegal aliens and people that come into our country to take advantage of us. Democrats want to raise your taxes. We want to lower your taxes. By the way, that doesn't sound like a great campaign theme, ""We're going got raise your taxes. We're going to fire ICE."" I don't think that works too well. They want to raise your taxes. We want to take away your regulations. They want to increase your regulations. They want to weaken our military. They don't want to give us -- we're always fighting money. We want money for our military. They want money for things that you wouldn't believe. They want to shut down your coal mines.  That's not happening. By the way, you're up, like, 60 percent. You're doing all right. I've had such an incredible experience with the miners. And just a little while ago, backstage, there were nine -- of the nine -- now, these were tough guys. These are really -- these are seriously tough cookies. In fact, I looked at them and I said I wouldn't want to fight these guys.  But of the nine, eight of them were crying. And I looked at the ninth, crying out of happiness, because they're back. I looked at the ninth guy, I said, what's wrong with you? Why aren't you crying? ""I don't cry, sir."" I said, that's OK.  That's OK. Eight out of nine were crying with happiness. And they want to raid Medicare to pay for socialism.  Somehow, I don't see Indiana being the next Venezuela, I just don't see it, right? We don't see it. That's what would happen, too. At the center of this election is the issue of border security, so important. We've now started the wall in San Diego, and we're doing another ninety. It's like pulling teeth to get the money from these Democrats. We got $1.6 billion, then we just got another $1.6 billion. Now we're asking for a lot more. We can do that thing so quickly. But they really want -- I mean, honestly, they want -- even though, in 2006, almost all of them voted in favor of, essentially, a wall, OK? Now they think it's politically expedient to anything Trump wants, please go against. Please. Because they are not liking my poll numbers even a little bit. And within the Republican Party -- I have to say this, because this is very cool -- within the Republican Party, the highest poll numbers -- I think it's -- well, they have 90 percent, they have 92 percent, and they have 93 percent. The highest poll numbers ever. Ever. Is that crazy? I actually asked them, I said, did they do polling when Honest Abe Lincoln was around? You know what? Nobody's been able to give me that answer, but I'm assuming they did, OK? So we can say we're beating Honest Abe. Democrats want to open borders, which really equals allowing into our country massive amounts of crime. Republicans want strong borders, we want no crime, we want great law enforcement. And by the way, we love our law enforcement. If you want to summarize the difference between Democrats and Republicans, just remember this. Democrats want to abolish ICE. Where did this come from?  By the way, do you have any idea what ICE does? I don't think anybody in this room, unless they're really tough, and I know a couple of people right here are probably tough enough. I don't think so, though, actually. I know them too well. Actually, I know their weaknesses, so I think they're not. But these are people that go into a nest of MS-13. They call it a nest. That's where it is. It's a nest. These are evil people in there. These -- this is a group of gang members -- I can't say ""animals"" anymore because Nancy Pelosi got very angry when I called them animals. I called them animals. She went crazy. I can't do it. I can't call them animals. Even though they have guns, but they don't like using guns because it's not painful enough. They want to slice people up, young girls walking home from school, 16 years old. And they slice  they died. They died. Their parents are incredible people. I met their parents. Devastated. And the reason was because it was more painful. And then I call them animals, and Nancy Pelosi gets upset because I'm talking about ""human beings."" They don't get it. They don't get it.  So we want to abolish MS-13. They want to abolish ICE. And I have to tell you about MS-13. You know, we have towns in Long Island -- I grew up in that area generally -- I know every one of those towns. They were always great. They were safe. You'd leave your door open at night. You never locked your door. You leave your windows open, no problem. Now they're infested with MS-13. But we're getting them the hell out so fast. Don't worry about it. They're -- they're going. We're doing a great job. We're doing a great job. And we have really no laws to work with. We have really no laws to work with. The laws are horrible. Laws are the worst and dumbest in the history of the world. Again, between the trade deals, world, and our immigration horrible laws in the world, but we're getting them out. But you know what? ICE, we call ICE, and they go into those towns, and they grab those guys by the neck and they throw them into those paddy wagons. They couldn't care less. And you don't want to do it. And you don't want to do it. But we have some really bad people that were allowed into this country under President Obama and others. And we're getting them the hell out.  And, you know, these towns that I know so well, we get ICE out there, and the people are standing at their windows cheering. They're like clapping for ICE. They're clapping because these are brave people, they're good people, too, good heart. But they're tough. They're tough. They're strong and they're tough. And ICE is afraid of them. You know why? Because they're much tougher than ICE. And that's what happens to work. I hate to say it. So they get out -- and you know the sad thing -- it's sad, actually -- it's like the towns are being liberated, like it's a war. And you're getting finally the enemy out of our country. The towns are being liberated from this scum. Amazing. Amazing. So the Democrats want to abolish ICE, and the Republicans want to cherish ICE. And I can tell you that. And I think everybody in this room respects and really admires Border Patrol, ICE, all of our law enforcement, everybody. Not an easy job. Not an easy job. A vote for Democrats in November is a vote to erase our borders and leave innocent Americans at the mercy of hardened criminals. That's what will happen. We need strong law and order. A vote for Republicans is a vote to support the brave heroes of ICE, Border Patrol, law enforcement, and all of the other groups that work with us. Every day, ICE, which is being so badly treated -- that's why -- I'll sometimes go more and more in favor of talking about ICE, because what the Democrats are doing to the morale of these brave people is incredible. It's incredible. And you know what? If they didn't have them, they'd be calling up begging, saying, where is the -- we need ICE. We need somebody to help. This election is about safety. And this election is about jobs. And the beauty of the jobs, people that were stock in one job, didn't like it, they've now got six different alternatives. They go here. They get one that they like. And they're making more money. Wages are going up. Nobody thought this was going to happen. Excuse me, you ready? 3.8 percent. Isn't that nice? Nobody thought that was going to happen. Thanks to Republican leadership, our economy is booming like never before. It's never been like this. Economic growth last quarter hit a number that nobody thought possible. This number was one, less than one, and going down to negative, negative territory. We've created nearly 4 million new jobs since the election and lifted almost 4 million Americans off of food stamps. We've added almost 500,000 new manufacturing jobs since election, 500,000. And if I would have come here -- and I did come to Indiana a lot -- and you know who I brought with me? Who did I bring? The great Bobby Knight. What a coach. You know that story with Bobby, right? A year before I was going to run, Bobby Knight called. And they say, sir, do you know a Bobby Knight? I said, you mean the coach? This is before I ran. And I said, you're talking about the coach? My secretary, great person, said, yes, sir, I think he said he was a coach. I pick up. I said hello. He goes, ""Trump, this is Bobby Knight, and you got to run for president. Our country needs you."" And I said that's Bobby Knight. That's Bobby Knight. Right? That's Bobby Knight. After the first word, I knew it was Bobby Knight. And he said, you got to run. I said, well, you know, Bobby, first of all, I respect you a lot and I really love winners and you are a winner. And the job you did -- great guy. He's also a great guy. Big heart. He doesn't want people to know that, but he's actually got a very big heart. He'd be devastated if I said that he has a big -- but he does. He has a big heart. But I said, you know, Bobby, I haven't decided to run. But if I do, could you give me your number? I'll take it, and I'll call you. So an amazing thing happened. So I write down his number. It was a cell. I wrote it down, and I put -- I have a stack of papers on my desk in New York. I haven't been there -- I haven't been to that office because I don't care about any of that stuff anymore. I only care about doing what's good for us. I couldn't care less. It's true. They won't tell you that, but it's true. So I take this number, and I put it on my desk, and I put it in the middle of a stack of papers. I just -- you know, it's like sort of a file, some of you people might have some -- it's like a file of things you may need someday but probably not. And then when you go through them about three years later, 95 percent of it, you throw out, right? But I had two big stacks -- you'll see pictures of me in the office, you'll see these massive stacks. I just have them. And now I say, I'm going to run. And we did great. We were on center stage of every single debate, right? Every single debate. Center stage means we were never in second place. And if we were, they would let you know about it tomorrow morning.  We were never in second. I was center stage on every -- well, however many debates. Anyway, I'm doing well. We won New York. We won this one. We won that one. We won New Hampshire. Wow, New Hampshire was so great. We won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. We won everything, right? And then they said -- even though we were so far -- in all fairness, I have to say this, we were really so far ahead that I think that even Indiana wasn't going to have too much of an effect, but I want to win Indiana. So a friend of mine, he's from Indiana, great guy. I said, how am I doing in Indiana? He says great. I said, good. I said, what can I do to ensure it? Well, if you could get, like, Bobby Knight to endorse you, that would end Indiana. I said, you know, it's funny that you mention that, but he called me a year ago wanting me to run. He said the country needs it. And I said -- and I put his number right here. I was at my desk. I put this number right here. And true. True. I bet you I have 2,000 pages of stuff, more. And I said -- I put it right here. And I lifted up the stack, like in the middle, I lifted it up, and there's a little card that says Bobby Knight with a number. It was the weirdest thing. Right? Crazy. I said, here's his number. The guy actually looked at me, and he goes, that's amazing. And I dialed in front of him. I dialed the number. And Bobby Knight didn't even ask who was on the phone. I guess he sees New York and he sees maybe Trump Organization or -- he goes, I've been waiting for you to call.  Right? And I'll tell you what. Bobby Knight -- was anybody here the night I traveled in with Bobby Knight when we -- right? I never saw anything like that in my life. We were in this massive arena. We walked in, and I introduced Bobby Knight. And I'm telling you, the people of Indiana, they went crazy. That thing never stopped. That was incredible. And, Bobby Knight, and I called him -- and I said, you know, I thought about you today, because I'm going to Indiana, and I don't need you to come from where you are. I just wanted to say hello to Bobby Knight, because he was special, and he worked hard on our campaign. And he was very happy to get that call. Bobby Knight. Right? We love winners. We love winners. Winners are winners. Bobby, Jack Nicklaus, Tiger. How about Tiger, the comeback he's -- right? Tiger. Did you say the fake news tried to fake out Tiger? They didn't do too well. Tiger's sharp. No, we love winners. We love winners. Our country is becoming a winner, and our country is respected again. You see that. We've created not millions, not billions, but trillions of dollars of wealth in just a short time since our election. Trillions. And we're the talk of the world. I'll tell you, every foreign leader who comes to see me, almost, they walk in and they start off, Mr. President, congratulations on the incredible success you're having with your economy. Congratulations. Everything. Almost everyone. And something I am very proud of, African-American unemployment recently achieved the lowest rate ever recorded in the history of our country. And we're fighting every day for African-Americans, for more jobs, for higher wages, for safer communities, for great schools, and we want school choice. We got to have. We're fighting hard. It's going to make a big difference. But African-Americans, the lowest unemployment in history. Hispanic Americans and Asian-Americans, the unemployment have recently reached their lowest rates in the history of our country. And I remember and you remember when I used to go -- and I'd go to a big arena like this, bigger. This is a pretty big one, I must say. Oh, by the way, if they write tomorrow, ""The enthusiasm in the room was wanting,"" you know, they're like, ""wanting."" See, you have to understand, I have a better education than they do from a much better school, but -- the elite. They're the elite. They're the elite. I went to better schools, I went to better everything. And by the way, by the way, are you ready for this? And I'm president, and they're not. But it's us. It's us. It's a movement. It's a movement like this country -- and probably the world -- but like this country has ever seen. That's a big statement. But I make that statement -- I don't get corrected. And they would correct me in two seconds. I don't get -- this is a movement like this country has never seen before. I'll give you an example. If crooked Hillary Clinton had won...  ... and she came to Indiana to have a rally for the opponent, who was rated the worst in the Senate, of Mike Braun, if you had 500 people -- seriously, if you had -- they won't tell you this -- but we don't have -- we have an election coming up. We don't have a presidential election coming up. You don't get big crowds. If crooked Hillary came here, if she had 300 to 500 people -- first of all, she wouldn't be in this building. She'd be in a hotel conference room. It would be a conference room, right? It would be a conference. And I'm not saying -- I'm just saying. I'm not saying it's -- I'm just saying, something incredible is happening with our country to have this. Something incredible. Youth unemployment has just reached its lowest rate in nearly 50 years. That's a biggie. Unemployment -- this is so important -- unemployment for Americans without high school diplomas has reached the lowest rate ever recorded. Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that beautiful? And prisoners, all right, prisoners were having a tremendously tough time from the beginning, because employers didn't want to hire them. And now the greatest thing we have is an incredible economy, where employers need people. And for the first time ever, really -- and we have a lot of great programs to help -- for the first time ever, employers are hiring prisoners. They're getting a second and, in some cases, a third chance. And I have a friend who hired prisoners. I said, whoa, "
"Wow, that is so beautiful. Thank you. What a great song, too, by the way. Do we like that song? I think so. I think so. I'd like to use it all the time, but it only seems to work well in West Virginia, right? So I am thrilled to be back with all of my friends in the great state of West Virginia. Thank you. This was a big victory. We won by 42 points. That's pretty big, right? Forty-two points over a Democrat, right, over a Democrat. They didn't do too well. And the people of West Virginia, they're loyal, they're hard-working, they're true American patriots. Remember that. They are great people. They're my friends.  Thank you very much. I love you too -- guy. It's a guy, but I love you, too. You're proud of our country, you're proud of our history. And unlike the NFL, you always honor and cherish our great American flag. It was just announced by ESPN that rather than defending our anthem, our beautiful, beautiful national anthem, and defending our flag, they've decided that they just won't broadcast when they play. We don't like that. So while the players are kneeling, some of them, not all of them at all, you're all proudly standing for our national anthem. Thank you. The ESPN thing was terrible, just came out. Under our administration, America is winning again and America is being respected again all over the world. It's America First. This is the greatest economy that we've had in our history, the best. Our steel mills are back. They're roaring back. We're making steel again. United States Steel announced a massive infusion of cash. They're opening up seven different plants. Other steel companies all over the country, they're opening up plants. People said steel will never be back. Steel is back. It's one of the hottest industries in our country because of what we've done with our tariffs. They were dumping steel all over our country. They were destroying our business. They're not dumping so much anymore. And if they do, they're paying a lot. Our military will soon be stronger than it's ever been before. We're taking care of our amazing veterans. And I know this doesn't matter to you, but we are putting our great coal miners back to work. Great people, great people, brave people, I don't know how the hell you do that. I'll tell you. You guys have a lot of courage but we love clean, beautiful, West Virginia coal. We love it, right? And you know that's indestructible stuff. In times of war, in times of conflict, you can blow up those windmills. They fall down real quick. You can blow up those pipelines. They go like this and you're not going to fix them too fast. You can do a lot of things to those solar panels. But you know what? You can't hurt coal. You can do whatever you want to coal, very important. And we are working now on a military plan that's got to be something very special. So I'm honored tonight to have a friend of mine. He was a Democrat. And I don't want to say because of me, let's say it's because of policy, he decided to become a Republican and he's a great Republican. And I want to bring him up if I could. Can I bring up your governor? He is the largest, most beautiful man. Governor Big Jim Justice. OK. I deputized you, did I not? The other thing I know, you as West Virginians are appreciative people. Now just think, we know what this great man right beside me has done for us. Now let me say this: it's time for us to show that appreciation and deliver back. We have to re-elect our House members and we cannot, whatever we do, to God above, we cannot put Ojeda on this man. But it goes further than that. Patrick Morrisey is a little behind right now. He needs you. He needs all of you. He needs you to go out and be warriors and deputies for him. He can win this, and this man needs him. So I would say God bless this great man. God bless this great country, and thank you for having me. He's a big man. He's all man, 6 foot 11. I won't talk about the weight. I don't know. I don't know what the weight is. I won't go there, but he is a big man and he's a great man. He's a wonderful friend of mine. That is really nice what he just said about the man that you want to be your next senator. That's really nice. Thank you very much, Jim. Also, we have your senator, who's a special friend of mine. She's been so helpful to me and so helpful to you, she loves your state, Shelley Moore Capito. Congressman David McKinley, Alex Mooney, and Evan Jenkins. And Evan, you put up one hell of a fight. Thank you, Evan. Boy, you are something; and your state GOP chairwoman, Melody Potter. Melody? Thank you. Thank you, Melody. Also with us is a tremendous senator, somebody that's helped us do our agenda, which is Make America Great Again pretty much, and we have a lot of different names. And you see Promises Made, Promises Kept. They're copying it now, the Democrats. They're copying it now Promises Made, Promises Kept. They're copying it, but what are you going to do? But this is a man that really -- he makes a promise that it's 100% good. He's tremendous and done so much. He's from a place called Colorado, and he's helping to lead our campaign to elect more Senate Republicans like the man we're going to elect in West Virginia, Cory Gardner. Thank you, Cory. Thank you, Cory, great job, doing a great job. Thank you. Then we're thrilled to be joined by the next House members from West Virginia's third congressional district, a woman that works very hard for you, Carol Miller. Carol? Thanks, Carol. Finally, it's my great honor to introduce the person that we are here to support tonight, a tremendous gentleman. I got to know him during the campaign. He has got an energy. It took me a little while to figure it out. I have to be honest. And once I got to see what was happening -- and Evan would be the first to tell you too -- he was so tough, he was so smart, he didn't stop. He does not stop, and he's going to fight for you like nobody's ever fought for the people of West Virginia, your next senator, Patrick Morrisey. Patrick, come up here. Come up here, Patrick. Come up here, Patrick. Joe does have to go. Let me just be clear. Hey guys, I want to start out by thanking the president for coming back to wild and wonderful West Virginia for the sixth time. Thank you. Hey, how about this guy? West Virginia's never seen anything like this. We love you, Mr. President. And I'll tell you this: we know that President Trump is making America great again. But even more importantly, President Trump is making West Virginia great again. Look, tonight, we're joined by some of the Mountain State's finest coal miners. Can you stand up?A round of   for our hard-working coal miners. Donald Trump and I are fighting every day for our coal miners and the hard-working men and women of our state. He's trying to get the man off your back, and I'm working every day to help him do it. [Audience member calls ""You're the man, Trump.""] Amen. But I'll tell you what, one of the best ways I can help President Trump is to have you send me to the U.S. Senate, where I'll be a big ally of this president. West Virginia needs to send a conservative fighter to the U.S. Senate to help drain that swamp. Now ...  It's pretty good. Now let me tell you a little bit. I have an opponent in this race. His name is Dishonest Liberal Joe Manchin. And let me be clear, Liberal Joe is no supporter of this president. Manchin strongly supported and voted for Hillary Clinton after -- right? All right, hang on, hang on -- after she said we're going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of work. Yes, that's pretty bad. Manchin even called Hillary warm, compassionate, engaging, tough. Can you actually believe that? Let  Joe's got to go. Joe has to go. Liberal Joe no longer has West Virginia values. Let's go through the record. Manchin was for Obama. Manchin was for Hillary. Manchin is for radical gun control, Planned Parenthood. He shills for EpiPen, and he opposed the Trump tax cuts. Let me be clear -- pretty bad, right? Remember, this is West Virginia. We benefit as much or more than anyone from the Trump tax cuts. Joe Manchin no longer has West Virginia values, period. When I get to the U.S. Senate, I'm going to be a strong ally of President Trump. I'm going to be the conservative fighter that you can rely on. We're going to stand up for coal and our energy resources and we're going to tackle this opiate epidemic more aggressively than anyone. It's my honor to be here tonight and be on the same stage with the president. Mr. President, thank you for your leadership, your work, and for standing up for West Virginia. Thank you, man. Thank you. Amen. Together, we're all going help this guy make sure not only that we make West Virginia great again, we continue to make West Virginia great again. Best way to do that? Liberal Joe's got to go. Guys, Joe's got to go. And now I will turn this back over to the big man who you're here to see. Amen, brother. He's got energy. He's got a lot of talent and he loves this place. He loves the people and he's going to be fighting for you. He doesn't sleep. He's out campaigning. I said how many days are you campaigning? Because I said the last 60 days of my campaign every single day, we'd go out every single day as many stops as you could make humanly. Humanly, he can't get tired. He's got that same thing. He's not going to get tired. He's every single day and he's got a very special spark. You see it and you know him. Look, you know him. He's done a hell of a job as your AG. And you got to get him with us. You got to get him with us. He's going to bring it back home for the people of West Virginia. So this November, voters in West Virginia will face a very simple choice. A vote for Patrick Morrisey is truly a vote to make America great again. He's going to vote. And I like Joe, but Joe doesn't vote. He just doesn't vote for us. It's a vote for Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, their new leader Maxine Waters. But between Waters and Pelosi, you have two people that are in charge of Congress. They're not in favor of West Virginia. They don't know that West Virginia exists. They don't like coal. They don't like energy.  And they don't like her. So when you cast your ballot for Congress in November, you aren't just voting for a candidate. You're voting for which party controls the House and which party controls the Senate, so all these Congress people. And I'll tell you, we have to get there. We really have to get there. So I'm going to be going out as many days as I can and I'm allowed to. I have sort of a lid with all the Secret Service and all the fantastic people, but it sort of holds you back. Maybe sometimes I'll just make a few trips without them. We'll do them quietly. But we're going to be out a lot. We're going to a lot of different states, and I'm coming back here before the election. And it's a very close election. A lot of people don't realize there's a 6-point spread. Six points could be ended by this evening. He could be up by 12. You've seen what's been happening. We've had a good record of endorsements. In Georgia, a man who was down 10. I endorsed him a short while before the election -- good man, for governor -- and he won 70 to 30. So I guess he picked up 45 or 50 points. In Ohio recently there was -- he was up and then he went down a little bit. We went there, and he won. You know that, Balderson, good man, Congressman Balderson now, he won. We won eight out of nine special elections. Nobody talks about it. They don't talk about it. Eight out of nine special elections, and they don't want to talk about it. And my record  and look, I don't want to brag about it, but man, do I have a good record of endorsement. In Florida, we have a great candidate, his name is Ron DeSantis. And he called me and asked whether or not I could endorse him, and I said let me check it out. And he was a 3. This was a few months ago. He was a 3, and I gave him a nice shot and a nice little tweak, bing-bing, and he went from 3 to like 20-something. And then I gave him my full and total endorsement, and he's now leading by, like, 19 points. And that election is next week, leading in the primary. He's a good man. And so many others. Staten Island, the Congressman Dan Donovan, he was down before the election. We endorsed him. I think he won by 24 points. So if we can do just -- all my life, I've heard endorsements don't mean anything. They said if you get an endorsement from Ronald Reagan -- we like Ronald Reagan -- it was a wonderful thing to have but it didn't move the needle. And if you get an endorsement from a lot of people, it never really -- is that a correct statement? If you look, Cory, Shelley, if you get an endorsement, it was nice to have, but it didn't mean anything. These endorsements -- and I'm not saying it from my standpoint. They're going 20, 30, 40, 50 points. Fifty points, it's crazy. And then you watch the news, will this endorsement mean anything? Let me tell you, it's going to mean a lot. And I mean a lot. And I don't care, I just wanna, we have to get senators in. We've got really no majority. We have -- if you really look at it, probably we could say 49-49, 51-49. We have some people that aren't able to vote. We have some people that are a little unreliable. They don't exactly like what I've done to their career. They don't love what I've done, and that's OK. And I don't like what they've done either. But we need to elect five, six, or even seven more senators and I think we can do it. I think we can do it, and we have to start with Patrick Morrisey. He's going to be fantastic. If you vote for Joe Manchin or any other Democrat in November, you're voting for the party that wants to really destroy the coal industry. Patrick said it. Joe endorsed Hillary 100%, and he got along with her even better after she came out with a statement that she wants to destroy coal and coal companies. That's a bad thing. The Democrats want to turn America into one big fat sanctuary city for criminal aliens. And honestly, they're more protective of aliens -- the criminal aliens than they are of the people. They want to take away your Second Amendment. You see what's going on. I don't think you want your Second Amendment played with. They want to take over American health care and abuse our courts to rewrite our constitution. And how do you like the judges that I've been appointing? Justice Kavanaugh, Justice Gorsuch, Supreme Court? There's no worse nightmare for West Virginia this November than Chuck Schumer running the Senate and Nancy Pelosi with Maxine Waters running the House. And that is why you must vote Republican. You gotta get out of the vote. They keep talking about a blue wave. I don't see it. We have the greatest economy we've ever had. Joe Manchin always voted for Obama, and he voted to keep the disaster known as Obamacare. And I will tell you it is being chipped away. We had it beaten, but one man, I'm sure nobody knows who I'm talking about, voted no, shockingly. To -- really surprising to a lot of people because he campaigned on repeal and replace -- but we've really knocked it out, including the individual mandate. We got rid of the most unpopular part of Obamacare, where you have the privilege of paying a fortune for not having to pay a fortune for really bad health care. OK, that's not too good. We got rid of it. A lot of people are very happy about that. That came along with the biggest tax cuts in our history. And Joe Manchin voted no on the tax cuts. The last time I was here, I saw signs along the highway, Joe, you voted no on tax cuts and Joe, you voted no for our president. You voted no. And he's going to vote no. I'm not knocking him, but Schumer's the boss and he may give us a vote on Justice Kavanaugh. He should. Everybody should. I mean, here's a guy -- is this Central Casting? This is what we want. This is a great, brilliant man. But Joe's just not voting with us. He's voting against your tax cuts. He voted against repeal and replace. He votes against the things that we want, and he votes against the people of West Virginia. You can't do that. Joe opposed the wall and he opposed the travel ban. And by the way, the wall right now, that wall is coming along. We're over $3 billion. It's moving along very nicely, very nicely. And if you think it's easy with these people, it's not easy. It's not easy. We're getting the wall built. It's going up and we're getting it built. And we have a big number in right now.  So Shelley and Cory you hear that, right? Yes. Yes. So we have $3.2 billion. We're looking for $5 billion this year, and all of a sudden it's going to be finished and it's going to be very, very effective. You heard about it today with the illegal alien coming in very sadly from Mexico. And you saw what happened to that incredible, beautiful young woman. Should have never happened. Illegally in our country. We've had a huge impact, but the laws are so bad. The immigration laws are such a disgrace. We're getting them changed, but we have to get more Republicans, we have to get. This election is bigger than any one race. It's about whether we want to continue the amazing progress we've made for America or whether we want to surrender that progress to the forces of extremism and obstruction. Their little phrase that they like, resist, that's all they're good at. They have no policy. They're not good politicians, but they're good at sticking together and resisting. I have almost 400 people that haven't been approved by their slow-walking. Do you know what's slow-walking? They're slow-walking them. We have almost 400 people in our administration, people that gave up their careers that have been waiting over a year to get approved and they're being slow-walked by the Democrats. It's never happened that way in the history of our country and it is a disgrace. It's a disgrace. The Democrat Party is held hostage by the so-called resistance, left-wing haters and angry mobs. They're trying to tear down our institutions, disrespect our flag, demean our law enforcement, denigrate our history, and disparage our great country. And we're not going to let it happen. New York's Democrat Governor Andrew Cuomo even declared that America was never great. Oh, I see, OK. Tell that to our great soldiers at World War I, World War II, Korean War, so many others. Tell them to the folks that sent a rocket up to the moon and our great astronauts. Tell them to all of the great medical research we've done in this country and he says America was never great. I would imagine that's career-threatening, right? I would imagine. How do you get away with that one? Did you hear? He was speaking to a room loaded up with socialists and probably others, probably others. No not communists, but there could have been a couple of them, too. And he made the statement that America was never great and they would go, did you hear? They go, whoa,whoa. They couldn't even believe it. Now that's job-threatening. His comments are an insult to the generations of brave Americans whose blood and sweat and tears built our magnificent country. So this November, you can either vote for the party that says America was never great -- that's going to be their theme now America was never great. Hey, let's do that. They copied mine, Promises Made, Promises Kept. Let's give them a new theme, ""America Was Never Great."" That's the Democrats' new theme. Can we do that? Yes. We'll retheme their party. Or you can vote proudly for everything that we stand for. We're the greatest country in the world and we are now the greatest economy that we have ever had. We're the greatest economy in the world.  We've gone up $10 trillion in value since my election. We've gone up $10 trillion, think of it, since the election. Was that a great election? Boy. Remember I was here just before the election and I brought a couple of guys into a room and I said, ""Fellas, supposing we teach you a new skill, supposing we teach you like how to make little widgets or gidgets or gadgets."" These are big, strong coal miners. They said, ""Sir, we want to dig coal."" I said, ""I agree with you."" I agree, right? Remember that? Their grandfathers did it. Their fathers did it. That's incredible and it's really happening. We are back. The coal industry is back. So when I came here originally, West Virginia, frankly, was down and out. It was not doing exactly well, one of the last. Do you know that a few months ago, it hit where West Virginia on a per capita basis is one of the most successful GDP states in our union? So we went from being down and out. You're one of the most successful in the union, very close to the top. That is some big change. And I've had so many people, I was backstage and people are coming up to me, ""Mr. President, thank you, sir, for saving our nation,"" because you understand what that means. We couldn't do anything. Had the other side won, they would have poured on more regulations, raised your taxes. They would have done things that were so bad. You had a very low GDP. It was 1.2%, 1.2%. It was going down. It was going to be a negative. Last quarter, we just hit, as you all know, 4.1%. Nobody thought that was possible. If -- I always said, if I would have ever said that shortly after winning we're going to hit 4.1%, those people back there would have said, ""This guy, no good, fake news, fake news."" How fake are they? Fake news and the Russian witch hunt? We got a whole big combination. Where is the collusion? You know, they're still looking for collusion. Where is the collusion? Find some collusion. We want to find the collusion. At the beating heart of this election is border security. We have to have that, right? We have to have it. Iowa officials and so many other countries have been reporting numbers where they're having a lot of problems with people coming in. People are coming in, but we're getting them out. We have MS-13 on the run. They poured in here with Obama. We have them on the run because we love the men and women of ICE. A blue wave in November means open borders, which means massive crime. A red wave means safety and strength. That's what it is. The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE. A vote for any Democrat in November is a vote to eliminate immigration enforcement, throw open our borders, and set loose vicious predators and violent criminals. They'll be all over our communities. They will be preying on our communities. Yet while many Democrats are calling to abolish ICE, today our brave ICE officers successfully carried out a 14-year-old deportation order against a Nazi criminal who is living in New York, the last known Nazi officer living in the United States. They've been trying to get him out for decades. President Obama tried. They all tried. We got him out, gone.He's gone. He's back in Germany. ICE officers are heroes who uphold our laws and they really do. They uphold our laws and they defend our communities like nobody you've ever seen. And yes, they're tough, they're strong, they're smart, they have great heart, but they go into these communities loaded up with the kind of criminals you don't want to be dealing with. They walk in like it's another day in the office. They're tougher. They're stronger. It's what these other people fear. And by the way, our ICE folks and our border patrol folks, they have no fear. The job they do is incredible. And by the way, while we're at it, law enforcement, these are great, great people and they're doing an incredible job, right? Every single day, ICE is tracking down gang members, drug dealers, predators, and killers, and we're either throwing them in jail or throwing them the hell out of our country. If you want to save ICE, if you want to protect our border and our border patrol, if you want to stop this craziness of sanctuary cities, where criminals are protected -- take a look at Chicago, how about the mayor of Chicago? It's like a war zone. It's a great city. It's like a war zone. This is what those policies do. Last week, 62 people were shot. Twelve died. This is like our country. There's no reason for this. The Republican Party stands proudly with our courageous ICE officers and border patrol agents. And by the way, you know who wants the wall more than any of us? ICE and border patrol because they know that's going to be a big, big factor in stopping the drugs from coming in, the human traffickers, which is worse all over the world than at any time in the history of our world, human traffickers. Who would believe, and it's because of the internet. This election is about security and this election is also about jobs. Wwe have produced. We have produced. Thanks to Republicans, our economy is booming like it has never boomed before. We've created another number that nobody would have believed if I said it during the campaign: 4 million new jobs since the election. Nobody would have believed it. Almost 3.9 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps, think of that. They don't need them because they have a job. They're eating better now. They don't need food stamps, almost 4 million, think of it. Last year in West Virginia, per capita income grew 40% faster than the national average, 40% congratulations. Congratulations. I told you last time I was here, you weren't so happy like you are now. We've added over 400,000 new manufacturing jobs nationwide. That number is soon going to exceed 600,000 and our opponent said there's no such thing as manufacturing jobs anymore, right? And I'd say, ""Oh I see we're not going to make things any more."" Think of it, we'll be close to 600,000 very soon. We have companies pouring into our country. They're coming back. These are companies that left. They're coming back to Michigan. They're coming back to West Virginia. They're coming back to Pennsylvania and Ohio. They're coming to Florida. They're coming back, not just opening. They're coming back. They left and now they're coming back because they want to be where the action is and the action is in the United States of America. So the economic growth, as I said, when it hit 4.1%, everybody was like, ""That's amazing,"" except me, because it's going to go much higher than that. When I finish these trade deals -- and the tariffs are very important -- these companies come in and I say to the European Union, very nice people, I say Jean-Claude, we'd like to negotiate a new trade agreement with the European Union. We lost $151 billion over the last number of years per year. Does anyone know what a $151 billion per year is? And he very respectfully said, ""Mr. President, but we are very happy with the deal."" I said, ""I'd be happy if I were you too. I'd be very happy."" I said a second time, a third time, and a fourth time, but they were happy with the deal but we weren't happy because they have barriers up and because they have tariffs, all the things we don't have. You want to build a car and send it to Europe, how many Chevrolets are there in the middle of Berlin? Not too many, maybe one? I doubt it. I don't think you could find the one. So there are barriers so I said, ""Come on, let's go."" And then he said, ""No."" I said, ""Listen."" And I said this to numerous countries, I mean, in all fairness, I don't want to single out anybody, but I said it. ""Listen, here's what we're going to""  it's all about the cars. It's all about the cars, tremendously big industry. We're going to put a 25% tax on every car that comes from the European Union into the United States and that'll take our loss and trade deficit of $151 billion and it'll give us a surplus of $151 billion. That's a fairly dramatic swing and that'll take one little signature, Donald J. Trump. And I got a call, ""Mr. President, when can we meet? We'd like to see you."" And they came, and very respectfully, we're working on a deal. But this is happening all over. Wth China, I have great respect for President Xi, great respect, tremendous respect for China. But they have taken advantage of our country for decades. We have rebuilt China. We have rebuilt China. I used to talk about this. I didn't press it initially because I wanted them to help us with North Korea and they have, and they have, and we're doing well with North Korea. These guys, it's been what three months since I left? These guys say, ""What's happening with North Korea?"" Hey folks, they've been doing this stuff for 75 years. Three months. What happened? I can tell you and I got along very well with Kim Jong-un. Really well. Good chemistry. Obama was unable to do anything with North Korea and he considered it like -- just read the papers. You'll see what he considered it. So I've been three months. I have a very good relationship with Chairman Kim. We'll see what happens. Who knows? Can I be honest? Who knows? But I haven't taken off the sanctions. We have massive sanctions, but I want to take them off quickly. But they've gotta get rid of the nukes. They've gotta get rid of the nukes. Gotta get rid of them. But who knows what's going to happen? I mean, maybe it'll work out, but I think we've done a good job in a short period of time. You remember it started off extremely hostile. Remember they said, ""He's going to get us into a war."" They thought my rhetoric was too strong. You remember. I won't say it because I don't want to insult Chairman Kim, but you remember, you remember. Elton John, I don't want to insult-- so I'm not going to mention it. But the fake news back there said, ""He is going to get us into a war. He's crazy. This guy is crazy. Our president is crazy."" And then I went to meet the leaders [ph] and the folks that run NATO, all the leaders of NATO and they weren't paying their bills. They were delinquent. In real estate -- I love real estate -- when somebody doesn't pay their rent, you say  Shelley, you say their delinquent. You gotta pay your rent. And I met him last year and Stoltenberg, secretary general, great guy of NATO. He's my single biggest fan, bigger than any fan I have in the room. You know why? Because nobody was paying their bills. He was in charge of NATO. He couldn't get any money. But last year, I went a year ago, I said you're not paying your bills. You gotta pay your bills. He picked up $44 billion. He told that to the press, they didn't report it. Forty-four billion. And then I just left recently and we're going to pick up at least another close to $100 billion extra. I said to him, ""You gotta pay your bills."" The United States is paying close to 90% of the cost of protecting Europe, and I think that's wonderful. I said to Europe -- I said, ""Folks, NATO's better for you than it is for us. Believe me."" And what happened is they asked a question. They have small countries, big countries, all of these countries were  we're supposed to protect them? I said, ""Look, it's very simple. You gotta pay up. You gotta pay your bill."" And somebody said, ""Sir,"" there's the president of a country calling me sir. That shows respect. I say, ""Yes, Mr. President?"" He said, ""Would you leave us if we don't pay our bills?"" Now they hated my answer I said, ""Yes, I would have to consider it. You gotta pay your bill."" They hated the answer. But if I said, ""No, I won't leave you. You don't have to pay your bills. I won't leave. I promise, will always protect you. You will always be protected. Don't pay your bills."" Then they're never going to pay their bills. So I said, ""Yes, I will leave you if you don't pay your bills"" and you could see those checkbooks coming out for billions of dollars. They pay their bills. And I think we'll pick up over the next short while over $100 billion. And then they said the fake news, they said, ""President Trump treated the NATO nation leaders"" -- in brackets, I put brackets, who have been ripping us off -- treated the NATO leaders with tremendous contempt and disrespect. And I said, ""No no, no. They disrespected our country because they weren't paying."" Now they're paying. How about if we got into a conflict because a country was attacked and now we're in World War 3 and we're protecting a country that was attacked and didn't pay its bills? I'd feel so stupid. We're protecting a country that wasn't paying its bills. So I got them to pay $100 billion. It's gonna be much more than that, but tremendous amounts of money, tremendous. They gotta pay up, they're paying up. And then they made the statement that I showed great disrespect. But actually, I have a great relationship with all of those people, 28 people, all of them. We have a great relationship because now they re"
"Thank you. Wow. Thank you, thank you, thank you, Ohio. I love Ohio. What a victory, what a victory. Remember these guys saying on television over and over again, ""You cannot win unless you get with the great state of Ohio."" We got this great state... Remember they used to say that, ""Trump can't get it because it all goes through Ohio."" They didn't know that we're going to win by a lot. We won by a lot... We won by a lot. But I'm thrilled to be back. This is an incredible place, and -- and we've done well. We've really produced. You know, last time I told you what we're going to do. Now you have the steel mills roaring again. You have people coming back into our country. You have all of these things happening... It's much easier now. We have the greatest economy we've ever had. We have the best numbers. We're setting records in every respect, so it's much easier for me to do this than it was when I was campaigning when I said this will happen. This is a much easier situation. It's an incredible time for our country. America is respected again and America is winning again... Because we are finally putting America first. About time. Our economy is booming. Jobs are pouring back into our country. We're bringing them back. Those companies that left they want to come back. This is where the action is. We're protecting American workers, supporting American law enforcement... Including ICE. ICE, we love ICE.  We're building that wall. We're building a wall, don't worry. We've already started. We've already started. We're building that wall. We've already started. We're doing a lot of things that people don't even know about. We're defending our Constitution. We're taking care of our great vets. Our military will soon be stronger than it ever has been before. And the forgotten men and women of the United States are forgotten no more. We are the great people. We are the great people. You work hard, you pay your taxes, you do all these things and you were forgotten. They forgot about you. And you're the smartest people, you're the smartest people. You know what they talk about? They talk about the elite, the elite. Do you ever see the elite?  They're not elite. You're the elite. You are the elite. You're smarter than they are. You make bigger incomes. You've got everything going, you know. So let them keep calling us that. You ever hear it? Hey, you go to the best schools. You do a tremendous job. Your own companies. You work for tremendous salaries. You do all the things that you do. You're talented with your hands, with your mind. And then you hear, ""The elite has just said."" The elite?  They're more elite than me. I have better everything than they have, including this. And I became president and they didn't, meaning you became president. And it's driving them crazy. We're honored to be joined this evening by many of your state's great leaders, including your next governor Mike DeWine who's terrific... And your next United States Senator Jim Renacci. Great people, they're great people. And for the Senate we have to get Jim. We just have to get him in because ... Senator Brown is not going to vote for our judge. We have a great judge. We love Justice Gorsuch. Now we have soon-to-be Justice Kavanaugh. We need both. We need Jim Renacci.  So vote for Jim. We got to get Jim in there. He's a very important guy. Also here with us tonight is Ohio Speaker of the House Ryan Smith. Ryan, thank you. Thank you, Ryan. Ohio Senate President Larry Obhof. Larry, thank you. RNC Co-chair Bob Paduchik, Bob, I love Bob, I love Bob. You know, Bob Paduchick ran my campaign in Ohio. You know that, right? And he was recommended along with five or six people and they were all recommended. And I sort of said, ""I don't know."" But one person said something about him that I liked. They said he never quits, he never gives up. And Bob Paduchik, I didn't have the governor's support. I didn't have senator support. I didn't have your head of the Republican Party support other than that he's doing very well.  But Bob said, ""It doesn't matter because you have the people's support,"" he said though. And you remember that great night in November... When they said, after hearing so much about Ohio, and it is true you have to win Ohio. And they said, ""It's going to be close. He's going to be able to win maybe by two if he's lucky."" That would mean it would take all night they wouldn't be able to say a thing, and they announced, ""The polls are closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio."" Come up here, Bob, come up. I never -- he never stops, and now he's working with Troy and he's doing good. You just said, ""He's going to be winning, Bob."" When he says he's going to win -- I think we won by 11 points or something, Bob, right, 11? Oh, 8-1/2, well, that's ...  We'll take that, we'll take that. Did you have to be so accurate, Bob?  Eight and a half points, we love Ohio. We love it. And I'll tell you what, we're going to have a tremendous victory for Troy, Troy Balderson. And he's the one I wanted to win. They had this false report that I was supporting somebody else, and they were right. It was fake news, you're right, so. And I was supporting somebody else, Steve Stivers, but he's in a totally different district.  Did they apologize? Did you apologize for them to say, no, I heard today - I heard today...  So, no, I did. I heard that -- you know, that Troy was like my second choice. I said, He's my first choice. He's always been the one I wanted to win, and it's always dangerous when you do this. You know, you get involved in the primary. He thinks -- although I have done very well. They don't say -- they don't say our record in the primaries. They give us a lot of false records. Katie Arrington, South Carolina, she was behind by a lot and she's fantastic, by the way, she's fantastic. And we endorsed her, and she beat a man that likes flamenco dancers from Argentina. You know about that. He was supposed to be vacationing on the Tallahassee Trail, but he was actually in Argentina.  I don't know. Jim, do they have a Tallahassee Trail in Argentina? I don't think, right? No? No, right? Jim Jordan, how great is he? How great is he? How great is he? Hey, come here, Jim. Come here, come here. Thank you. The -- the -- the President is a little taller than me.  And -- thank you. Think about this, in 18 months, regulations reduced, taxes lowered, Gorsuch on the court, economy growing at a record rate, unemployment at its lowest in 20 years, Kavanaugh is on deck on the court, we're out of that crazy Iran deal. The -- the embassy is going to Jerusalem and the hostages have been returned from North Korea. That's what's happened under the President's leadership. Thank you very much. What a great defender he's been, what courage. I'll tell you what. There's a brave tough cookie along with some of his friends. They are -- they are -- you know, I just look -- I didn't know he was going to be here. I looked over and said, ""I don't want to wrestle him. He's tough.""  I think he's like 128 in one or something crazy like that. Did you ever win in this room, Jim? Did you ever wrestle in this room? You would've won.  Statistically, you would've won.  Anyway, thanks, Jim, for being -- I didn't know you're going to be here. That's great. Thank you, man. So, a woman -- a woman, a fantastic woman who came to me because, you know, I didn't have the head of the Republican Party on my side. I won't mention Matt's name.  I was so nice to him, you're not go along and I talked, and I introduced him, his family, his wife, everybody was nice. And then one day, I heard he wasn't going to be with us. And I went, you know, to Paduchik. I said, ""What do you think?"" He said, ""Your poll numbers are now going to go up."" But what happened is we decided, after I won the presidency, we decided, ""Let's challenge this guy. Why should we allow that to happen?"" And Jane Timken came along, and she was unyielding. She challenged him. And as you know, a lot of people were trying to push him over the line. That didn't work out too well because Jane Timken won that race, and she has been an incredible GOP State Chairman. Thank you, Jane. Come up. Thank you, Jane. She's been incredible actually. Finally, it is my true honor to introduce the person that we're here for tonight. He's really tough, he's really smart. He never stops working. That's what Paduchik told me. I said, ""How is he doing?"" He said, ""This man, he loves the people of Ohio. He loves the people in this district. He never ever stops."" It's Ohio's 12th district, and he's going to hopefully be here for a long time. He's never going to let you down. I'll tell you, I see it, I see it. And that's why we're so angry when they said that I was supporting Steve Stivers. And I was -- but again it's the wrong district, I support both of them.  So I expected a big apology. I thought it was going to be -- I won't mention the one because actually sometimes they treat me OK, but about four percent of the time.  But I said to a group, ""Well, they'll be apologizing today."" I said, ""Did they apologize?"" I didn't see the apology, but that's OK because let me tell you, right from the beginning, Troy Balderson, he is the guy, he is the guy that's going to do things. And you're going to be very surprised. You know, they're talking about this blue wave.  I don't think so, I don't think so. Maxine Waters is leading the charge.  Maxine, she's a real beauty, Maxine. A seriously low I.Q. person, seriously. Maxine Waters, she's leading the charge. You know, all throughout like hundreds of -- like 100 years, I guess, 125 years, whoever has the White House, that party tends to lose the midterms. I don't know why. Maybe it's complacency, maybe you all fight so hard for the presidency and, you know, you win and you're a little complacent, but I mean that was two years ago. So I just said why. But we have the greatest economy in the history of our country. We have things that have never happened before. And look, if the Democrats get in, they're going to raise your taxes, you're going to have crime all over the place, you're going to have people pouring across the border. So why would that be a blue wave? I think it could be a red wave. I tell you what -- really, I think it should be a red wave. But you got to get out and do it, you got to get out and vote. You got to get out because they want to take away what we've given. They want to take away -- did you ever see this? I mean, you see Pelosi who, by the way, again controls Danny O'Connor, whoever the hell that is, but, you know ...  Danny O'Connor. And Danny O'Connor, on his resume, put stuff that wasn't true, OK? So he did that. You know, he would have thought he was Perry Mason or something. He was like a low-level person that did nothing. Danny O'Connor, that's a beauty. He's another beauty. This is what we're fighting. They will take away your taxes. They will destroy so many things that we've given. And you know, by the way, we had Obamacare repealed and replaced except for one man who showed up at two o'clock and he voted no, he went no. But what we've done on health care is incredible. We've kept your numbers way down, way below what they thought. We've taken away the individual mandate, which is the single worst part of Obamacare. We've taken it away. And you know, I mean, look, hey this has been -- this has been some successful period for our country. Our country has never ever been like this. Levels of enthusiasm, the likes of which nobody's ever seen, they've never seen it in the polls not for me, in the polls. So, so we have a man that's going to fight for you. He's going to fight for Ohio and he's going to be here for a long time. He will never ever disappoint you. I found that out from the people -- you know, he's just not going to disappoint you. He's really smart and he's a really hard worker. Troy Balderson, come on up. Thank you, thank you everyone. It's a great honor to be here. But before we get started, how about we wish the United States Coast Guard a happy 228th birthday. And to all the men and women who serve and have served, let's give them a roaring sound of  . Thank you. For a guy from Muskingum County, an area I call the Shaker Heights of Appalachia, it is truly a humble experience to be on stage with President Trump. Mr. President, welcome back to Ohio, and we're thankful to have you here. And thank you to everyone here today. I am humbled by your support. It's been overwhelming. In 2016, Ohio was the battleground for the presidential election. Your countless volunteer hours, your enthusiasm and most importantly, your vote helped put Donald J. Trump in the White House. On August 7th, we need to do that again. I'm counting on all of you again. I need your volunteer hours, your enthusiasm and most importantly, I need your vote August 7th so I can go to Congress  And represent you and fight alongside this good man, this great man, President Trump, to make America great again. In just a short period of time since his election, President Trump has lowered taxes, brought unemployment to an all-time low, and the stock market is roaring. I'm going to fight alongside him to continue this economic success, I promise. To the seniors out there, including my mom and dad, and they're here today  And the seniors across America, President Trump will protect your Social Security and Medicare, and I'll fight alongside him to make sure the benefits you were promised are there for you. Mr. President, we don't want to go back. I'm not tired of winning. My opponent has a different idea though, dishonest Danny O'Connor wants to repeal those middle-class tax cuts.  Dishonest Danny O'Connor wants to take away your guns.  Dishonest Danny supports open borders and sanctuary cities.  Dishonest Danny O'Connor will fight against the policies that are turning our country around.  And worst of all, dishonest Danny O'Connor will vote for Nancy Pelosi for Speaker.  If you want someone who will fight for President Trump economic agenda that is putting America back to work, then I need your help, and I need your vote on Tuesday. I will win this election on August 7th and go to Congress to fight for Ohio and for the great people of the 12th District. Thank you all very much. Thank you. God bless America. Thank you, Donald Trump. Thank you. He means it, he means it, he means it. Thank you, Troy. Thank you, Troy. A vote for Troy's opponent is a vote for open borders, which equals massive crime, like they don't care about it. They don't care about the crime. They don't care about your military and they don't care about your vets.  The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE and let's not worry about crime. Oh, really? It doesn't work that way.  You know, when MS-13 sees the ICE people, when they come in MS-13 says, ""We got problems, we got problem."" ICE is fantastic for this country. They're brave. They got a tough job. And we're getting these gangs like MS-13 and others, we get them the hell out of the country one by one getting them out. A vote for Danny Boy and the Democrats is a vote to let criminals and drugs pour into our country and to let MS-13 run wild in our communities. And you know what they do once they're there? We're going to protect our law enforcement, not just ICE, all of our law enforcement. Republicans want a maximum, and we do. We want maximum border security and respect for ICE, respect for Border Patrol, respect for all of our great law -- right, right, law enforcement offices. All of them, law enforcement offices. We've seen the horrors that happened when our laws are not enforced. For example, in the sanctuary state of California, Air Force veteran Marilyn Farris was viciously raped, murdered, and beaten to death with a hammer by an illegal alien with a long criminal history who should have never been in our country, including an arrest just a week before he killed Marilyn. This was somebody that should have never been allowed to be in our country. And we're talking about thousands of people. We're talking about thousands and thousands of people. You can ask Jim Jordan. That's all we work on. That's what we focus on, and we're finally getting there. We're finally -- we'll get there, we'll get there. We want our country to be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens.  Every day, the heroes of ICE are tracking down the violent criminals, drug dealers, child predators, which is a tremendous problem, and the vicious gang members all over the place and we're throwing them in jail or throwing them the hell out of our country, one or the other. And we just announced yesterday a record of enforcement at the border. Not easy, it's not easy because our laws are so bad, they're so pathetic, catch and release. Visa lottery, lottery, let's pick somebody out. Oh, darling, I wonder who that might be. Oh, here he is.  Oh, oh, he's convicted of five murders. Oh, I see. Well, let him run through our country. We are -- what we're doing is crazy. And how about chain migration? How about that?  Somebody comes in, he brings his mother, and his father, and his aunt and uncle, 15 times removed. He brings them all. I said the other day, the young man, we call him that or the young animal, I guess is better -- who -- who mowed down eight people, killed many people horribly. Did you ever notice they never talk about the people that lose arms and legs? They never talked about that. They talk about eight people died, but they don't say eight people died and many people lost their arms and their legs and they'll never be the same. They worked so hard. They're so incredible. But this guy had 22 people come in with him -- 22 people. And he's in our justice system now. He's been there for about a year. It'll take forever. We better get smart, we better get tough and smart. Take forever court after court after court, and then they end up making deals. If you want to have a border, if you want to stop the radical Pelosi and Waters -- Maxine Waters agenda, there's only one choice in this election, that's vote for Troy Balderson. He's going to help Mark Meadows. He's going to help Vince, he's going to help Jim. He's going to help everybody. They're going to get the job done. I mean, the fact is we need more Republicans. People say we have a majority. We don't really have the majority of the Senate. Fifty-one, we have one person not voting, you know, not around to vote. I don't know he's not -- he's not voting, so we have 50. You know to get -- I'll give you an example how tough it is. To get our great future Justice Kavanaugh, I think he's going to get there, too. I feel strongly about it. But to get him approved think of this, because we have one vote that won't be able to vote, unfortunately, to get Justice Kavanaugh approved, we need 100 percent of the Republican votes. Think of that. How bad is that? How do you get a 100 percent of anything? You know, you always have somebody. I don't like Trump, I don't like our president. He destroyed my career. I only destroyed a career because they said bad things about me and you fight back and they go down the tubes and that's OK. A couple of them, a couple of them. It's all right. I never mentioned names, I don't mention names. I've become much more diplomatic. See, in the old days, a year ago, two years ago, I would have mentioned names. I don't do that anymore. I don't do it anymore. But think of it, we need a 100 percent, and then the Vice President -- Mike Pence is a great guy -- has to vote ... And has to go and raise his hand, and we -- we win. But, you know, you're not going to have that vote most likely from your senator, but it's one of those things we're going to get them in. Top at Yale, top at Yale Law School. Same thing with Justice Gorsuch, top at Harvard, number one in his class, Harvard Law School. Went to Oxford, top student. I mean, this is what we want. We want great people. We want really top-of-the-line smart people. I want people with the highest test scores. I like high test scores. Does that make sense? I want them. I want people, so do you. So we have somebody great in Brett Kavanaugh, and I think it's working out very well. But we need 100 percent of the vote. Now we have a couple of places where I won by 30 and 40 points, and it could very well be that they come and vote for our senators, Democrats, could very well be. We'll see what happens. But on the assumption that they don't, because they do talk, a few of them say nicer things than -- about me than any Republican. A couple of them compare me to some of the greats. I talk about Abe Lincoln, Honest Abe. No. No, they say great things. And I tell the people, I tell the people, I say it's wonderful that they say nice things, but they're never going to give us the vote, they'll never. We need the vote. Say bad things about me, but give the vote.  And I'm not just talking vote on justices, I'm talking votes on lots of other things, including highways, and infrastructure, and the wall and border security. I need their vote, and we're never going to get their vote. The only way we'll get their vote, we need more Republicans, OK? We got to get more Republicans or it's going to see -- you will see this country go down so fast. You know, what we've done is they even say it really has been, as you say, amazing. It's been a miracle to a lot of people, it's been a miracle because I campaigned. And I purposely didn't mention the kind of numbers that we're achieving because I didn't want to be accused of exaggeration, right, by the fake news media. If I would have said 4.1 percent GDP, they would have -- it would have been major headlines like -- and by the way, it's going a lot higher. You can mark my words what's going on. You know, if I get the trade deficits down they never tell you this, if I get the trade deficits down, bring them down. If I bring the trade deficits down, we could pick up three and four points in GDP. Nobody says that, nobody says that. They think we can't go any higher. We can go much higher. We have to have good trade deals. We're doing this despite horrible trade deals, the worst deals ever made in the history of our country, ever made in the history of the world. Nobody ever made deals where we give away our country to other countries. It's sheer stupidity. And now these countries, because of tariffs, and I say that's OK. You know, President Obama, it wasn't his thing. It wasn't his thing.  Frankly, it wasn't anybody's thing for the last 30 years, it wasn't anybody's thing. It's my thing. I love it, I love it. But we had one set of countries. European Union, look, they're excellent. They want to make a deal. They're dying to make a deal. They want to make a deal. But for years, you know, they tell President Obama, ""No, no, we have no interest in meeting. We have no interest in meeting."" And I guess they said, oh, that's OK, but they said that to me, too. Sir, we really don't want to meet. We're happy with the deal. They should be happy. They made $151 billion dollars last year, they should be very happy. I said, ""I agree, you shouldn't meet. I agree you shouldn't change the deal, but you're going to have to."" They said, ""Well, we really don't want to meet."" I said, ""OK, that's OK, don't meet. But as your cars come into the United States -- Mercedes, BMW, many others -- we're going to tax them 20 percent and we're going to do a lot better."" And then they said, like about 12 minutes after it was announced, ""You have a call."" I'm not going to embarrass people's names because I like Jean-Claude, OK?  So I won't mention his name. But he did call and he said, ""We'd like to meet.""  And we have the makings of a deal, but without that there was no chance. And then I have senators coming, and others and congressmen. I don't think I'll ever hear from Troy on this. I don't think I'll ever hear. But they go -- please don't tax the stuff coming into our country. What they're doing to our country is incredible. We had an $817 billion dollar trade deficit among all countries over the last number of years. Think of it, per year, per year, $817 billion. That's a year. Do you think they're good trade deals? Oh, wonderful deal, whoever negotiated those deals. And it's going down. You know, a number that they don't want to talk about, but the number 4.1 was great, but we're going to go a lot higher than that, 4.1 was great. Once the trade deals -- you know if I didn't do anything with the trade deals, if I said nothing, you know, let everybody continue to take our jobs, take our wealth, let them continue, you know, I'll bet our stock market is up almost 40 percent since I won. But if I didn't do anything with trade just kept quiet, let them continue to take advantage of us, nobody says anything. I think you would have been up another 40, 50, 60 percent. But eventually you would have had to pay the piper eventually, and we're not going to do that, we're going to do something, we're going to make our country so much richer than it's ever been. And I don't like it when congressmen and senators come up to me -- because I'm a free trader and I'm a fair trader, fair being more important, and I'm a reciprocal trader. You know what reciprocal is? If they do it, we do it, right? What's wrong with that? But I don't like it. When a senator, who I like, and there are a number of them or when a congressperson who I like comes into the White House Oval Office, they want to see me, ""Sir, we'd really like you to stop treating these countries so bad."" I said, ""We have a tremendous massive deficit. We're losing a lot of money."" ""It doesn't matter, Sir. We believe in free trade."" I said, ""OK, let me ask you a question. They're charging us a 50 percent tariff. We're charging them a 20 percent tariff. Do you think that's OK?"" ""No, Sir, it's really not. We want free trade."" I said, ""What's free when they charge us so we can't charge them."" What is going on here? What's going on here? It's unbelievable, you know, it's unbelievable. When we make a car and we send it to China, they charge us a 25 percent tax. When they make a car and send it to us, we charge them essentially nothing. It's 2.5 percent, but basically they don't pay it. So they pay -- think of it, they pay 2.5 percent, meaning nothing. We pay 25 percent. And on top of it they don't want our cars, OK? That's even worse. So what they do is they say, ""No, no, we don't want your cars,"" but they tell General Motors, ""Build the plants in China."" I don't blame them. Look, I don't blame China, I don't blame any of these countries. I don't have to go through them. I've got some good relationships. Believe it or not, they all like me. They understand. They can't believe themselves they got away with it. They can't believe they -- that they got away with, but they have and we're turning it around, we're turning it around fast, you know, sadly because I don't like this. But the Chinese market is down 27 percent in the last three or four months, 27. I don't like that because I really like President Xi and I respect China greatly. It's incredible what they've done. But they've done it off our back. They've taken $500 billion a year for many years -- $500 billion. We have really rebuilt China and we rebuilt, and it's time that we rebuild our own country now, OK? And Troy Balderson is going to help me do that, right, Troy? Troy, yes. OK, he said yes. If he said no, I'm out of here, OK?  He's going to help us. He's going to -- believe me he'll be there. He'll be in the forefront. We've now created 3.9 million jobs -- think of that -- since the election. I would have never said it because of the fakers back there. I would have never said it. I would have never -- can you imagine if I said that with the fake news? Let's say we're campaigning. Nobody ever heard me say we're going to -- almost four million jobs -- four million. And by the way, you have car plants moving into Michigan, moving in  Moving into Ohio, moving into Pennsylvania, massive, massive companies. Moving into South Carolina, moving into North Carolina, they're all coming back and that means jobs. And you know what? When I charge them, when I say, look, 20 percent, I'll keep it down to a minimum 20 percent because I'm a nice person. It totally wipes out the deficit. We go positive, we make a lot of money. And you know what they're going to do, they're not going to pay the 20 percent, they won't pay it too much. In fact, the higher I make it the better it is. You know why? They're going to come to Ohio and build a plant because that way they pay nothing, right? They pay nothing. They're going to build their plants in this country. I went to the Wharton School of Finance, I was a very fine student. And I will tell you, one of the great schools in the world, the Wharton School of Finance, one of the hardest schools in the world to get into. I got in -- let me tell you, I went there. This is basic, so basic. We charge them a lot, we put in a 20 or 25 percent tax. We take the 151 and now we make 100, so we flipped it like $250 billion with one signature. But what's going to happen? They're coming into the United States to build their plants. Don't even think about it, OK  Because they're not going to pay that tax. Too much. More Americans are now employed. Here's one of the greatest -- here is one of the best statistics ever. More Americans are now employed than ever recorded before in our nation's history. Think of that. So we have more people employed working today than the United States has ever had employed or working, think of that. Is that incredible? That's like this little statement that they put out. Nobody -- they don't want you to hear this stuff. This is the great thing, so these rallies are very successful. They hate when I do them although they do like the ratings, I must say.  You know they're torn, they're torn. Do we put them on and get great ratings and let him say that like CNN is a fake or ... Or do we not put him on? They're very torn. It's oftentimes I'm getting ready to do my -- you know, the fake news with CNN and MSN -- MSNBC is so corrupt. It's so disgusting...  So disgusting. I would say almost they're worse, they're almost worse, they're really a fake news group of people. And here's the good news, the guys that we love, right, they're blowing them away in their ratings. Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Tucker Carlson, Steve Doocy, Ainsley, Brian, so many others, they're blowing up away in their ratings. Oh, excuse me, I almost forgot, I would have been in big trouble, the great Lou Dobbs, right? I ordered it. But you see -- oh, Maria Bartiromo. Great. I'm in trouble because I -- I know I left out probably 10, but I didn't -- I didn't really think I'd be doing this, but they're blowing up away. CNN is down at the bottom of the totem pole. MSNBC isn't even close to being next to these shows. So we're blowing them away and that's good because those are the people that love us. That's why we're going to win. I mean, we're going to win here. It's why -- it's why I won my election, remember? Now, three or four polls got it right, but for the most part, you know, it's suppression. They want to convince you that Trump has no chance so you don't bother voting. You go to a movie then you come home. But the problem is you never went to the movie, you went out and voted. Beautiful, right? Right, right? You went out and voted. Darling, let's go to a movie because CNN, fake news, said Trump will not win because there is no path to 270. There is a path to 306 but not the 270. No, I was saying the other night, remember? Pennsylvania, I was ahead by a lot. We only had two points left. It was like 9:30, it was early. And they refused to say that I won Pennsylvania. If I lost every single remaining vote, it was impossible to catch me. I kept saying, ""Well, wait a minute, there's only so many votes left and we would have to do three times that number. Why aren't they saying?"" So then what happened is Wisconsin came in, and we won the state of Wisconsin, and we won the state of Michigan. And then they finally announced Pennsylvania. You know why? They couldn't stand i"
"Thank you very much, Pennsylvania. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm thrilled to be back in the state that gave us American independence...  American steel, which is coming back very strongly  and generations of hard-working American patriots just like you. It's great to be here. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. We live in a truly incredible country and this is an incredible time. You see what's happening? We are respected again. We are respected again. Our economy is soaring, our jobs are booming, factories are pouring back into our country. They're coming from all over the world. We're defending our workers. We're protecting our Constitution. We're crushing the terrorists. We're taking care of our vets. We love our vets. Love our vets. Our military is stronger than ever before, $700 billion. And the forgotten men and women of the United States are forgotten no more. So, I just watched last night our great vice president, Mike Pence. He traveled all the way to Hawaii, 12 hours -- said that was OK; it wouldn't've mattered if it was 50 hours -- to meet the remains and greet the families of the American heroes who gave their lives in Korea.  Our fallen warriors are finally coming home to lay at rest in American soil. A long time. It's been a long time. We are honored to be joined tonight by your state's Republican nominee for governor. A great guy, somebody I know well. He is going to be one hell of a governor. He's tough. He's smart. Scott Wagner. Scott! And I also want to recognize your terrific Republican candidates for Congress, John Shren  John Joyce, and a man that was there right from the beginning. He heard I was going to be running. He said, ""You've got to go with Trump."" A man named Tom Marino, and he was a good friend and is a good friend of Lou. They love each other. Tom Marino right from the beginning. I also want to thank Pennsylvania GOP Chairman Val DiGiorgio. Val, thank you. And David, thank you, and all of those people. David, you do some job on television, I want to tell you, David. And we did a great job. You know, Pennsylvania, for years and years they talked about Pennsylvania will be won by the Republicans, right? It always got away. Nobody knew what happened. It always got away. But we won the state of Pennsylvania, you remember? Remember? Remember that incredible night in November. Remember that incredible night? And you remember that we were way up in Pennsylvania and there was only 2 percent of the vote left. And we were way up. If I lost every vote, we would've won the state of Pennsylvania. And the fake news refused to call it, right? They refused to call it.  We waited for hours. We were at 98 percent. I said, ""What's going on? I want to win with the state of Pennsylvania."" And then some interesting things happened before they called. They just refused. They said, ""Donald Trump has won the great state of Wisconsin."" Right? They said, ""Donald Trump has won, for the first time in many years, both of them, the great state of Michigan,"" and you people didn't get the privilege of taking us over the top. Next time. Next time. They wouldn't call it. I kept saying, ""Why aren't they calling Pennsylvania?"" Remember, an hour, two hours, so long, 98 percent and they wouldn't call it. Well, they were suffering that night. That was suffering. I remember a nice man -- I actually like him. He's very talented -- with a big chart, and all that red -- it started getting red Republican. It started getting red. That chart red, red, red. The little -- little tiny dot of blue along the ocean.  Little blue over here around the Los Angeles area, that whole thing was red. And he's going, ""Ohh,"" his hands start shaking. ""Look, oh my God, another state came. Oh my God, what's this?"" Fake news! You know what you call them, right? Suppression polls, right? Suppression. They give you phony polls so that you say, ""You know what darling? We have an election tonight. But Trump won't win because the polls are so bad. But let's go to a movie and then we'll come home and we'll watch his defeat."" There's only one problem: Nobody believed them and everybody went out to vote. Right? Everybody went out. And they turned on the television and they said, ""Darling, he's winning. Look, he just won Florida, just won North Carolina. He just won South Carolina."" We had -- that was something. Was that an exciting night? That was an excite -- one of the world's most. You know, they kept saying, ""The state of Texas,"" which I thought -- every rally I went to was like this. And by the way, you think this is a big crowd? Go outside and take a look. Go outside. But I kept -- I'd go to Texas, and I said, ""Boy, are we popular in Texas.""  All right, get him out. Get him out. Get him out of here!  So, getting back to Texas -- so for two and a half months, I hear ""Texas is in play."" That means it's so close that it's going to be all night long before we find out who wins the state of Texas. And I couldn't understand it. And they said, ""Utah is in play."" I couldn't understand it. Go to Utah. Great people, incredible people. And then we come to election night. Now, I figured it's going to be close in Texas because I believed those people. No longer. But I believed.  So it hits 8 o'clock, and they go, like, two seconds after 8:00. ""Donald Trump has won the state of Texas. Donald Trump has won the state of Utah."" And we won by so much. And I said to my people, somewhat innocently, ""What was that all about?"" They said, ""Sir, it's suppression. If they convince people through the polls, people don't go out to vote."" But I really mean it, our people went out to vote. And no better instance than the state of Pennsylvania. No better. And I want to introduce a very special man, because he's been a friend of mine from the beginning. He's been with me. He said, ""You're going to win. You're going to win."" He's a great political person. He's a leader. He's running against somebody who's so overrated. I mean, this guy -- you know, I was telling a little story on Bob Casey. I've been there.  I've been -- I have to do this before we introduce Lou.  So I've been in Washington now for more than a year and a half. I hardly -- I mean, honestly, I'm not sure I ever met Bob Casey. I've never met him. And I'm sure I did. I shook his hand. But I'm not sure. Now, his father was a good man; knew him a little bit. But we're dealing with a totally different person. I don't think -- I don't know this man. He's a senator. They're a hundred senators. I don't know him. [Audience Members Calls Out ""Obstructionist""] No, he's not an obstructionist. He's worse. He will do whatever Schumer, Pelosi and the new star...  and the new star of the Democrat Party tells him to do. You know who the new star? You know who that new leader is? Maxine Waters.  Very low IQ low. Low IQ. No, no Maxine Waters is like -- she's like their new star. But I want to introduce somebody that really is a star. He's smart. He's strong. He loves this state. People are just starting to know him, but I've known him for a long time. And you know, when he wants something for Pennsylvania, he is brutal. He's brutal. So if you would, Lou Barletta, please come out. Lou Barletta. Lou Barletta. Thank you. Thank you. This is amazing. This is just amazing. I never, ever thought in my life that I would ever become a politician. I never thought that I would become a mayor. I never thought that I would become a congressman. But never in my wildest dreams did I ever believe that the president of the United States would come to my home area to help me win an election for the United States Senate. Thank you. Thank you. I'm grateful and humbled by that. You know, the economy is soaring under President Trump's economy. It is soaring. The market -- the market is up over 20 percent. Unemployment's at 4 percent. Black unemployment's at an all-time low. Hispanic unemployment's at an all-time low. Women's unemployment's at an all-time low. Small-business confidence is an all-time high. Consumer confidence is at an all-time high. There are more jobs now than people who are unemployed. ISIS -- ISIS is practically gone. North Korea's at the table. The wall is being built. Why would we ever stop that? We're not tired of winning, Mr. President. We're not tired of winning.  But I want to tell you who wants to stop that. Bob Casey wants to stop that. He has become one of the most liberal senators in Washington.  He is leading the resistance and obstruction to President Trump's agenda. He is so radical. He is so radical now, that he said no to no matter who President Trump nominated for the Supreme Court. It didn't matter. He said no before he even mentioned who it was. He gave us Obamacare. He supports sanctuary cities. He wants to take -- take away your tax cuts.  He no longer represents the values of people here in Pennsylvania. Now listen: This seat is very important. It's very important because we want to keep that economy going. We want to -- we want to once again show our law enforcement and first responders the respect they deserve. We want to -- we want to take care of our vets. We want to honor our military. We want to secure our borders. We want to put an end to illegal immigration once and for all. And we want to -- and we want to take a knee to play and stand for the flag. So I need everybody here. I need everybody here and everybody watching to help, help me help President Trump drain the swamp and make America great again. Thank you!  He did a good job. So long, folks. What do I have to do? Bye.  So, Lou -- you don't Lou, some people. They don't know him well. I've known him well for a long time. All I had to do -- I wanted him to get this position to run. I said, ""All I have to do is introduce Lou Barletta to the public a little bit,"" because he's known in his area, his district, he's like a legend. He was a great mayor, a great congressman. But the state didn't know him really as much. And tonight, they all know him. This guy is a dynamo. He's incredible. And I have to say you're dealing, on the other side, with the exact opposite. Lou mentioned some of the things, but when you think about Justice Gorsuch, you don't do better than that. You don't do better than that. And Casey voted against him. And now we have somebody that's extraordinary, as you know, Judge Kavanaugh. Yale College, Yale Law School, top, top student, top of everything. They predicted 15 years ago, when he was with a lot of other talented people, someday he'd be a Supreme Court judge. And you know what? I think Casey doesn't even want to meet with him. You know why? 'Cause Schumer, Pelosi and Maxine Waters told him not to meet.  So he was no, and probably will be no. And maybe after tonight he'll vote yes, but I doubt it. Because his bosses are telling him what to do. And they always have; not the father but the son, yes. So they have no on Kavanaugh, no on Gorsuch, no on massive tax cuts. In fact, Casey and the group, they want to end the tax cuts and increase your taxes. Somehow that doesn't play well. Somehow.  Somehow that doesn't play too well. And you know what else he was no on? The biggest thing that only really the business people in this room fully appreciate, he was no on regulation cutting. We had regulations that made it impossible to do business in this country. Highways would take 21 years to get approved. We have it down to two years, and it's going to be one year very shortly. Very shortly. And you know what? We want clean, beautiful water. We want crystal clear air. We want our air to be the best. It is; right now, it's the best it's ever been. But you don't have to go through 97 different approvals over a 20-year period. And we may reject plenty, but we're going to reject them in a year and they can go on to do something else. We're not going to take them down the line 20, 21 years and then you have a 3-to-2 vote against the project where people work their entire lives to get it approved. So we've gotten rid of massive amounts of regulation. Bob Casey. Bob Casey was joining President Obama...  and his horrible attacks on our clean coal industry. Bob Casey was making it absolutely impossible for the miners. And Lou Barletta was fighting on behalf of our miners, our mines, our companies, and our beautiful Pennsylvania clean coal. And Lou won, and so did I, and so did you. So now with Lou on our side, we've won that war on coal and we're doing something else, because we're putting these great miners -- these are great people. You know, in West Virginia, great mines, great people. I went -- I said to the miners, ""You remember when Hillary Clinton said 'We're going to close you up'?"" Then she had to go down to Pennsyl -- right? Then she had to come to Pennsylvania.  No, no, no, no. They only want to hurt Republicans. They don't want to do anything. But you know what? It's all changing folks. It's all changing. Some things just take a little bit longer. They only want to go after Republicans. You look at the kind of criminal actions and crime, they only want to go after the Republicans. But Lou wants to put our miners back. And they are working. But I'll tell you what I'm really proud of now. About five months ago -- it took a while to get all the statutory approvals. We're putting our steel workers back to work at clips that nobody would believe, right? U.S. Steel is opening up seven plants. Nucor is opening up a brand new $250 million plant in Florida. Just left Florida. Did anybody like that one? Wasn't that great? Great state of Florida. That was another one. That was another one. They say, ""The Republicans are going to have a hard time winning Florida."" We won Florida quickly. They announced that one early in the night. And we're doing better -- the nice part, we're doing better in all of these states than we did on election night -- much better...  despite only negative publicity, only negative stories from the fakers back there.  I go home, I see my wife. I said, ""Honey, we're going to get the greatest -- I just did something so great today, you know. I just stopped missiles from being launched every two seconds in Korea."" ""Baby, what I did with North Korea was great. I got along great with Chairman Kim. I got along great."" That's a good thing, not a bad thing, by the way. I got along. ""And you know what? Baby, I got the hostages back. Didn't have to pay anything."" ""And you know what, honey? They're not testing any more nuclear. They haven't had a test in nine months. And you know what else? They're not sending rockets over Japan and they're not sending missiles over Japan and they're not launching missiles anymore. They haven't launched one in nine months."" I said, ""Oh, the media is going to treat me, finally, so good. So good. I mean, it's going to be so great, baby. I'm looking so forward to getting up tomorrow and reading those dying papers.""  And what do I read? What do I read? So I left three months ago. What do I read? They've been working on this stuff for 75 years. Obama didn't do anything. In all fairness, other administrations did nothing. They've been working on it for so many decades. What do I read? I left three months ago. ""Donald Trump isn't moving fast enough."" Would you believe?  I'm not moving fast enough. Oh boy, what a group. What a group. You know another one in Helsinki, I had a great meeting with Putin. We discussed everything. I had a great meeting. I had a great meeting. We got along really well. By the way, that's a good thing, not a bad thing. That's a really good thing. Now, we're being hindered by the Russian hoax. It's a hoax, OK? I'll tell you what: Russia's very unhappy that Trump won, that I can tell you. But I got along great with Putin. And everybody said, ""Wow, that was great. That was great."" A couple of hours later I started hearing these reports that, you know, they wanted me to walk up -- here's a podium, they wanted me to walk up and go like this.  They wanted me to go up and have a boxing match. I said, ""Whatever happened to diplomacy?"" And by the way, whatever happened to diplomacy? You know, I used to study -- not too much -- diplomacy. I said, ""Whatever happened to getting everything you want?"" Now, some you have to be rough, some you have to be nice. But whatever happened? And let me tell you, if I did go up and start screaming, they would've said, ""He was terrible. He was so rude. It was horrible. His performance was horrible."" Whatever happened to fair press? Whatever happened to honest reporting?  So, we had a great meeting with Russia, we had a great meeting with Putin, although they just hammered, because they really thought I was soft. Soft? I mean, I was -- I was the one that let out 60 diplomats. I was the one that complained about the fact that Germany is paying billions of dollars for a ridiculous pipeline coming into Germany. They're paying billions and billions of dollars a year to Russia. I was the one that complained about it. We had a bad conflict in the Middle East, which I hate, but we had a conflict, and a lot of people died and it was horrible. A lot of people died and I hate it. But we're going to win all the time, folks. We're going to win all the time. But if I get along with Vladimir Putin, that's a good thing, folks, not a bad thing. Good -- a good thing. Then -- then I met with NATO. Now, NATO -- in all fairness, 29 countries including us, NATO has been ripping us. We've been defending Europe and they're not paying their bills. So I went in and I said, ""Folks, you got to pay up. You're delinquent."" They'll be paying $200 billion. It took me one hour, but it was a rough hour. The head of NATO, Secretary General Stoltenberg, said to the press -- they don't report it, they only make up stories. They only make up. So what happened, he said, last year alone, because of what I did the previous year, we took in $44 billion more. You have to understand, this is money to guard against Russia. I wouldn't say Putin's thrilled about that. Not thrilled. 44. Now, they will be taking in over a period -- short period of years $200 billion, $200 billion. Are you OK? Is it OK? Are they OK? You all right? We got to stick with our people that wait here for hours and hours, right? Come on, are you OK, darling? Good. She looks good. We got to stick with those people. Anybody in this front row, they've been here for many hours. Thank you, darling. Thank you. Thank you. And come back. If you want, come back after you feel a little bit better. You come back, darling, OK? Come back, all right? You come back. Make sure she gets back. We'll bring her up here. Beautiful. Thank you. So I raised 44 billion last year. And, you know -- I don't know if you know, NATO funding was going down. And they said, our other presidents -- I won't be particular. Of course, you're only dealing with, like, let's say three people. We won't go back any further than that -- they would come, they would make a speech, they'd say, ""Could you please pay a little more money? Thank you very much. Well, good luck, everybody."" They'd leave; nobody would pay.  The next one would come, ""You know NATO, they don't pay any money. We're defending Europe. They don't pay any money. Could you please pay a little bit more money? Thank you very much, everybody. It's been wonderful meeting you. Thank you very much, Luxembourg. Thank you very much."" They don't pay. The next one comes, same thing. And I came I said, ""Fellas, you're delinquent, you got to pay. You got to pay."" And one of the leaders said, Well, Mr. President, could I ask you a question? If we don't pay, what are you going to do about it?"" I said, ""Do you want protection or not? Do you want protection or not?"" So I said to my wife, ""You know, I just raised, like, a couple of hundred billion dollars and it was like so easy. It was so easy."" I said, ""Honey, wait'll you see the press I get on this . It's going to be great!"" And here's what the fake news said...  Go on. They said, ""Donald Trump, our president, was extremely rude to presidents and prime ministers"" and in a couple of cases dictators, but that's all right. But ""Donald Trump was very rude."" They don't talk about the money I raised. I was rude. And I wasn't. Actually I have a better relationship with every one of them than any other president has had, every one. And they respect us again. They respect us again. So NATO is very well-funded. These countries are starting to pay up. You got to pay up, folks. You got to pay up. You know, we went through the entire room and the last gentlemen, a prime minister, said, ""You know, we're all saying how wonderful everything is, but I don't think the president of the United States is happy. Nobody's talking about that."" And he looked at me and said, ""President,"" this before they made the commitment, he said, ""President, are you happy?"" To me. I said, ""No. Thank you for bringing it up."" This is after they went through 28 people. I said ""Thank you very much for bringing it up."" And this gentleman -- and maybe they'll find a transcript -- he said, ""We got to make the president happy."" I said ""The only way I'm going to be happy is you got to pay your bills, folks. You got to pay your bills."" Because the United States is not going to continue to spend our money, our sweat, our tears, our blood on people that aren't. And you know, I don't know if you know it, and I said to them as a room, I said, ""Look, I'm all for NATO. One thing I know is that NATO, which protects Europe, is better for Europe than it is for the United States. We're way far away."" You know, you'll listen to some of the generals, ""Sir, they are an ally. We must protect them."" And they're a long way away. I'm all for NATO. You know why? Because now the money is pouring in. And they said I treated them badly and I didn't. I have such a great relationship. So I'm very proud of it. So when I woke up, I said, ""This is going to be great. Finally, finally I'm going to get great press. This is going to be great."" And I got hammered by even NATO. So NATO's in great shape. Our country's in great shape. We're so strong again, so strong. We are so strong.  Shall I give you one more of those crazy stories? This was on the trip. So one more? So, I have great respect for the U.K., United Kingdom. Great respect. People call it Britain. They call it Great Britain. They call it -- they used to call it England, different parts. But the U.K., great respect. And I was asked to have tea with the queen, who is incredible, by the way. Incredible. So I was hearing -- I had landed and I'm on the grounds and I'm waiting with the king's and with the queen's guards. Wonderful people. I'm waiting. So I was about 15 minutes early and I'm waiting with my wife. And that's fine. Hey, it's the queen right? We can wait. But I'm a little early. So I then go up and meet the queen and she is fantastic. We then go up and we have tea. And I didn't know this, it was supposed to last for 15 minutes, but it lasted for, like, an hour because we got along. We got along. And she liked our first lady and our first lady liked her. And I won't talk about conversation because you're not supposed to. Unless you want to hear. No, I'm only kidding. But we got along fantastically well and the time went by. You know, like, sometimes if you like somebody you get along, good chemistry, the time goes by. So we were there for about an hour. So here's the story. I got there -- remember, I got there early and the queen's guards waited with me. Waited. In fact, we took a helicopter. See all these Secret Service guys? They're not late. They're not -- they're not, like, late. They don't believe in being late. They believe -- they're incredible. They believe in being early, not late. One of them said to me, ""Sir, we weren't late."" So here was the story by the fake news, ""The president was 15 minutes late for the queen."" Wrong.  And then here's the rest of the story. No, here's the rest. Here's the rest of the story. So, they said I was late, when I was actually early, number one. Number two, I guess the meeting was scheduled for 15 minutes and it lasted for almost an hour. ""The president overstayed."" So, I was late and I overstayed. And honestly folks it was such a beautiful, beautiful visit and afternoon. But they can make anything bad because they are the fake, fake, disgusting news.  All right, let's get back to some boring subjects like Bob Casey.  So Bob Casey -- boy, isn't that boring after these wonderful -- and I'm now going to talk about Bob Casey, I'll start falling asleep. Don't fall asleep as we talk about Sleeping Bob.  Sleeping Bob, hah. That's it, Sleeping Bob. That's it. That's it. Sleeping Bob. So Bob Casey -- Bob Casey is for open borders.  In other words -- look, folks -- hey, folks, I went to school in Pennsylvania. I went to a great school in Philadelphia. Great. The best. I went to the best school. And you wouldn't believe it, but I was a very good student. These people would never tell you that. But, you know, I know the people of Pennsylvania very well. And they are not for super-liberal Democrats. They're just not. Unless maybe the world has changed. But Bob Casey wants open borders, which means crime. It means crime. You see this. He wants people to pour in, and if they pour in by the millions, that's, I guess, OK. I don't get it.  Lou, Lou, yeah.  Building. We're building it. We're building it. We're building it. So, we've started the wall, $1.6 billion. We're fixing walls all over the border. And we're going to start to get very nasty over the wall. You know, the Democrats -- anything I want -- and it's not even the Republicans. I don't know if they care about the -- if they care about me. They're very concerned. Anything I want, they want to oppose. You know, I just figured out how to do the wall: I'll say I don't want to build the wall and they'll insist on building it. I just figured that out right now. So Bob Casey doesn't mind MS-13 coming in.  These are the slicers. They slice people up and they're -- and remember I called them animal and Nancy Pelosi scolded me, ""How dare he call another human being an animal?"" They're animals. Bob Casey wants to fire the incredible men and women of ICE. He wants to abolish ICE, because he's weak.  And let me just tell you something. These people are so tough. And you need tough, because the only thing that MS-13 and these gangs that we're throwing the hell out of here at record numbers -- we're doing a good job. But the only thing that these gangs understand is tough. They don't understand a nice person like the gentleman in the second row. He's a nice man. I can see. Sir, you wouldn't last two minutes talking to ICE. I hate to say it. His wife knows I'm telling the truth.  We need strong people. I have a sheriff was a great friend of mine. And he said -- and he's had a problem with the MS-13 people. He said to me, ""You know something, President, I really don't mind ICE comes in and does the job. I really don't want"" -- you know, this is tough stuff. They want to get rid of these incredible warriors. They're warriors. We're fighting a war and we're fighting a war on drugs. They're bringing in drugs. They're bringing in lots of bad people. We're getting the hell -- we're stopping it. So we're going to be taking some very tough actions. Going to be taking some tough actions. I don't know if it's before the election or after the election. You know, a lot of the Republicans say -- and they're good. They're good. We need more Republicans. But they're friends of mine. They say, ""President, you know?"" And some of them are really tough guys. And they said, ""Sir, we're better off if we wait till after."" I say, ""It's better before. Let's do it before."" ""Sir, we're better off."" You know who thinks it should be before? Rush Limbaugh thinks it should be before...  before the election. You know who else? Sean Hannity. A lot of them. A lot of them. Great people. You know, a lot of people think -- but a lot of great Republicans, well-meaning. I don't mean like they're well-meaning. They say, ""Look, we have the best economy ever. We're doing great. Maybe we don't want to complicate it."" And I understand it. I'm a little torn myself. I would personally prefer before, but whether it's before or after, we're either getting it or we're closing down government. We need border security. We need border security. We got to have border security. We got to get rid of visa -- how about that? -- visa, visa lottery. You know what a lottery is? You pick it out of a hat. Now, do you think that these countries, many of whom get aid from us and then they send -- remember when I did, I hate to say it, coming down the escalator, the beautiful first lady in the white dress coming down that escalator, that big, big beautiful day? When everybody said, ""Oh, he's just doing this for fun. He doesn't really mean it."" Man, if I don't mean it, I hope you're telling me soon, because it's a lot of work.  But coming down the escalator, and you remember what I said, ""They're sending."" Do you remember that? ""They're sending."" And I mentioned words -- I won't even mention them tonight because there's a lot of young people here, but I mentioned words and everybody thought it was wonderful. But then about two days later they said, ""Did he say this? Did he say that?"" Guess what? What I said is peanuts compared to what turns out to be the truth. It's peanuts. So -- so, we're going to have not lottery where you pick it out. ""Ladies and gentlemen, our first lottery winner."" You know, they think we're playing, like, a game show.  ""Our first lottery winner. Let's see he has seven convictions for death. He's killed nine people. And we're getting him the hell out of our country and giving them to the stupid politicians that have been running the United States for many years. And we're going to send him up there because he just won the lottery. Congratulations. Congratulations. Yeah, that's a beauty."" Then you have chain migration. Chain migration.  And this was a Schumer deal. Schumer wanted this. Schumer. You have chain migration. You know what that is? A guy comes in -- stone-cold killer in many cases. A guy comes in, and then you have to bring his aunt, his uncle, his father, his grandfather, his grandparents, his third niece by a different marriage. So, this bad guy that ran over and killed eight people on the West Side Highway in New York City -- a place I know very well -- driving like 80 miles an hour in a 20-mile zone. And then he said, ""Hey, look, there's people. Nice people. They're relaxing. Some are jogging. Beautiful park along the Hudson River."" He decides to kill them. So he makes a right turn. He killed eight and many are just decapitated. They lost arms. They lost limbs. They lost so much. They lost their life. But they lost so much. You know, nobody ever talks about this seriously injured people. They always talk about the people that died. In some cases, those are the lucky ones. What happens with some of these people how badly injured they are, their lives are so badly destroyed. And this animal killed eight and he wounded eight or nine. Some are still in the hospital; that was a year and a half ago. And he came in through chain, and he has 22 relatives here that came in because he was here. He has his uncle and his aunt and he has his grandfather. So, we have to change this and we're going to change it. And here's the last: We have to change -- we have to change a thing called catch and release. This is like for stupid people, catch and release. Somebody walks across the border, they put their foot on there, not even two feet, just one foot. And you might as well, ""Welcome to the United States, we'll never get you out of here,"" OK? Remember when I said about a month ago I said, ""No, I don't want to"" -- they want me to hire thousands of judges, thousands -- can you imagine the corruption that would take pla"
"Hello, Florida. Hello. Incredible people. I am thrilled to be in this great state where we, by the way, had a great victory. With thousands of hardworking American patriots who love our country and respect our great American flag. We're honored to be joined tonight by some tremendous people. Congressman Gus Bilirakis. Gus! Where is Gus? Where is Gus? Where is Gus? Ted Yoho and Matt Gaetz. Thank you. Great, fellows. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, fellows. I also want to recognize State Representative Jose Oliva and the former co-chairman of my Florida campaign, Representative Joe Gruters. Joe? Thank you, Joe. Thank you.  And finally  I love you, too. I'd like to introduce a true leader, a proud veteran, my great friend, a tough, brilliant cookie.  True. He's tough, he's smart, and he loves Florida, and he loves our country, and he's going to be your next governor, Ron DeSantis.  Welcome to Florida, Mr. President.  For someone who grew up just across the bay in Pinellas County, starting out working six bucks an hour, it's a true honor to be standing here, endorsed by the President of the United States. I appreciate your support, Mr. President, but I appreciate more the leadership you're showing for our great country. We have the strongest economy we've had in years. We are standing foursquare behind our ally, the State of Israel. We have strong Constitutionalists was being put on our courts, including the Supreme Court. We have ended the disastrous Iran deal. And under the president's leadership, we are standing against socialist dictatorships in Latin America like Cuba and Venezuela and Nicaragua. Florida is going in the right direction, and we need to continue our success and build upon it. We can't go back to the days of Charlie Crist, where the good ol' boys run the show.  We can make our state without peer for economic opportunity if we continue with strong Conservative policies. We can fight illegal immigration. All we've got to do is enact E-Verify and stop sanctuary cities. We can end judicial activism in Florida by appointing solid Constitutionalists to our state courts, just like the president has done to the federal courts. And we can improve our education system by stopping Common Core, by -- by giving every child, regardless of circumstance, the ability to attend a good school, and by getting the Constitution back in our classrooms in a very big way. So, Mr. President, thank you for your support, thank you for what you're doing for the state of Florida. I ask for your vote in the August primary, August 28th, I'd be honored to have it. Thank you guys and God bless America, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ron. And everybody needs to support Ron DeSantis in our August 28th primary and in the November general election, don't forget. You have somebody, one of the group is going to be running on open borders, anti-ICE, anti-law enforcement.  Oh, that's too bad, that's too bad. That's too bad. That's too bad. One person  one person, and tomorrow the headlines will be massive protests.  Too bad. Sorry about that, Ron. Earlier today I also spent time with your current Governor, one of our nation's truly great leaders, Rick Scott. As you know, Rick is running to replace liberal Democrat, Schumer-controlled, Nancy Pelosi-controlled ...  ... And the new star of the Democrat Party, Maxine Waters.  Name is Bill Nelson, and you know I live a lot of time in Florida. The only time I see Bill Nelson is five months before every election.  And after a while you forget, who's the Senator? But around five months you see him at parties and you see him around and we have to be careful, because we have to make sure that Rick Scott wins and wins big. Bill Nelson voted for Obamacare, which has been a totally disastrous situation.  And we got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular aspect and most of Obamacare will be gone very soon. In fact, it was gone until one gentleman decided at 2:00 in the morning ...  Remember? Thank you very much, we appreciate it. And he voted against tax cuts, and he wants to go in there and raise your taxes. Tell me, is that good politics? I don't think so. Bill Nelson voted in favor of sanctuary cities ...  He opposed Kate's Law. Bill Nelson puts criminal aliens before American citizens, which is why it's time to vote Bill Nelson out of office. That's what's going to happen. And we have two unbelievable people  Ron DeSantis, Rick Scott  fighting for Florida. They always will. And fighting to make America great again. That's what they're doing. That's what they're doing. So  I'm sure we all say this about our children, but I have great children. And a couple of them-plus are here tonight. I have Eric Trump, who's been fantastic. He loves this political stuff. Eric's wife, Lara, who is so great. I think she singlehandedly won the state of North Carolina for Trump. Thank you, Lara. Didn't hurt in Pennsylvania, either. Thank you very much. And we have somebody that nobody ever heard of, Ivanka. Ivanka. Thank you. And, you know, we have a big thing happening because you know this  look at all those hats. White ones, red ones, they all have the same thing, ""Make America Great."" Well, make America great again. Only to be replaced by ""Keep America Great"" in about, I don't know, I guess we could do it now but let's wait another year. We could do it right now, frankly. We're doing fantastically well. I also want to thank David Bossie for being here, Corey Lewandowski for being here, two of our great supporters. I'll tell you, they are two fighters. We like fighters, don't we? We started off, it was a small group. They said it couldn't be done. It was actually done quite easily. We won quite handily. We were never left center stage. You know what that means, right? The debates. We never left center stage. And I said, ""I always want odd numbers."" Because I want to be in the center. I didn't want to be tied for the center. Does everybody understand? But we never  we never left center stage. And I'll tell you. Corey, David, Ivanka, Lara, Eric, Don, Jr., all of them, they were fantastic. They were fantastic. And I have to say, our First Lady is home watching. Look at all those cameras right there. She's home watching. And everybody loves Melania. They love Melania. Great. Doing a fantastic thing. She's doing a fantastic job. Just last week, it was announced that the U.S. economy grew at 4.1 percent last quarter. It was a number that everybody said was not reachable. And I would never want to say it during the campaign, even though I believed it. I believed it, because they would not have given us the break. Fake news, fake news.  They are fake. No, I mean, do you believe  look at this: Every night, it's the same thing. Wouldn't you think they'd get tired of these speeches? Wouldn't you think? And here's one thing I'll tell you: If they don't get ratings, those speeches don't go on, doesn't matter. Look how many they have back there. They just can't get enough. They can't get enough. They cannot get enough. And by the way, outside, if you want to go, we set up, for the first time, a tremendous movie screen, because we have thousands and thousands of people outside that couldn't get in. So we have a big screen and big loudspeakers, and I hope you're all happy out there. This is a great place to be. If you've got to be outside, be outside in the great state of Florida, right? Right? So we're setting records like never before. Since the election, we have added 3.7 million new jobs. They would not have believed that. We're in the longest positive job growth streak in history. Think of that. Remember, I said, ""What do you have to lose?,"" right? What do I  OK? What do you have to lose? And people said, ""I don't know."" Is that a nice thing? No, it's not nice, or not un-nice. What do you have to lose? The African-American unemployment rate has reached the lowest level in history  history. Thank you. You guys are great. Thank you. Blacks for Trump. They say, ""Blacks for Trump."" You knew a long time ago, didn't you, huh? You knew a long time ago. Thank you, folks. Thank you. The Hispanic unemployment rate is at the lowest level in history, Hispanic. The Asian unemployment rate has reached the lowest level in history. Sorry about this, women, but the employment rate has reached the lowest level in only 65 years. It'll be history soon. It'll be. It'll be history soon. Give us about two more weeks.  The veterans' unemployment rate  oh, do we love our veterans, right? Has reached the lowest level in 18 years. More than 3.5 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps since the election. American oil production is at an all-time high, we have never produced as much. And the United States is now a net natural gas exporter for the first time in more than 60 years  60. We will very shortly be the largest in the world in energy, the largest in the world, think of that. And most importantly, America is being respected again, we're respected again. And I told the story the other day, I get to meet all these world leaders. Virtually everyone comes into the Oval Office or wherever we're meeting and they don't know me. I'm meeting them in many cases for the first time. I'm not sure they like me, like in the case of NATO. I said you got to pay your bills, folks, got to pay up, got to pay up. But they liked it, they liked it. But everyone that reached me says hello, Mr. President, congratulations on what you've done for the economy. It's the talk of the world, talk of the world. Now that we have the best economy in the history of our country, this is the time to straighten out the worst trade deals ever made by any country on Earth, they are the worst. For decades, United States was the piggy bank that everybody was robbing. All of these other countries, our friends, our enemies, our allies...  The foe, foe. We rebuilt China paying hundreds of billions of dollars a year with nobody there to protect your money. But you're there now, we are protecting your money. And I want to thank our farmers, our farmers are true patriots. Because China and others have targeted  China and others, remember this, have targeted our farmers.  Not good, not nice. And you know what our farmers are saying? It's OK, we can take it. These are incredible people, we can take it. You know why? They target our farmers because they know it's one of our great strengths. It's us, it's not me, it's us altogether. They know it's one of our great strengths. We won every farm state, you're going to see that middle of that map  wasn't even the middle, it was about everything but a little corners of each side. But you have to see, that is all red, Republican red, beautiful, Republican red. And remember this, remember this. Farms have been on a decline, I mean it's been for 15 years. I've only been here for, you know  it's pretty soon going to be close to two years. But if you look at soybeans  big crop. If you go back to Election Day and then move back five years, so five years before Election Day, soybeans dropped 50 percent in price. I wasn't even here, so now we're going to open up markets, We're going to do it the way it should be. And all of this stuff, you're going to make it back and it's going to be made back faster than anybody would know. But we haven't been treated right. We're going to make it back nice and quickly. Nice and quickly. Now, after years of rebuilding foreign countries, it's time to finally rebuild our country, right? Wouldn't you say? Right? In the past, politicians ran for office pledging to crack down on unfair trade. They never did anything about it. Only to get elected, and they just didn't do anything. The United States was allowed to truly get ripped off.  But we're not going to let that happen. I'm not like other politicians. You've seen what happens. I've kept my promises. One of the brilliant pundits that has a  doesn't have a clue. I mean, these people, how they have gotten us wrong. And you know what they were asking, Election Day, ""Where did all these people come from? Where did they come from?"" In Tennessee, that was an early state. They came in and they were pouring in with the early vote. And the fake news was saying, ""Where are these people coming from?""  You know where they came from? They came from the heart. They came from people that were never happy with anybody until we came along. That's where they came from. That's where they came from. But one of the pundits said that ""He's made a lot of promises. And you won't believe it, but he's actually kept far more promises than he made."" Did you ever hear that one? So. Of course they'll probably be throwing him out of broadcasting tomorrow. We've taken the toughest-ever actions in response to China's abusive trade practices. And we're doing very well with China, very well. And I have a lot of respect for China. And I have tremendous respect for President Xi of China. But this has been too many years of abuse, $500 billion a year. $500 billion. We've helped rebuild China. We can't do that anymore.  We can't do that anymore. And our farmers understand it, and our workers understand it. And, frankly, our companies understand it. I was with one of the greatest companies in the world. The chief executive officer, very short while ago. And it really affects him. He said, ""You know what, this does affect our company. But, Mr. President, keep going. You're doing the right thing."" I thought it was great. I thought it was great. A great company, one of the greatest. He said, ""You're doing the right thing."" And I said, ""I appreciate it."" Thanks to our powerful trade policies, the trade deficit is falling and falling and falling. And, boy, did it fall this quarter. The days of plundering American jobs and American wealth, those days are over, they're over. America first  America first. We're also living by two very important rules, buy American and hire American. Last week I visited with hundreds of American steel workers, who were laid off years ago because other countries were dumping steel all over our country. They're not dumping so much anymore, you notice? And if they do, they're paying a 25 percent tariff or tax. So you know what I say to that? Dump all you want. I hope you dump a lot.  Now thanks to our tariffs, our steel workers are back on the job, American steel mills are back open for business, we are starting to set new records and nobody believed it could happen this quickly. U.S. Steel just announced that they're building six new steel mills. And that number's soon going to be lifted, but I'm not allowed to say that, so I won't.  And I'm very proud to report that NuCor is going to build a brand new $240 million steel mill  that's a big one, right here in Florida, the head of NuCor is here. Thank you, thank you  head of NuCor. That's a big one. Democrats want to raise your taxes, they want to destroy your jobs...  They want to crush our industries with crippling regulations, and you know the stock market is up almost 40 percent since that great November day. Your 401Ks are doing very well, 401Ks. I tell the story, I was in New York and I shake hands. I love law enforcement  do we love law enforcement? And I was shaking hands with policemen in New York City, and the first one came up to me and said Mr. President, I want to thank you so much. I said what did I do? He said my 401K is up 44 percent and my wife thinks I'm, for the first time, a financial genius.  She's giving him all the credit. She said  she said darling, I love you so much and he said yes, I'm a great financial wizard.  But he said you're looking  you're just making me look so good, and all of you  who has 401Ks here? I guarantee you one thing, I have your vote. I guarantee it.  Of course, if the fake news did a poll, they're called suppression polls.  You know, polls are fake, just like everything else.  If the fake news did a poll, it would show that I'm only getting 25 percent with the 401K people, even though they're up 44 percent. No, we got  we're doing well. We're doing well, and I'm happy you're doing well. They just came out with a poll  did you hear? The most popular person in the history of the Republican Party is Trump. Can you believe this? So I said, ""Does that include honest Abe Lincoln?"" You know, he was pretty good, right? Remember, I said, when I'd be a little bit wild, and we'd have a lot of fun, they'd say, ""He's not acting presidential,"" and I'd say, ""Well, it's a lot easier to act presidential than to do what I do."" Anybody can act presidential. Ladies and gentlemen of the state of Florida, thank you very much for being here. You are tremendously people, and I will leave now, because I am boring you to death. Thank you. No, but I said, ""I can be  "" I used to tell them all the time, the fake news, I'd say, ""I can be more presidential than any president in history, except for possibly Abe Lincoln with the big hat."" I  I don't know about that. Abe  Abe looked pretty presidential, right? What do you think? He's tough. He's tough. I admit it: Abe Lincoln is tough. But we love Abe Lincoln. One of these guys, when that poll came out  most popular  and it was in the 90s. And one of these guys is on television. You know, can't miss a word. Can't miss a word. Every  they see the poll. ""Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Look at this. Oh, my God."" Yeah, seven more years, seven more. Seven more. ""Oh, my God. We've got to find something. We've got to do anything  anything  to get him out. He's doing too well. This is not good."" Worst of all, Democrats want to  you know that. They want to open our borders. They want to let crime, tremendous crime into our country. We can't do it.  Republicans want strong borders and no crime; Democrats want open borders, which equals massive crime. And on top of that, the Democrats  Nancy Pelosi, the whole group, Maxine  Maxine. She likes me a lot. She likes me a lot.  They've launched outrageous attacks on our incredible law enforcement officers, and on ICE and our Border Patrol, can you believe it?  People that keep us safe. Their new platform, what they want to do  the Democrat Party, they want to abolish ICE. So in other words, they want to let MS-13 rule our country. That's not going to happen.  Every day, the brave men and women of ICE are liberating communities and towns from savage gangs like MS-13 that are occupying our country like another nation would. We want maximum border security and respect for our heroes, ICE, Border Patrol and law enforcement. And we're going to have tremendous border security that will include the wall  that will include the wall. Now a lot of people don't know it but we've already started the wall. We got $1.6 billion and we've started large portions of the wall, but we're going to need  even the way we negotiate, we're going to need more and we're going to get more and we may have to do some pretty drastic things, but we're going to get it. Because the Democrats  the Democrats are not voting for what we want to do and they're not voting and allowing our values to take place in our country.  We're tracking down the gang members and we're tracking down the drug dealers and the child predators and the criminal aliens and we're throwing them in jail or throwing them the hell out of our country. In some states, Democrats are even trying to give illegal immigrants the right to vote. They want to give them the right to vote.  Yeah, what about all of those people that are waiting in line for 7, 8, 9, 10 years trying to get into our country, they don't have the right to vote. We believe that only American citizens should vote in American elections -- Which is why the time has come for voter ID like everything else, voter ID. You know, if you go out and you want to buy groceries, you need a picture on a card, you need ID. You go out and you want to buy anything, you need ID and you need your picture. In this country, the only time you don't need it in many cases is when you want to vote for a president, when you want to vote for a senator, when you want to vote for a governor or a congressman, it's crazy, it's crazy.  But we're turning it around. Remember I said it's awfully early to be thinking this, but I always think it, remember the attack on Merry Christmas, they're not attacking it anymore. Everyone is happy to say Merry Christmas, right? Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas. That was under siege. You have these big department stores they say, ""Happy Holidays."" I say, ""Where is the Merry Christmas?"" Now they're all putting up Merry Christmas again and that's because  only because of our campaign. And by the way, the evangelicals and Paula White, Pastor Paula White, the evangelicals have been so amazing to us. They came out and they voted 84 percent and doubled and tripled the numbers that ever voted in an election before. We love the evangelical Christians. If you want safety, if you want borders, if you want to have a country, then you need to go out and vote Republican. And very importantly, you need to go out and vote for Ron DeSantis for governor of Florida. The lobbyists and special interests fighting against my administration, many of them are globalist. They care what happens in other countries. I care what's happening in the USA.  They're the geniuses who came up with our terrible trade deals one after another, how about NAFTA, remember when they signed NAFTA?  Remember they signed NAFTA and everybody just moved their companies down to Mexico and these people were saying, ""Isn't that a wonderful thing?"" No, it's not a wonderful thing and those companies are now moving back. These are the people who lost trillions of dollars overseas and who gave us our horrible immigration laws. These laws are the worst. I am for America first and the American worker. We want to be a puppet for no one any longer. We're not going to be a puppet any longer. My only special interest is you, the citizens of the United States. I've had a great career. I've got a lot of fun, even in Florida, I've had a great career, I've had a lot of fun. I've done great. I've done really well, beyond anything I could've ever expected. And then I ran for president with no experience and I won. Isn't that -- But you actually won. You know, I told the story the other day, I was probably in Washington in my entire life 17 times. True, 17 times. I don't think I ever stayed overnight. You know what I'm getting at, right? And we have a great cabinet now, a couple of little changes. But we have a great cabinet. We have  Mike Pompeo, our Secretary of State. So many great people. And we're really getting  we have just incredible people. But I made some choices that I wouldn't have made. But I'm riding down Pennsylvania Avenue. Again, I've only been here about 17 times. And probably seven of those times was to check out the hotel I'm building on Pennsylvania Avenue and then I hop on the plane and I go back. So I've been there 17 times, never stayed there at night. I don't believe. And then I'm riding down in this beautiful car, picked up at the airport by Secret Service, holding the hand of our great first lady. And I look at her and I say, ""Honey, guess what, I'm president of the United States!"" President of the United States. And I didn't know anybody in Washington, but now I know everybody in Washington. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the wonderful people and I know the scum. And America now is winning again like they haven't won before. We passed the biggest tax cuts and reform in American history, biggest cuts in history. More than 100 utilities have slashed rates for consumers including right here from Duke Energy and Tampa Electric. Your rates have gone down. Over $300 billion poured back into the United States in the first quarter, and we expect to be taking back because of our new tax cut and reform plan that passed bigger than anything ever in our country. We expect to be taking back from overseas over $4 trillion. That's a lot of money  could never have come back before. And if our opponent had won and the Democrats had won, they would've put more regulations on. They would've raised your taxes. They would've opened your borders, gotten rid of law enforcement. They would not have helped your military. And you know what? Our country would be going to hell. And instead of going up, the market would be half of what it was if we're lucky, because frankly the tax cuts were incredible to what we've done. But maybe even more important are the cuts in these horrible regulations that didn't allow anybody to do anything, job-killing regulations. We've gotten rid of more regulations than any president in the history of the United States. And that's done in less than two years. I withdrew the United States from the unfair one-sided very, very expensive job-killing Paris Climate Accord. We repealed the core of Obamacare. The individual mandate is gone. You know, the individual mandate. That's a beauty. Only the past administration could have come up with this. That's where you pay a lot of money for the privilege of not paying in order to have poor health care. Other than that, it's a wonderful thing. So you pay all this money for the privilege of not having to pay and the health care is no good to start off with. And we're doing great on health care. We're allowing Americans to buy better health care for less money through association health plans, including across state lines, bidding, you're getting tremendous competition. We passed the biggest VA reform in half a century, Veteran's Choice. If our veterans can't get the care they need from the VA, they will have the right to go see a private doctor. We'll pay for the doctor. And frankly, we'll save a lot of money. We'll help a lot of vets. Everybody said they've been trying to get it for 45 years, everybody said you can't get it. Think of it. Think of it. Veterans Choice, they have to stand  our great people. These are our great people. Who's a veteran in this audience? Do you like Trump? Do you like the job we're doing? Now, think of it, 45 years, everybody said you'll never get it passed. And I used to say before I really was well-versed on the veteran situation in health care, I used to say all the time, ""Why don't they just let the folks go to a doctor?"" They'd wait in line for 7 days, 9 days, 14 days, 21 days. Some of them started off with a very modest problem. They end up being terminal because they can't see a doctor. I said, ""Why don't they just let them go see a local private doctor, pay the bill and take care of it?"" It will be a lot less expensive. And it's turned out to be something that the veterans love. And it's passed. It's passed. They've been trying to get it passed for 38 years. The other one is 45, and that's VA accountability. If somebody treated our veterans badly, if they stole, if they was  if they were  you know this, if they were sadistic, if they were really bad to our vets, all right? Really, really bad, we couldn't do anything about it. They could steal. They could rob. They could be abusive. You couldn't say, ""You're fired."" Now you can say, ""You're fired."" Made a big difference. That was another one they said you'll never get it done between civil service and unions. We love them both. But between civil service and unions they said, ""You'll never get it done. You'll never get it approved."" And by the way, we had virtually no help, very little from Democrats. Very little. Not because it's not right, but because they don't want to give Trump any victory. They'll do everything that's wrong. Look at Judge Kavanaugh. This is a great, great highly respected man. And the good news is the Republicans, I believe, are close to a hundred percent, which is what we need. But so far, the Democrats haven't given us any votes, and that's because they will do anything they can to not help the Trump agenda, even though they know it's wrong.  And Brett Kavanaugh, highest education, best grades, best tests, best everything. They thought 15 years ago he was going to be a Supreme Court judge. Look at Justice Gorsuch, how good is he? How good is he? So we're getting them through. But it's not easy because they really are. You know, their term that they use is, ""resist."" It's actually resist and obstruct. Whatever they can do to resist and obstruct. And frankly, they're lousy politicians. They have horrible policy. The one thing they're good at, they stick together and they obstruct. And it's unfortunate. You know, we have almost 400 people trying to get into government, many of whom have left their jobs and the Democrats are holding them up with maximum delay. They're holding them up, not allowing these great people to serve their country. It's a disgrace. That's Chuck Schumer, and it's a disgrace. It's a disgrace. But we'll get that Supreme Court judge, and that's the big one. That's the big one. Really important for those who love our military, we have secured a record $700 billion for our military with another $716 billion next year all approved. And this is great news for the incredible patriots at MacDill Air Force Base, the proud home of the Sixth Air Mobility Wing U.S. Central Command and Special Operations Command. Come on! We're adding nearly 30,000 new soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and we have secured the largest pay raise for our great warriors in a decade. I've also directed the Pentagon to begin the process of creating the sixth branch of our military, the space force  building the space force. And we're doing well in North Korea, although I happen to think that we're doing so well with China that China maybe is getting in our way. But we're going to figure that one out before you can even think about it. But we're doing well in North Korea. We have our  as you know, we have our hostages back. There's been no nuclear testing. There's been no missiles or rockets flying beautifully over Japan. I think our relationship is very good with Chairman Kim, and we'll all see how it all works out. But there's nothing like talking, and we'll see how it is. You remember when I first took office? It really looked like big trouble. In the past administration, they thought that was by far their biggest problem. So I think it's going to work out very well. But a lot of good things are happening. No tests. No rockets flying. But we'll see what happens. And our Vice President, Mike Pence, is going to Hawaii to bring back the remains and to greet the families of our great heroes who gave their lives in Korea. Our fallen warriors are finally coming home to lay at rest in American soil.  I also withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided, $150 billion was paid  $1.8 billion in cash. The Iran nuclear deal, it's a horror show. I hope it works out well with Iran, they're having a lot of difficulty right now. I hope it works out well. And I have a feeling they'll be talking to us pretty soon. And maybe not and that's okay too. In December, I recognized Israel's true capital, Jerusalem. And in about five months we opened already the American embassy in Jerusalem. And people had that scheduled for anywhere from five to ten years and you all know the story. We took an existing building. We played around with it. We renovated it. We fixed it up. We use Jerusalem stone, one of the finest stones actually in the world, Jerusalem stone. So, instead of spending 1 billion and the papers were right in front of me  sir, would you please approve this? What is it? This is for the embassy in Israel, American, sir. I said, ""How much?"" ""$1 billion, Sir. 1 billion!"" I immediately called our great ambassador to Israel, David Friedman  very successful man, great lawyer, one of the most successful lawyers in the country before he decided to do what he's doing. I said, ""David, they want us to pay a billion dollars for the embassy. I don't want to pay a billion dollars."" I said, ""Study it  do you have any buildings that we own?"" We own so much we don't even know what the hell we own. ""Find some building in a great location. Call me back."" Called me back two days later. He said, ""Mr. President, Sir, we own the best site in Jerusalem. It's big. It's beautiful and it's got a building on "
"Well, thank you, Montana. What a place. What a place. And it's great to be here tonight with thousands of proud, hard-working American patriots. Thank you. And outside, you probably know what's going on. There are thousands and thousands of people. And we've decided from now on, we're going to put up screens and loud speakers so people can stay around. Because this happens all the time. I said to my people why didn't you get a larger arena. We can't, right? We can't. But those are great people outside and I apologize. But there are thousands of them and -- yes. We really -- really love them. But you people know real estate better. You know real estate better. So it's pretty good stuff. And you're inside and I'm inside and we love each other and it's going to stay that way. So we are thrilled to be joined by some great people. You just heard Steve Daines. He has been so helpful. He has been so helpful in Washington on the tax cuts and everything else. And I want to thank Steve and his family. They have been incredible for me in Washington. Thank you, Steve. I appreciate it. And Steve and I are running again. You know, 2020 he comes up, so we're running together, Steve. And I want to thank Greg Gianforte. He's a member of Congress who has been 100 percent with us. Incredible success story. A lot of people don't know that but Greg is an incredible success and did a really good job and then he said he wants to give back. And Greg, you have been fantastic. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Montana Attorney General Tim Fox. Thank you, Tim. Secretary of State, Corey Stapleton. Thank you, Corey. Montana Republican Party Chairwoman Deborah Lamb. Superintendent of Public Instructions Elsie Arntzen. And finally, the person that we are here for tonight. A very special person, ran a incredible primary, wouldn't you say? Incredible? Anytime you win, it's incredible. But he did against some very tough and good competition. And hey, he's going to be your next senator from the incredible state of Montana. Matt Rosendale. Come up, Matt. Come up, Matt. Hello, Montana. Do we have an incredible president or what? We actually have a president who fights every single day for the people across this great nation. And here at home, he's fighting for military men and women serving right here in Malmstrom Air Force Base and across the country. And for all our veterans and for our seniors, he's fighting for our folks working in the timber industry, and our energy production. He's fighting for our hardworking farmers and ranchers across the entire state. And you know he's fighting for our miners down in Butte and those coal workers in Colstrip who produce that beautiful clean coal. He's also fighting for everyone across our state who feels their voice isn't being heard, including the unborn. And I will be that voice for you if you elect me to the United States Senate. And I will fight for you every day because I mean business about standing with President Trump to make America great again. Because what's good for America is great for Montana. Today, I ask for your vote so that I can help President Trump continue his good work. Thank you, President Trump. Thank you, Montana. May God bless each and every one of you and the great United States of America. Thank you very much. That was great. This is a really good man. This is a man that loves the people of Montana, loves the people of this country. It's time to retire liberal Democrat Jon Tester. And you're going to get on your side a real Montana fighter. You see it. You've been watching for the last six months, he is a tough cookie. He's a fighter. He's going to fight for you, Matt Rosendale. So Jon Tester says one thing when he's in Montana. But I will tell you, I'm testament to it, he does the exact opposite when he goes to Washington. A vote for Jon Tester is a vote for Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, and the new leader of the Democrat Party Maxine Waters. Where have they gone? Jon Tester voted no on repealing Obamacare. And even though we got a little surprise vote that evening, you all remember that evening somebody came in with a thumbs down after campaigning for years that he was going to repeal and replace. But that's OK because we, for the most part, have already done it. And we have great health care coming out and it just came out two weeks ago. And we got rid of the individual mandate and lots of other things. Sometimes we have to do it the hard way, but that's OK, too. Jon Tester voted no on tax cuts for Montana families. He voted no on cutting the estate tax or the death tax for your farms, your farmers, and your small businesses. Think of that one. Think of that one. But you got it anyway because we got it passed. So, on your farms, for the most part, you will have no estate tax or death tax to pay. You can leave your farm, you can leave your small business to your children or whoever you want to leave them, don't always leave them to the children. If the children aren't good children don't, leave them to somebody else. But you have no tax to pay, pretty good, right? Nobody thought that was going to happen. Tester voted against it. Jon Tester voted no on legislation to stop late term abortions. You wouldn't think it'd play very well out here. How did he get elected? I mean, I know -- I know a lot of people from Montana. You've got to explain that one to me. How did he get elected? All right. You can right your wrong in November, OK? You can right your wrong. Matt Rosendale. Jon Tester voted no on Kate's Law. You know what Kate's Law is. That's legislation named for Kate Steinle who was gunned down by a five-time deported illegal immigrant. You deserve a senator who doesn't just talk like he's from Montana. You deserve a senator who actually votes like he's from Montana. Tester even voted no on enhanced vetting for refugees from terror-stricken countries. You believe this one? What's going on with that? The Democrats want open borders, which means lots of crime. We want tough, strong, powerful borders, and we want no crime and we're going to protect ICE. We protect ICE. They protect us and we protect them. They protect us and we protect them. You saw that clown yesterday on the Statue of Liberty? You see the guys that went up there? I wouldn't have done it. I would have said let's get some nets and let's wait until she comes down. Just get some nets. Really? Yes. You see those guys -- the bravery of doing that? What a group. We protect ICE, and our border patrol, and our law enforcement, and our fire department. And our fire department. We protect our people. Jon Tester opposed our travel ban to keep America safe, which, by the way, I'm proud to report that last week the Supreme Court of the United States just upheld the Trump travel ban. And they gave us the authority to protect our nation, keep our nation safe -- to keep it safe. As you know, there's now a vacancy on the Supreme Court. And if you turn in Monday at 9 o'clock, I think you're going to be extremely with the selection, right? And they're all great. They're all great. And I want to thank Justice Kennedy for his lifetime of truly distinguished service. And he had confidence in me. He left because he said you're going to pick somebody great, and so nice. So nice. Great man, great --a great gentleman. Jon Tester voted against Neil Gorsuch, the incredible justice who supports fully our Constitution. That's a hard one to vote against, isn't it? Tester opposed many of our amazing judges. And yet, I see Jon Tester saying such nice things about me. I say, yes, but he never votes for me. He never votes. And it's all -- I'd rather have him say bad about me but vote, right? Yes, Jon Tester voted for liberal Obama judges who tried to take away your Second Amendment, tried to take it away because Tester doesn't share your values. Jon Tester showed his true colors with his shameful dishonest attacks on a great man, a friend of mine. A man that I said, why don't you run the V.A.? You'd be great. Navy Admiral Ronny Jackson. And a report just came out, and I should have brought it because I would have read it, but it's long but beautiful for Ronny Jackson. Secret Service are all over the place. And they wrote a report that what he said was so false and so untrue. Never happened. And they could have ruined -- they could have ruined -- could have ruined a lesser man. But Dr. Jackson -- I don't know do I -- should I call him ""admiral"" or ""doctor"" -- I'll call him both. Doctor slash Admiral. He's a doctor, he's an Admiral, his son is a top -- really a top, like a top, top student at Annapolis graduating this year. An incredible wife, incredible family. You know I feel guilty. I feel guilty. Admiral Jackson was getting ready to leave service and he served many years admirably. Not a blemish. Perfect. Beautiful person. A lot of you know exactly. He actually said I was healthy. You know he's the one. When the fake news started and said why isn't Trump giving the physical? Why? Dr. Jackson and his staff, they went out, they gave me a physical. That was a physical.  And when they said I'm very healthy, the news was devastated. They were devastated. They didn't want to hear that. They didn't want to hear that. But he's a great family man and -- and I said to him, I feel guilty. I said, hey, doc, why don't you run the V.A.? You're a leader, you're an Admiral, people admire you. He's an admired guy or I wouldn't have done it. Well, sir, I wasn't really thinking of that. I say, doc, you'll be great. Go ahead and do it. Sir, whatever your order, I will do. You know he's like, even if he didn't want to do it, he said that to me. In fact, you're great First Lady said to me that same day, well, did he want to do it? I said I really don't know, he said he'd do it. But then when I thought about it, I don't know. But he said, if you ask, I will do it. But he didn't really want to do it. So I sort of feel guilty about this whole thing because what happened is he said, sir, if you would like me to do it I'll do it. Wasn't what he had in mind. I put him into the world of politics. How vicious is the world? But Jon Tester said things about him that were horrible and that weren't true.  And that's probably why I'm here because I won Montana by so many points I don't have to come here.. You know a lot of people from states where we have these crazy big leads, we had 42 and 44 -- we won by 44 points over a Democrat. Over a Democrat. We won -- won by 44 points over a Democrat. Now it was Crooked Hillary, but still she's a Democrat.  And -- yes. No, she gets special treatment. Sorry. Sorry. She gets special treatment under the Justice Department.  Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. She gets special treatment under the Justice Department.  Anybody else in America -- how about that FBI agent? How about that guy? You think he likes me? You think he likes me? You think there was just a little bias there -- a little bias? Oh, did we catch them in the act. It's a rigged deal folks. It's a rigged deal. I used to say it. It's a rigged deal. It's a disgrace. And we go away on Monday. We appoint and go away, and I'll see lots of people. I'll see NATO and I'm going to tell NATO -- you got to start paying your bills. The United States is not going to take care of everything. We're paying for anywhere from 70 to 90 percent to protect Europe, and that's fine. Of course they kill us on trade. They kill us on other things. They make it impossible to do business in Europe, and yet they come in and they sell their Mercedes and their BMWs to us. So we have $151 billion in trade deficits with the E.U. And on top of that, they kill us with NATO. They kill us. So we pay 4 percent of a huge GDP, which got a lot bigger since I became your president. And Germany -- Germany which is the biggest country of the E.U., European Union, Germany pays 1 percent One percent. And I said, you know, Angela, I can't guarantee it, but we're protecting you, and it means a lot more to you than protecting us because I don't know how much protection we get by protecting you. And then they go out and make a gas deal, oil and gas, from Russia, where they pay billions and billions of dollars to Russia. OK, so they want to protect against Russia, and yet they pay billions of dollars to Russia, and we are the schmucks that are paying for the whole thing.  So then -- and by the way, I have to say this. Since I came, which is a year and a half, almost $33 billion more is projected to be paid by those NATO nations, but it's not enough. Do they ever tell you that? No, no. But I will tell you, the Secretary General Stoltenberg is Trump's biggest fan. He says, those NATO nations are going like this, less money, less money. Why not? And when you started talking, it went like a rocket ship. Went just like a rocket ship. So anytime I suggest anything -- so we've got $33 billion -- it's going to be a lot more money than that. But then they say, let's see, he's angry at NATO. I guess, yeah, he loves Russia. I love Russia. I will say this, I am meeting with President Putin next week and getting along -- let me tell you, getting along with Russia and getting along with China and getting along with other countries is a good thing. It's not a bad thing. It's a good thing. I would say for stupid people or for political people, because they're not stupid, all they are good at obstruction, good at resisting. You know, their whole thing there thing is resist, but every time it comes up -- I will say this, I'm going to have to ask them this question. How bad has it been since Trump has been in? Take a look at what's happened. Take a look we've just increased our military spending. We are at $700 billion. We've become a nation that is exporting energy for the first time. We're exporting energy. So many things. And you look at the money that NATO is getting now. They're probably saying in Russia, you know, if we did like this guy, we've made a big mistake. We'd rather have crooked Hillary Clinton. I think they would much rather have Hillary. But getting along with other countries -- and you're talking nuclear powers, in all fairness. Getting along is really a nice thing. It's a smart thing. We're going to beat everybody, we have the greatest military. We have now -- look we have now -- and hopefully, we'll never have to use it. The only way you're never going to have to use it? If it's so powerful, so good, so strong that nobody wants to play games, and that's what we are doing. We'll never have to use it. And then of course, we have North Korea, where you noticed eight months -- so during the Obama administration, it seemed like a missile a week. I mean a lot of missiles going up, a lot of rockets going up, a lot of nuclear testing. They thought there was an earthquake the size of something they had never tested before. They said, where is it? Oh it's in Korea someplace. They said, why don't you check nuclear weapons. It was a nuclear weapon. So since the rhetoric stopped --we had very tough rhetoric. Wouldn't you say it was a little tough, right? So remember, they said, he's too tough. He's going to cause a war. It's too tough. Now they say he's too nice. Hes too nice. I got along very well with Chairman Kim. I got along well -- that's a good that I got along well. Now what hasn't happened in eight months? In eight months -- first of all, we got our prisoners back before I even went, right? And I didn't pay $1.8 billion by the way, in cash. We didn't pay $1.8 billion, right? We paid slightly less than 1.8. We paid nothing. And yet -- and yet it was a very smart deal for North Korea. Goodwill is very important. But we signed a wonderful paper saying they're going to denuclearize their whole thing. It's going to all happen. But now, you know, you're back -- I was back I think six days, ""Why hasn't is started? Why?"" I mean, these guys, like -- Obama was very close to going to war. You have 30 million people in Seoul. It's 30 miles off the border. And that's a tough border. Thousands of -- of cannons, they call them. These are big, big guns. I'm not even talking about nuclear. You could have lost 30, 40, 50 million people. You could have had a war like you haven't had in a long time. And guess what you have now? Eight months, no nuclear testing, no missiles, no anything. Mike Pompeo is over there right now. And they -- they --they say, ""He"" -- meaning me, these guys, the crooked press, they are so dishonest.  Fake news. They're fake news media. So what do they say all the time? Because I didn't give anything up. What do they say all the time? They say, ""He went there."" I went there. I went to Singapore. We had a meeting. ""By agreeing to meet"" -- you know, they can't come up with anything else, like -- I didn't give, like Clinton and like Obama would have -- you know, Obama couldn't meet. Now they say, ""Well Obama"" -- Obama couldn't meet. They wouldn't see him. So I didn't have -- like Clinton, where they gave him billions and billions of dollars and got nothing. OK? So they couldn't find anything, so what did they do? They say, ""He met."" I met. That's what we lost, folks. He met. Now by the way, Obama would have loved to have met. They wouldn't see him. They wouldn't see him. One of the first question I asked when I was over there, they wouldn't see him. So I met. That's how we got beaten. That -- now they're saying it with Putin. ""Well, Putin is highly prepared, and Trump, will he be prepared for the meeting?"" Trust me, we'll do just fine. We'll do good. Fake news. Bad people. Will he be prepared? Will he be prepared? And I might even end up having a good relationship, but they're going, ""Will President Trump be prepared? You know, President Putin is KGB and this and that."" You know what? Putin's fine. He's fine. We're all fine. We're people. Will I be prepared? Totally prepared. I've been preparing for this stuff my whole life. They don't say that. They don't say that. And you really do, you really -- and I tell you what. Because I see it. I see the way they write. They're so damn dishonest. And I don't mean all of them, because some of the finest people I know are journalists. Really. Hard to believe when I say that. I hate to say it, but I have to say. But 75 percent of those people are downright dishonest. Downright dishonest. They're fake. They're fake. They quote sources -- ""A source within the Trump organization said"" -- a source. They don't have a source. They never use names anymore. You know, in the old days, you have to use names. ""Jim Smith said that Donald Trump is a bad guy."" They don't do that anymore. They say, ""A source within the administration."" They make the sources up. They don't exist in many cases. Any time you say -- you know, I saw one of them said ""15 anonymous sources"" -- I don't have 15 people in the White -- I mean, forget it.  Fifteen anonymous sources have said all sorts of stuff. These are really bad people. But here's the bottom line: we're here. How the hell did we get here? Really? How did ... How did we get here? So if you look at Jon Tester, he signed up for the Democrats' radical immigration agenda, which is ""let them come in, and we believe they say, in sanctuary cities where they house the criminals and others"" -- we believe in strong borders and no crime, it's very simple. Strong border. We believe in coming into this country legally. We believe in coming in legally. We believe in the merit system. So when you have a business and somebody comes in and honestly -- hate to tell you this, got to go with it -- we are doing so well. So many businesses are moving back to this country. So many car companies are coming back into Michigan and to Ohio and to Pennsylvania and to North and South Carolina. We need people. We don't have the workers anymore. And by the way, that's something that's unique. You haven't heard that for a long time. Wages are going up. Right? But we need people. But who do we need? We need people that come in under the merit system. Under the merit system. A vote for the Democrats in November is a vote to let MS-13 run wild in our communities.  To let drugs pour into our cities, and to take jobs and benefits away from our hardworking Americans, and we're not letting it happen. Democrats want anarchy, they really do, and they don't know who they're playing with, folks. I said it the other day, yes, she is a low IQ individual, Maxine Waters. I said it the other day. High -- I mean, honestly, she's somewhere in the mid-60s, I believe that. He will be impeached. I will impeach him. Even the Democrats are saying, ""How are you saying that?"" They don't want to use that word, because it gets the Republicans out to vote. They say, ""Stay away from that word. Especially since he's done nothing wrong."" That helps also, right? There's no collusion. No collusion. After spending $22 million, it's awfully tough. And the House just left and they said, ""There's no collusion."" Can you imagine this? It's all a ruse. This was an excuse for the Democrats who lost an election, who actually got their ass kicked, 306... 306 to 223, that's a pretty good shellackit; 306 -- hey, we won states -- take Wisconsin, I just left Wisconsin. So we won -- in fact, we're building -- they're building -- friends of mine -- Foxconn, they make the Apple laptops and iPhones are incredible. They're -- we're going to spend -- they are going to spend, like, $11 billion, and this is going to be about a $15 billion plant. There will be nothing like it in this country, and frankly, outside of China, there will be nothing like it, but by the time it's finished, it'll top anything in China also. It's incredible. It's incredible. But -- but $15 billion, 15,000 jobs to Wisconsin. But think of Wisconsin. Reagan had his big win. He won every state except for one, the great state of Wisconsin. I won Wisconsin. First time -- first time since Dwight Eisenhower in 1952. And we won Michigan. And we won Pennsylvania, North Carolina and South Carolina and Florida, we ran up that East Coast. You had a run up that East Coast -- winning the Electoral College is very tough for a Republican, much tougher than the so-called ""popular vote,"" where people vote four times, you know. Much tougher. Much, much tougher. We had a great -- we had a great victory. But think of it. Not since Dwight Eisenhower, 1952. What an -- was that one of the great evenings? Was that one of the... And I always say, because the ratings that they're getting are beyond belief. You know, the New York Times was ready to fold. It was going to close. And then I came along, unfortunately, and they -- they sell. But don't worry. Because ultimately, when I leave in 7 years from now... Of course... They'll fold. They will fold. No, no, when you see the Times, how dishonest they are, when you see the Washington Post, how totally dishonest -- when we leave -- and I actually say this: they are all doing numbers that they've, like, never done. When I announce, they are going to endorse me. Because if I lose -- should I lose -- or if I don't run, they're out of business. Who's going to cover? They're going to cover Bernie? Hey, they're going to cover like sleepy Joe Biden? They're going to cover Pocahontas who was? Think of it. Think of it, she of the great tribal heritage. What tribe is it? Let me think about that one. Meantime, she's based her life on being a minority. Pocahontas -- they always want me to apologize for saying that and I hereby -- oh no, I want to apologize. I'll use tonight. Pocahontas, I apologize to you. I apologize -- to you I apologize. To the fake Pocahontas, I won't apologize. No, it's causing problems. You know that's name causing -- because now even the liberals are saying take a test. Take a test. You know, the -- I tell you, I shouldn't tell you because I like not to give away secrets but this one. Let's say I'm debating Pocahontas, right? I promise you I'll do this. I will take -- you know those little kits they sell on television for $2. Learn your heritage. The guy says I was born in Scotland, it turns out he was born in Puerto Rico. And that's OK. It's good, you know. Guy says I was born in Germany, well, he wasn't born in Germany. He was born someplace else. I'm going to get one of those little kits and in the middle of the debate when she proclaims that she's of Indian heritage because her mother says she has high cheekbones. That's her only evidence, that her mother said she had high cheekbones. We will take that little kit and say, but we have to do it gently. Because we're in the me-too generation so I have to be very gentle. And we will very gently take that kit and we will slowly toss it, hoping it doesn't hit her and injure her arm even though it only weighs probably two ounces. And we will say, I will give you a million dollars to your favorite charity, paid for by Trump, if you take the test so that it shows you're an Indian. You know. And let's see what she does. I have a feeling she will say no but we will that for the debates. Do me a favor, keep it within this room. Because I don't want to give away any secrets and the press is very honorable, they won't. Please don't tell her what I just said. Democrats are launching outrageous attacks against our incredible law enforcement and our ICE and border patrol. The new platform of the Democrat party, and by the way, I call it the Democrat party. It sounds better rhetorically, you know. I wrote best sellers, I guess I speak well. You know, we turned away thousands of people. They never say I'm a great speaker. Why the hell do so many people come? Why -- I don't think -- it's true, why do they come? Why? Why, oh why, do they come? It's got to be something. I guess they like my policy -- maybe my policy. No, it's true. Have you ever noticed, you never hear that -- you never hear that. You never hear it. I mean, there's got to be a reason. I have broken more Elton John records, he seems to have a lot of records and we beat -- and I, by the way, I don't have a musical instrument. I don't have a guitar or an organ. No organ. Elton has an organ and lots of other people help him. You know we've broken a lot of records. We've broken virtually every record because you know, look, I only need this space. They need much more room for basketball, for hockey, for all the sports. They need a lot of room. We don't need it. We have people in that space, so we break all these records. But really we do it without like the musical instruments. This is the only musical, the mouth, and hopefully the brain attached to the mouth, right? The brain, more important than the mouth is the brain. The brain is much more important. But they -- do you ever notice -- do you ever hear something, they say -- you know we had a case last week we were in a great place in Wisconsin. And we had a tremendous crowd and we have like the choice of a 22,000 seat arena and in retrospect, we would have packed it and they would have sent away thousands of people. But the people said to me, very innocent people, they were great. But I hadn't met them. I said why didn't you -- they -- they filled up a 7,000 seat arena, walked away thousands of people, like over 20. and we would have filled -- and I said why didn't you use the bigger arena? He said, sir, we knew that if you had five vacant seats, empty seats -- see vacant just because I was in the , I'll say use that term. If you had five empty seats, they would say Donald Trump was unable to fill the arena. And I said, you know what, you're right. How about the one from the Washington Post? They got there four hours early and the arena hadn't started even letting people in. So there was just a few people, you all saw that story, I hope. You all saw that story, right? They got there four hours, five hours -- this writer, sleazebag -- he didn't get fired. He said Donald Trump had an empty arena, except when I showed up, the place was packed and they had to walk away thousands of people. Right? And I didn't see this story but you know who saw the story? The people that were in the arena and they went nuts. And they apologized but you know where they apologized? On Twitter. They didn't write -- they apologized but they had the story Donald Trump, not very good crowd tonight. And they show a totally empty arena that four hours later -- and by the way, hate to say it, take a look at the pictures for the inauguration. We had some monster crowd. Big, monster -- big monster -- but take a look at that. So they show an arena before the people started coming in. There were a few people, four or five hours ahead, and they apologized because it's a disgrace. But let me just tell you, the Democrats -- we call them the Democrat party. You know why? The Democratic party sounds too good. Sounds better, doesn't it? I always hate saying the Democrat party. A lot of people say you meant to say well actually their name is the Democrat party. The Democratic party sounds too good so I don't want to use it. OK? The new platform of the Democrat party is to abolish ICE. In other words, they want to abolish immigration enforcement entirely. That's what they want to do. They want -- they want everybody coming in. And you know the beauty with ICE -- they're so tough. When you have these MS-13 thugs come in, ICE goes in and wipes them out like nothing because they're much tougher. They wipe them out and they liberate towns and on islands and other places. You know its like -- it's like you're occupied. It's like a nation is occupying your country. So we're taking them out by the thousands. And if it weren't for ICE, we wouldn't be doing it. These are savage gangs, MS-13 and others. We will not stand for these vile Democrat smears against our law enforcement and that includes our great police. That includes our great border patrol. That includes our military where they're always fighting against funding for the military. We will always stand by, proudly, the heroes -- and they're our heroes on ICE and border patrol and law enforcement and on military. Every day I'm president, we will track down the gang members, drug deals, child predators and criminal aliens that we find. We will get them. We will throw the hell out of our country or put them in jail. So this year -- in November if you want to save ICE and frankly, if you want to save your law enforcement, if you want to save your military, getting military funding -- we've got $700 billion, the biggest ever, then next year $760. We saved our military getting military funding from these Democrats is almost impossible. They don't want it, they don't care about military, they don't care about our law enforcement. They couldn't give a damn. You better vote Republican. We need more Republicans. If you want to protect your family and your community, then you have no choice. You have to vote , you have to vote for Republicans. If you want to have a country, if you want borders -- how about borders? Would it be nice to have borders?  And, yes, we are already building the wall. It started in California, in San Diego. $1.6 billion, we're asking for $5 billion. And I'll tell you what, it's -- it's brutal with these people. They don't want it. They -- they know it's the right thing to do but they think it will help me. It's not even the Republicans -- they think it'll help Trump. If we do it, it's good for Trump. Let's not do it. They're great Americans. Every day, we are keeping our promises. We've created 3.4 million jobs since Election Day, which nobody can even believe. Nobody believes it. I always say if I would have said that on the campaign trail when I was here or anyplace else it would have been brutal. They would have said, how can you possibly say a thing like that, 3.4 million new jobs? Unemployment claims are at a 45-year low. African-American and Hispanic-American unemployment have reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. Remember, what do you have to lose? Remember, what do you have to lose? People didn't like it when I said that. What do you have to lose? Guess, what, we're right. In fact, a new poll came out last week, we were up -- in like a week -- 10 points with the Hispanic community. Ten points. Because they want to be safe. Unemployment among women is at the lowest level it's been in 65 years in, within a couple of weeks, history. Our economic policy can be summed up in three very simple but beautiful but beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs. Since the election, we have lifted 3 million "
"Wow. Oh, hello, Fargo. Hi, Fargo. We love you, Fargo. What a place. What a place. Thank you very much. This is an honor. You know, I wish we could have had this stage back about 100 yards. You'd see how many people. This place is packed. This place is packed. The only thing more packed is outside, trying to get in. They're having a hard time. They can't get in. It's full. You know, we had the chance for a 24,000-seat arena. And we should have taken it. The problem is, if we had two empty seats, we didn't quite get there, which will always happen, they will say, ""He didn't fill up the arena. He didn't fill it up."" Right. That's what they'll say. ""He didn't fill that arena up."" Twenty-four thousand seats. No, we would have filled it up very easily, in retrospect, but that's OK. Thank you very much. I am thrilled to be here in the great state of North Dakota with so many hard-working American patriots. Right? And I want to congratulate -- right? We want to do this. You know what I'm going to say. I want to congratulate the North Dakota State Bison. I shouldn't tell you this. I shouldn't tell you this, but when I was coming out, they were talking about Bison. I said, ""I thought there was an s."" They said, ""It is. But it's pronounced Bizon."" So, we didn't want to get that wrong, right? But that is some -- that is some great national championship team. That's a great group of winners. Winners. We're honored to be joined by many of your wonderful North Dakota leaders. Your governor, and a great guy, Doug Burgum, and his wife, First Lady of North Dakota, Kathryn Burgum. Where are you, Governor? Where are you? Thank you, Governor. Your former governor, Ed Schafer. Ed. Nice guy. A friend of mine, who employs a lot of people, a very successful guy. He puts a straw in the ground and oil comes out. These big companies, they go out, they spend billions looking for oil. They don't find anything. Harold Hamm. Where's Harold? Where is Harold? If I ever want to find oil, I'm going to call Harold. Here's a straw, Harold. North Dakota Republican Party Chairman, great guy, really helpful, Rick Berg. Thank you, Rick. A man who is so incredibly helpful, to me and to you, and to everybody. A special person who works so hard. I call him all-action, no-talk, that's -- don't we like that? All-action... Senator John Hoeven. He is fantastic. And I also want to thank Kelly Armstrong, who's running for Congress. He's going to win. And Kelly, thank you very much. Thank you. Good guy. We also have a couple of big supporters. Do you ever see this guy with the pillows on Fox? John? MyPillow guy. Mike Liddell. Where is Mike? He is the greatest. I have never seen so many ads for so long. And you know what? I think he gets them for, like, peanuts. First of all, he does make a great product. Great pillows. I actually use them, believe it or not. But he's been -- he's been a supporter from day one. And I said, ""You know, I want you to be my ad buyer."" Because I guarantee you, he makes great deals. So, I haven't asked him yet. Will you be my ad buyer, please, Mike? The MyPillow guy. Thank you. And he's been with us right from the beginning. Along with a lot of other folks, actually. We've had a great journey together, and we are making progress like nobody thought possible. Finally, the person we are all here tonight to support, a special person, an incredible person, the next United States Senator from the great state of North Dakota, Kevin Cramer. Kevin, come out. Good guy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. All I can say is, Mr. President, on behalf of all of the thousands of people in this arena, and the tens of thousands outside of this arena, who live in flyover country, thank you for not forgetting us. And for all the farmers, and the manufacturers, and the families, and the energy workers, thank you for rolling back all of those regulations so they can not only keep their jobs but create more jobs. And, Mr. President, on behalf of the middle-class working families represented in this room and throughout the heartland, thank you for cutting their taxes, so they can keep more of their hard-earned money right here. And, Mr. President, on behalf of the most vulnerable forgotten people, the unborn babies, thank you for standing for life. Thank you. And on these very important North Dakota values, you'll never have to wonder where I'll be, because I'll always be with them and with you, 100 percent of the time. Thank you. God bless you. Welcome to North Dakota. USA! USA! USA! I have got to tell you, that's pretty good. That's pretty good. He did good. He loves you. I will tell you that. He loves this state, loves the people. And we need Kevin Cramer to replace liberal Democrat Heidi Heitkamp in the Senate. Going to happen. It's going to happen. When Heidi ran for office, she promised to be an independent vote for the people of North Dakota. Instead, she went to Washington and immediately joined Chuck. You know who Chuck is. And Nancy. And now they have a new leader. Who's the new leader?  Maxine Waters is their new leader.  Maxine Waters. I think she's taking over. You know, they say, took. I never believed I was taking over the Republican Party. They say that to cause problems. But Maxine Waters is taking over the Democrat Party, so. Heidi voted no on the Obamacare repeal. And, by the way, it was done. It was done. Unfortunately, she wouldn't vote. And another person didn't vote. We had it done. Another person campaigned for eight years. ""Repeal and replace."" And we were a little surprised when the thumb went down. But we're doing very well. You see what's happening. We're coming up with incredible plans. We've gotten rid of the individual mandate, which is terrible. It's been gutted. But remember this. Individual mandate, where you have the privilege of paying a lot of money for the second privilege of not having to pay for not getting health care. What kind of a deal is that? So, you pay in order to not to have to pay, because you don't want the health care because it was no good anyway. So, we have, though our Secretary of Labor, Alex Acosta, we just came out with the association plan, which is phenomenal. Millions and millions of people are signing up. And we're coming out with another plan with Alex Azar. We are coming out with that plan in two weeks. We are coming out with so many health care plans. It is so much better than anything you've ever seen before. Competitive. And Obamacare is essentially dead. I would have been happier with a nice yes vote instead of a no vote, but that's OK. We're doing great. And probably we wouldn't have come up with these two other plans. And it's actually three, now, other plans if we didn't. You know, sometimes you work under pressure, and you do better, right? I think most of the people in this room, under pressure, you end up doing better. There are those people. We want to know those people. Heidi voted no on our massive tax cuts for North Dakota families. She voted ""no.""  Not one Democrat voted to cut your taxes. And the other day Nancy Pelosi said we have to raise your taxes. What's that all about? She wants to raise your taxes. Heidi voted no on legislation to stop late term abortions.  Heidi voted in favor of the deadly, very, very dangerous, horrible sanctuary cities.  You need a senator who doesn't just talk like they're from North Dakota but votes like they're from North Dakota. That's what you need. And that is Kevin Cramer. So, a vote for any Democrat is November is a vote for Schumer, Pelosi, and Maxine.  Maxine. She's a beauty.  I mean, she practically was telling people the other day to assault. Can you imagine if I said the things she said? We demand that he immediately drop out of the race. Can you imagine, seriously, if I said that, or somebody else said that? Horrible, what she said. Now they want to censure her. Let's see where that goes, folks.  Her own party was talking about censure. Let's see where that goes. Heidi was also against us from the very beginning of the travel ban, a common-sense policy to improve our vetting and our national security. And I'm proud to report that, just yesterday, the Supreme Court upheld the travel ban...... and our authority to keep America safe. USA! USA! USA! And, by the way -- by the way, a lot of media back here.  If crooked Hillary would have won this election, and if she came here, which is about a zero percent change, after the election,... she'd have 200 people in a conference room in a small hotel.  You know, the saddest thing, we, I, we're making them rich. They never had ratings like this. You know, when the NFL is down 20 percent, it's the flag. But it's also the fact that everybody is watching us on the different cable networks. Because, frankly, they find this more exciting than the NFL, and a hell of a lot more dangerous, right? And is there any better place to be on a nice, beautiful evening in North Dakota than at a Trump rally, right? We're having a good time. And I wish those cameras would circle the room to see how many thousands of people are here, because, you know, on the screen I look -- and all you see are those few beautiful, wonderful people -- I don't know who the hell I -- but you've got a nice group over there. I know you have Mike and some others. They're going to be so famous. But you see, like, that little group. That's all you see on camera. Would you please circle the room for the few honest... Please circle. Trump! Trump! Trump! USA! USA! USA! No, I just looked at the screen, and I said to my people, ""How many people are here?"" They said, ""Six thousand in the arena, but we're going to be -- have to, unfortunately, walk 15,000 or 18,000 people that couldn't get in."" I said, ""You've got to be kidding, because on the screen it looks like there's exactly 30 people. What the hell is this?  The late, great, Cecil B. DeMille would not have set it up this way, I will tell you. The travel ban ruling underscores just how critical it is to confirm judges who will support our Constitution, our great, great Constitution. Justice Anthony Kennedy, a very special guy, also just announced a little while ago his retirement from the United States Supreme Court. Great man. And I'm very honored that he chose to do it during my term in office, because he felt confident in me to make the right choice and carry on his great legacy. That's why he did it. And I'd like to take a moment to show our great appreciation for Justice Kennedy's lifetime of distinguished service. Terrific man. Service to our nation, and to the cause of liberty. We were thrilled to appoint one of Kennedy's former clerks to the Supreme Court. Did you ever hear of Justice Neil Gorsuch? He's doing great. He's a star. And Justice Kennedy is a star. And we appreciate it. We really have to take our hats off to Justice Kennedy. Thank you very much. And remember this. So, we have a pick to come up. We have to pick a great one. We have to pick one that's going to be there for 40 years, 45 years. Yeah. We need intellect. We need so many things to go. You know, there's so many elements go into the making of a great Justice of the Supreme Court. You've got to hit every one of them. Heidi will vote no to any pick we make for the Supreme Court. She will be told to do so. Now, maybe, because of this, she'll be forced to vote yes. Who knows? But I will tell you she'll vote no the day after the election on everything. Justice Kennedy's retirement makes the issue of Senate control one of the vital issues of our time. The most important thing we can do. Democrats want judges who will rewrite the Constitution any way they want to do it, and take away your Second Amendment, erase your borders...  ... throw open the jailhouse doors and destroy your freedoms.  We must elect more Republicans. We have to do that. And the problem is, in the Senate, we have 51. We don't have enough. We lose one. If somebody gets a bad cold, let's assume they come in for a cold, but let's assume it's worse than that. It's a very tough situation. We need more Republicans, especially in the Senate. We have to hold the House, and maybe even increase it. And I think we'll be able to do it. They keep talking about this blue wave. Their blue wave is really sputtering pretty badly. The red wave is happening. Just look what happened last night. Famous people. Oh, they're going to be so famous tomorrow. You were in that little group of people behind the president. Yeah. They're going to be famous people, those people. You have a better location, but they're going to be famous. Republicans want strong borders and no crime. Very simple. Not complex. Democrats want open borders and crime, crime, crime happens automatically when you have those open borders.  The Democrats want to let the country be overrun. Just take a look at what's going on. Everybody comes in, including the vile gang, MS-13, which Nancy Pelosi has gone out and wants to protect, OK? We don't want to protect them. Do you remember two weeks ago, you remember that. Republicans love our military. They love our vets and our police. The Democrats are always fighting against funding for the military, and funding for law enforcement. Figure that one out. Democrats are now launching vicious smears against our incredible ICE officers and our Border Patrol agents. Every single day the men and women of ICE and the CBP work long hours in the most dangerous conditions you can imagine, to defend our families, and to defend our communities, and to defend our borders, and defend us. And I'll tell you what. You know, far fewer people are coming through, as much as I complain, coming through our southern border. And now it's getting worse because we have so much opportunity here. We have done so well. And we want people to come into our country. But we want them to come into our country based on merit. Merit. Not picked out of a jar. And we're sending MS-13 out by the thousands. By the thousands. We're liberating towns in Long Island. We are sending MS-13 out. You know, our ICE officers, they're tough. I have got to say it. It's not nice. But they're mean. But they have heart. But they go into these towns, in Long Island. I grew up in Long Island, right next to Long Island. And these are towns that I know all my life. They're being liberated, like a foreign power has taken over the towns. Our ICE goes in there. They grab 'em by the neck. They throw 'em in the paddy wagon. We get 'em the hell out of our country. And the Democrats are constantly complaining that we're too rough on ICE. Do you believe it? Do you see what they do? Bing, bing. Right? You see what they're doing? No, but do you see what they're doing? They don't need guns. They like knives, because knives are much more painful. They cut people up in small pieces. Beautiful young women, walking home from school. And the Democrats complain that we're treating them too rough. We're getting them the hell out, as I said, by the thousands. Right? Just days ago, a brave border agent was shot multiple times while protecting our border. Every day, border agents are keeping drugs, crime, and gangs from entering our country. We're going to get that wall built. We've already started it. $1.6 billion. We're getting the wall built. Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! It's already begun, and it's beautiful. And I'll tell you what, they may not want to talk about it in California, but those people in San Diego are very happy with Donald Trump. I'm building that wall, and they are so happy. They are so happy. In recent days, we've heard of shameless attacks on these courageous law enforcement officers. Extremist Democrat politicians have called for the complete elimination of ICE. ""We don't want ICE anymore."" You know what would happen to parts of our country? It would be overrun with the worst criminal elements you have ever seen. Left-wing activists are trying to block ICE officers from doing their jobs, and publicly posting their home addresses, putting these incredible people and their families in harm's way.  These radical Democrat protesters, they really want anarchy. But the only response they will find from our government is very strong law and order. We will not tolerate attacks on our law enforcement. We will protect our law enforcement, like they protect us. We will always stand proudly with our brave heroes of ICE, the Border Patrol, the sheriffs, the police, yes, the firemen. The foremen sometimes are under attack, if you can believe it. The firemen. These are great people. And we have their backs. Thanks to Republican leadership, America is winning again, and America is being respected again all over the world. We're respected again. All over the world, we're respected again. You know, all those red hats and the white hats, Make America Great Again. Right? Make America Great Again. And that's what we're doing. And what are we going -- what are we going to say in two and a half years for the next campaign? It's called Keep America Great, exclamation point. Exclamation point. Keep America Great! We gained $7 trillion in value, trillion with a ""t"". Trillion. I have wealthy friends, like Harold Hamm. They don't even know what a trillion represents. I say, ""Harold, how many billion are in a trillion?"" And I'm not sure that Harold could answer that. But I'll tell you what. We've gained tremendous worth, economic worth, and other worth, more important worth. We're respected again, we're putting America first, we're making great trade deals. $7 trillion. Think of what that it. And people don't realize this. And we're going to get along with China. And we're going to get along with the European Union, which has barriers from our farmers and our people, selling product into the European Union. Last year, with the European Union, and we love the European Union. We love the countries of the European Union. But the European Union, of course, was set up to take advantage of the United States, to attack our piggy bank, right? And you know what, we can't let that happen. Last year, with the European Union, we lost $151 billion on trade. We had a trade deficit of $151 billion, because they send the Mercedes in. They send the BMWs in. They send their products in. We send things to them, they say, ""No, thank you. We don't take your product."" That's not the way it works. And for all those free traders out there, that's not free trade. That's stupid trade.  That's stupid trade. So -- so, I said to them, as the great Harold Hamm would say, because to him it's a natural thing, to some of the people in here it's a nat -- because I know some of the people. They're great business people. I said to the, very simply, ""Look. If you treat us that way, and if you don't take down your barriers"" -- they call them trade -- you know what they call them. Non-monetary barriers. They're barriers. Just like charging a big tariff, they charge us many times tariff. If we send them a car which they don't want, and they practically don't take, but on the assumption it got through, they charge us many, many times what we charge them. And I said, ""Look. If you're not going to treat us fairly, if you're not going to treat our workers, our companies, our farmers fairly, if you're not going to take our farm products like we take your farm products, then we're going to tax all of those beautiful Mercedes Benzes that are coming in, and we're going to tax BMWs that are coming in..."" ... and we're already taxing, through tariffs, their steel and their aluminum. And, by the way, do you see what's happening with our steel industry in the last four months? It's booming again, folks. It's booming. United States Steel is opening up six plants through expansion and new. I was in South Carolina the other night where, by the way, a great candidate won very easily. You know, our track record is extraordinarily good, right? That's why I'm here, for Kevin, that's why. That's why I'm here. But they just announced the day I get there, they have a steel company called Georgetown. It's been closed for four years. They announced the day before I got to South Carolina that Georgetown Steel is reopening and hiring 600 people. Not so complicated. We put tariffs on solar panels because China was flooding the market and it wasn't good stuff. We had 32 plants. Two were open and they were barely breathing. They were mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. We put a 30 percent tax on solar panels coming into the United States. Now, those two plants are doing great. And they're talking about opening at least 10, 11, or 12, and they'll probably have them all open very soon. And they're going to make high quality panels. And a lot of jobs. Same thing with washing machines. Sounds sort of tacky. Washing machines. Big business. They were dumping, different countries -- I don't even want to tell you this country because I actually like this country, but, you know, they all -- sometimes our worst enemies are our so-called friends or allies, right? But they were dumping washing machines. We put a big tariff on, 30 percent. We're now making washing machines back in our country. But what else are we doing? Think of it. Just think, because you never hear this from the fake news.  What else are we doing? No, what else? We're creating jobs, number one. And we're taking in billions and billions of dollars into our coffers. You know, there was a time -- there was a time when we had tariffs, because you had presidents like President McKinley and Roosevelt and others. Roosevelt, one, who liked the idea of foreign countries, when they come in and want to take our wealth, they have to pay for it. They don't take it. On top of everything else, so they take our wealth, and we even protect them with our military. We protect everybody. So, we get it every which way. So, we want to just tell those people, number one, we created a lot of jobs. Number two, what's happening is we're taking in billions and billions -- look at the steel. We have a 25 percent tariff. We're taking in billions of dollars, creating jobs, and -- and, you know what? Even if it wasn't perfect, we need a steel industry. We were going to have no steel plants. If something ever happened -- if something ever happened, you know what I'm talking about, and we needed steel to make that something, we wouldn't be able to make steel. We need -- you know, there are some industries, steel and aluminum, we have got to have it. So, we have jobs, we have a vibrant industry, in a short -- the head of United States Steel called me the other day. And he said, ""Mr. President, I'd like to thank you. I have never seen anything like it. We haven't opened up a new plant in 32 years. And now we're opening up seven of them. ""Six of them extensions. ""We're going to build a new one."" And that's just one company. The Heritage Foundation reported that in just the first 500 days of our presidency -- not my presidency. It's our presidency, let's face it. It's not my presidency. You're the one that did it. You're the one that did it. Although I've been a good student. I told John, and I told the whole group. We had a whole group of politicians before. And, you know, some of them have been congressmen, like, for 25, 30 years. And they're asking me questions about politics. I said, ""I've only been doing this for two and half years. Don't ask me a question like that.""  But we've been good students, haven't we, altogether? Haven't we been good students? But the Heritage Foundation came out with a report, and this was as of two months ago. We've already implemented 64 percent of our top agenda items. And that's at a much faster pace than even Ronald Reagan. That's pretty good, right? And you don't hear this from the fake news. We've created 3.4 million new jobs since election day, 3.4. Unemployment -- think of this one. Unemployment claims are at a 45-year low, and it's going to 63, I believe, probably, next month. African-American unemployment is at its lowest level in the history of our country. Hispanic-American unemployment also is at the lowest point in the history of our country. Unemployment among women, women... remember, we were going to do so poorly with women. Look at all the women here tonight. Women for Trump. They never take those cameras off my face. Look at all the women. Remember we were going to do so poorly with women. We did great with the women. If -- I wouldn't be standing... My wife told me, she said, ""You're going to do great with the women."" It's hard to believe it, though, with the kind of press we get. Do you agree? But, you know what? They are so smart. And when they hear those numbers, they're happy. And when you hear the numbers -- I used to go into arenas, and I'd read the horrible statistics on crime and education, and how badly people are being treated in Hispanic communities, in African-American communities. And you remember, I'd go and I'd say, ""You've been voting for Democrats for 100 years. You have these horrible""-- look at my friends, right there. Great guys. My friends. Thank you. You've had these horrible, horrible statistics for years on crime and the educational abuse, and all of the things. And I went in, and I'm reading them, point after point, and I'm seeing, and I'm -- I looked out at the audience. For 100 years they were with Democrats. The Democrats felt they had automatic votes. And I said to them, ""What the hell do you have to lose? Vote for me. What do you have to lose? ""What do you have to lose?"" And I came off the stage. I'll never forget it. The first time I just said it. I just said it. I didn't care. I -- honestly, I want to say what's right. I don't care. I came off the stage and my political people said, ""Sir, that's a horrible thing."" What's a horrible thing? ""When you say, 'what the hell do you have to lose?' That's a horrible thing."" I said, ""But it's true. What the hell do you have to lose?"" And now, I just said African-American unemployment is at the lowest level in history. Very, very good. Thank you, . Thank you. Thank you, . Thank you very much. Thank you. So, we keep going, and we keep striving. And when it's all over, nobody's done the job that we've all done. Wages are rising. You know, for those of you that were with the campaign, which I think was probably about 130 percent of you... ... you would hear me talking about wages. Where a person would have a job 21 years ago, 19 years ago from two years, where we were doing the campaign. And they made more money 19 years ago, relatively speaking, by far, than they made two years ago. And, actually, one year ago. Their wages were going along, and they had one job. And now they'd have two and three jobs. They'd be working much harder and making much less money. And now, for the first time in 22 years, wages are rising again. And even more importantly than that is, you have a choice of jobs. It's like the V.A. We approved choice. They've been trying to do it for 45 years. Choice. You have choice in a job. But the vets -- and you have great vets in North Dakota. Vets, vets, vets. So, remember, I used to say about the vets -- and I wasn't a great student of the vets, but I'd read where the vets would be online for 13 days, 18 days, three weeks, seven days. And they'd start off, and they wouldn't be in bad shape. And sometimes it would take so long before seeing a doctor that they would be terminally ill. Things that could have been taken care of. And I said, without knowing anything -- I thought it was the most brilliant policy I've ever heard. I said, ""Why don't they just go to a doctor, local, that's looking for the business, that would be a very good doctor. We'll specify certain great doctors. Go to a doctor. Be taken care of. And we will pay the bill, and it will be much less expensive, and you'll be all set, right?"" Right? And I thought that was so brilliant. I said, ""Oh, I am so smart. I am the smartest person."" My uncle was a great professor at MIT for 40 years. Can you believe? Forty years. I said, ""But I'm smarter than him. I'm smarter than anybody."" And you know what? I'll tell you. I came in, and I said that to a group of people that are professionals and have been working with the vets for a long time. They said, ""Yeah, we know about that. We've been trying to get it for 30 years. We couldn't get it approved."" So, I was so disappointed, because I thought it was my idea. But I'll tell you what I was good at.  I was good at getting it done. We got it done. I signed it. That's what I was good at. I got it done. We got it done. They'd been trying to get it done for 40 years. I was so disappointed. I thought it was my idea. That's the only problem. I thought it was my idea. And, you know, we have another thing. Accountability with the vets. The V.A. -- there was no accountability. You'd have people that were protected, whether it was civil service unions, who cares. They were protected. You couldn't fire them. They could be sadists, and we had sadists. Sick people. We had people that would steal and rob. We had a lot of bad people. We had people that didn't work hard. And there was no accountability. For 40 years they tried to get the V.A. Accountability Act passed. I got it passed. And now, you look at the guy that did it, and you say, ""Jim Smith, you've done a hell of a lousy job. You're late, and you don't treat our vets right. Jim, I'm sorry, you're fired. Get out of here."" Right? Right? ""Jim, you're fired."" USA! USA! USA! So, those two things for the -- I just approved them. The accountability was a couple of months ago. And John helped so much. I'll tell you. John helped so much. He was a leader. Thank you. He was a leader on both. And everybody said you couldn't get accountability done. I said, ""Why?"" Too much power, too many unions, too many people that just don't want it done. You had people in Arizona that robbed $300,000 and they could -- they agreed. Everybody agreed. They robbed the money. They couldn't fire the people. So now you have -- accountability is done. And I think even more important -- I'm not sure. But even more important, V.A. choice. So now you go see a doctor when you have to wait on line. OK? Optimism among America's great manufacturers has hit 95 percent, the highest number by far in the history of the survey, which is a very old survey. We have eliminated record numbers of job-killing regulations. I think maybe as important as the tax cuts are the regulations. Our country was choking. And let me tell you, if our opponent, our wonderful opponent... Lock her up! ... when is she going to get over it? When does she get over it? Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Oy, when do they get over it? But, you know, it is pretty amazing. Point after point, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty. Oh, she's OK. And then they go after us for a Russian hoax. It's a witch hunt hoax. It's -- isn't it incredible, when you talk about a double standard? When you talk about a double standard. And nobody even looks at her. Nobody even looks, I don't think, unless we're going to be surprised some day. Well, we'll see how that works out. But I'll tell you what. What's happened is somewhat of a miracle because we weren't expected to win. But every time I'd go out, we'd have crowds like this. We went to Michigan. We went to Wisconsin. We went to places that haven't been done. I think Wisconsin was 1952. Dwight Eisenhower. And we won Wisconsin. And Wisconsin, I went there, and I said, ""I think we're going to win this state."" And people said to me, ""Oh, sir. It won't happen."" I said, ""Why? Look at the crowds we're getting. Look at the people. Look at the signs outside of the house. Look at the signs."" I heard, and maybe it's not so, that Bill Clinton, President Bill Clinton, went back, and he went through Michigan. And he said, ""You'd better get some people out to Michigan, because there's a Trump-Pence sign on every house. You'd better get people out."" And they said, ""Oh, no. Our statistics show that Michigan cannot be won by the Republicans."" Well, let me tell you what's happened. Car plants are moving into Michigan. Jobs are moving into Michigan. Michigan's very happy with your president. They should have listened to Bill Clinton. They should have listened. And we just had our highest poll numbers. And I watch these fakers back there, and they'll be talking.  Well, you saw the polls that come out -- I don't know if this is true. You know, a year and a half ago, they said "
"Hello, everyone. Hi. Hi, everybody. Hello, everybody. It was a little rocky up in the sky tonight, I have to say. They said, ""Sir, would you mind going back? Would you mind if we didn't stop?"" I said, ""There's no way. We cannot stop,"" right? No, we're not going to do that. We're not going to do that for a man named Henry McMaster. We're not going to do that. I wouldn't have the courage to call Henry. Henry, I said I was coming, but I'm only kidding. It's raining out real bad and we're not showing up. I wouldn't do it to you, so thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. And also it is the Air Force One. I said let's just go through and it does. Listen, it is great, it is great to be with you. It's a very special state. I love this state with so many incredible, hardworking American patriots at -- American patriots. Before we begin, let's all take a moment to send our love to Katie Arrington, who was badly hurt in a terrible car accident. And somebody going the wrong way and Katie really badly hurt along with a friend of hers and somebody else killed frankly in the other car. And Katie is a very special person. She was out there right from the beginning. And here's the good news, she's going to be 100 percent. That's the good news. She's going to be 100 percent. So, Katie, we're all pulling for you and we're praying for your very swift recovery. She's going to be back very soon. And she was with us, boy, she was out there campaigning against a guy I've never liked too much. Never liked him too much. I wasn't a big fan. The Tallahassee Trail must be a beautiful place. Unfortunately, he didn't go there. So I want to thank all of our South Carolina GOP leaders in attendance. We have a man who has become a friend of mine. It's shocking, isn't it? It's shocking. We went at it and he said, ""I'll defeat him in South Carolina."" I said, ""I don't think so. I don't think so."" But I'll tell you what, he has become a friend and he's a good man, Lindsey Graham. Lindsey. That's pretty good I think, Lindsey. That's pretty good. No, he's been great. Congressman Joe Wilson and Tom Rice. South Carolina attorney general, a very close personal relationship to Joe, Alan Wilson. Good job, Alan. He's looking good. South Carolina Secretary of State Mark Hammond. Thank you, Mark. And candidate for lieutenant governor Pamela Evette. Pamela. Thanks, Pamela. And finally the person we are all here for today, a man who truly was with me from the beginning. There was no doubt about it. He was there right from the beginning. We won the state of South Carolina by a lot both in the primaries, both in the primaries and in the general election. We won it. We had to run the whole east coast and we got South Carolina and we got North Carolina. We love North Carolina. We got Pennsylvania and we got Florida. We started off that night. Donald Trump has won the State of Florida, right? And they go, whoa, whoa, they just lost Florida. And you know what they said? Don't worry about it, North Carolina -- they said North Carolina is our firewall. South Carolina we have no chance, but North Carolina. And so we won South Carolina, thank you very much. And the firewall wasn't much of a firewall in North Carolina. So I want to thank the incredible people of South Carolina for everything you've done. And right from day one when I came down here, Henry McMaster, I said, ""So why are you with me?"" He said, ""Because I like what you're saying. I agree. We need strong borders."" We're talking about it now and we have. So he said we need strong borders, we have to stop crime, we want lower taxes, we love our military, we love our vets and we love our second amendment. Other than that, I don't know what he said. I don't know what else he told me, but you know what, that was enough, right? And he was sort of this like handsome guy with a wonderful wife, Peggy. Where's Peggy? So Henry was for me from the beginning. There was nobody else. It wasn't like I supported Trump. Somebody says I supported Donald Trump very early, yes, after seven other people. After the defeat of nine people, they were with me and they never let you forget it. But Henry was there at the beginning. He's a fighter, he's tough, he's strong and he's a gentleman. He's a gentleman. The thing with Henry because I really got to know him, I tell you what, he was up early in the morning, he left late at night. I said, ""You really are a fighter."" The beautiful thing with Henry is you don't even know it. He does it in a very elegant manner, but he is a fighter. He's been here with us. And, Henry, I'd like to ask you just to come on up. This has been an interesting voyage over here. I have never taken a longer trip. I have never taken a longer trip ever to South Carolina. Come here, Henry. Thank you, Mr. President. South Carolina loves Donald Trump. You all, we were at the airport waiting and we were watching these forces of nature and there was lightening and there was the thunder and the storm and the rain. And then it cleared and Air Force One landed and the real force of nature got off the plane and stepped into South Carolina. Donald Trump has kept every promise that he's made. We love him. We follow him. He's going to make America great again. We will help him do it. We're going to do it right in South Carolina. Thank you so much. Thank you, Henry. Now, you know we have a lot of fake news back there, these fakers. And you know that if a horrible thing happened and we weren't lucky enough to have Henry win, you know they won't talk about it, they will say Donald Trump suffered a major, major defeat in the great state of South Carolina. It was a humiliating defeat for Donald Trump. So please get your asses out tomorrow and vote. You got to get out there and vote. And, honestly, not for that reason, you want to get out. He's a great man. He's a wonderful person. He loves the people of South Carolina. He loves the people of our country. You got a good man or I wouldn't be here, believe me, I wouldn't be here. You know, the last time I endorsed somebody, as you know, was Katie and I was in Singapore. There's like this massive difference in time. Who knows? I said, ""Let me ask you, we have a situation that's very interesting. I'm turning on the television, I see the race and I say, what time is it right now in South Carolina?"" They said, ""Sir, it's almost four o'clock."" I said, ""Oh, I've got to endorse Katie."" I said, ""How many hours are left?"" They said like three and a half. I said, ""Maybe I shouldn't do it because I won't have enough."" And what happened, I did. I said I don't care. I can't stand that guy. I don't care. I don't care. And I like her. She was another one right from the beginning. She didn't talk about other people, right? So I said OK. So we had like three hours, three and a half hours left something. I'm just lifting off from Singapore far away. It was a 22-hour flight. Do you think that's fun? That's not even fun in Air Force One, OK? ""When are we landing?"" ""Sir, we're almost there, seven more hours."" Oh, good. When they tell you you're almost there, you only have seven hours left. And, by the way, we had a great success, North Korea. Chairman Kim, great, great success. We're not looking up in the air. Any rockets up there? Any rockets? Japan is very happy, they haven't had a rocket shut over them in seven months. There's been no rocket tests. There's been no nuclear tests. There's been no ballistic missiles. They've blown up their site. Today, it got no coverage because fake news doesn't cover. But today, look at all those fake newsers back there. Look at them. That's a lot. That's a lot of people. That's a lot of people. And you want to see a lot of people, go outside, this is a gymnasium. I said, ""Henry, I don't work gymnasiums anymore."" He said, ""Please."" I said, ""OK, I'll be there."" Go outside and take a look outside. You won't believe what's going on out there. So you people understand real estate well. But we have a call and I had numerous calls with Prime Minister Abe, so happy for the people of Japan. They're happy for the people of China. They're happy for the people especially of South Korea and were happy. And you know what, we did something that was wonderful and the world is soon going to be and right now it is already, we have good chemistry, but the world is going to be a much safer place. And North Korea is going to be a much better place, so it was really something, really something. And they've agreed to denuclearization. They've agreed to no more testing, no more of this. They agreed. By the way, we got our hostages back. We got our hostages. I got them back even before we left. We're getting the remains of our great heroes back. And when I first made the announcement that we're getting together, this was five, six months ago, it was in the Oval Office. I'll never forget it and these guys were saying unbelievable, unbelievable. Do you believe this? South Korea, remember, they came over from South Korea, they stopped, North Korea, South Korea, the Olympics, and it started with the Olympics which Chairman Kim said, ""We want to go to the Olympics."" I said, ""Yes, that's nice."" That's a big difference from the dialogue we were having, right? Slight, slight. They want to go to the Olympics. And the Olympics would have been a massive failure and it turned out to be a massive success. And President Moon of South Korea gives us the credit. They were not selling. People did not want to be nuked in stadium as they watched the opening ceremonies. They don't want to be watching the opening ceremonies and at the same time looking at up the skies, how long will this last? They were not exactly selling tickets, the minute that happened and he said, ""We'd like to be part of the Olympics"" out of nowhere. The minute that happened, the Olympics became a fantastic success. It was a great Olympics. It was a great Olympics. And we now have a good chemistry. We have a good chemistry. I think it's going to work out. And it's a period of time, takes a while, takes a long time, not easy, not easy. They've been doing this for many, many decades and not that easy, but they took down signs, anti-United States sign, all over North Korea down. They took them down, anti-U.S. signs like I put up anti-media signs all over the place. You're worse than I am. No, we just want honesty. We want a little fairness. We want a little fairness, right? We want that. We don't get very much of it. But it's sort of interesting, so we make the deal. And we signed a piece of paper and it was a beautiful piece of paper, it said we will denuke, we will this, we will that, we will get the remains back, we will do all of these things, a lot of things. We will not test, we will abandon our -- they have an engine site for, these are not engines like for your car. These are engines for ballistic missiles. They got to rip that down. So point after point after, but it starts off first sentence,, we will denuclearize North Korea, OK. So you know what the fake news said? Donald Trump has suffered a humiliating defeat because I agreed to meet, I said I agreed to meet. In other words, because I agreed to meet they couldn't think of anything else. So I will say this, at the beginning they couldn't believe it was happening. Two days later, they were saying Hillary Clinton could have done that. I don't think so. I don't think so. Did you ever see anybody so protected in your life? Did you ever see that? Point after point after point, and I did nothing and it just never ends, never ends. No collusion, no nothing. But you go point and you know what after the election I said, OK, let's go, come on, who cares? Let's go. We got to make America great again. And then she writes a book and she does the tour, and how many reasons that she give for losing the election, like every week there was a different reason, right? She blamed everybody for losing the election except for one person, herself. And the funny thing is so, look, Lindsey was just telling me every other Republican it would have been very tough. They all lost. I won. I won when I won South Carolina, but to win all up and down the east coast, to win Wisconsin, which hasn't been won in many years, like 1972 I think, that's a long time, to win Michigan, which hasn't been won in a long time, and they give her, they say she was a bad candidate, I mean, honestly she was a tough candidate. She wasn't a bad candidate, but they refused to say that I was a good candidate. They refused. It's very interesting, I just pick this out. Sometimes you have to toot your own horn because nobody else is going to do it. Certainly, they're not going to do it. No, no, certainly they're not. Certainly, they're not going to do it so sometimes you have to do it, right? That's why when the polls are good, you remember during the campaign, when the polls were good I would always talk about it. When they weren't so good, I wouldn't mention it, right? I didn't talk polls. But they were good, for a lot of time they were good. And, by the way, Georgetown Steel just opened their plant yesterday. They're spending a lot of money after many years of being closed, Georgetown Steel in South Carolina. So here's a story that just came out. David Lynch, the great filmmaker, David Lynch, he puts down headline, ""Trump could go down..."" He's a Hollywood guy. The reason I do this is you don't hear this, and plenty of them voted for me. Plenty of them voted for me. David Lynch, could go down as one of the greatest presidents in history, of course there goes his career, right, in Hollywood. Veteran filmmaker, David Lynch, believes President Donald Trump could be remembered as one of the greatest presidents in American history because of the way he has shaken up the political establishment because of what I've done. However, he now appears to believe because he was a Democrat or is a Democrat or something, he actually voted for Obama. And here it says he voted for Bernie Sanders, OK, but he now says, however, he now appears to believe that Trump may have been the right choice after all. He goes on to say that Trump could go down as one the greatest presidents in history because he has disrupted this thing so much. No one has been able to counter this guy in an intelligent way. And, by the way, they call them the elites, right, the elites. You know what you are? You're the super elites. I'm changing titles. I'm changing. I'm changing. No, no. Look, everybody here makes money, works hard, pays taxes, does a great job. You're smarter, you're better, you're more loyal. We have the greatest face in the history of politics. They interviewed 10 women on one of the opposing networks, the enemy, the enemy of the people I call them. And they said to these women, these were about 10 really great women, these are none political women that had Trump here, Trump there, wearing Trump hats. Badges -- so this announcer said, ""What can he do?"" And you've heard me say this because this happens a lot. ""What can he do where you won't be with him? What can he do when you're going to drop Donald Trump?"" And one of these women stood out, perhaps the leader, perhaps not, but she came forward and she said, ""There's absolutely nothing he can do."" Can you believe that? There is nothing he can do. And she said he has done a great job so we're working on it. But there's David Lynch, enjoy it because his career is Hollywood is officially over. Did you see Jimmy Fallon? Jimmy Fallon. The guy screws up my hair. He's going back and forth. He was so disappointed to find out it was real. He couldn't believe it. Well, that's one of the great things I got. Everybody used to say my hair is phony, it's not my hair, I'm wearing a hair piece. Anybody here wearing a hair piece now? But the one thing, they never say that anymore because I've been caught in rainstorms. I've been caught in winds that are like 60 miles an hour getting off. If it's not your hair, don't run for office, folks. Don't run. Do not run for office because the gig would be up. So Jimmy Fallon apologized. He apologized for humanizing me, the poor guy because now he's going to lose all of us. Now, he's going to lose all of us. If somebody would open a talk show at night because the guy on CBS is -- what a low life, what a low life. I mean, honestly, are these people funny? And I can laugh at myself and frankly if I couldn't I be in big trouble. But there's no talent, they're not talented people. Johnny Carson was talented. Some of these guys, no, seriously. I mean, this guy on CBS, has no talent. Jimmy Kimmel would meet me before the election. I'm telling you a true story. I don't even think he'd deny it. No talent, but I go to his studio to do a shot, to a do a thing, he would stand outside on the sidewalk waiting for me. ""Oh, here he comes, Donald Trump, oh."" He opens my door. I said does he do this to everybody, to his people? He does it for nobody. Now, who knows? Maybe that was just -- but he's waited for me two or three times I did a show before this. Now, he wouldn't do his show. That guy's terrible. But I do a show and he's standing out on Hollywood, whatever, Boulevard and he's standing there opening up the door like, ""Hello."" I wasn't president. I was just like a guy, right? A guy with potential, right? Good potential. And he's there, here he is. ""Oh, sorry, how are you? Hi. So thank you so much for doing..."" And I always got higher ratings than other people so that was always good. But Jimmy Fallon calls me up and he's like a nice guy. He's lost. He looks like a lost soul, right? He gets out there, ""Hey, hey, hi, oh."" But you know what, he's a nice guy. I agreed to do a show and because I guess I was running at that time, I think I was, it was he got tremendous ratings on that show, killed everybody, right? He should be thankful. He couldn't be upset and angry, when you apologize because you got somebody else that didn't go on the other shows. So I go on the show, I agree, do whatever you want with my hair, go ahead, let's go, and that was it. He woke up like what is it, a year and a half, two years later he's now apologizing because he humanized me and he really hurt himself. So I said, ""Jimmy, you called me up after the show and you said thank you for the incredible -- you called them monster ratings, they were very big ratings."" I said, ""Thank you, Jimmy, that's very nice."" I said, ""Don't hurt yourself by apologizing."" So I said to him today on social media, I said, ""Jimmy, be a man. Just relax. Just relax."" It's incredible. But if somebody had said to these guys that CBS, NBC, I made a fortune for NBC on The Apprentice, they treat me horribly. I think they're worse actually than CNN. I think NBC... And they wanted to renew my contract. They wanted to renew my contract and they were doing everything. They had the top man at Comcast came up to see me in my office with a whole group of people, please, please renew your contract for The Apprentice. I said that's what I knew I was going to run so I turned it down. You know it's a primetime show doing well, 14 seasons, did great. Hey, Arnold Schwarzenegger, big movie star, took my place, it bombed in about two shows it was over. It actually bombed in one show. It was so bad they didn't believe it so they let it go a little bit longer. And the one who knew it was my wife, my wife. She said, you know -- she's very smart. She said, ""You know there's nobody that can take your place, don't you?"" I said, ""Thank you, darling. I appreciate it."" How smart is that? Now, I don't know if she believes it, but she said there is nobody that can take your place. He will not be successful. I said he's doing no shows. ""He will not be successful. There is nobody, darling, that can take your place."" How smart is she? How smart, right? How smart. And she has got a great style. We greeted today the king of Jordan and the queen of Jordan and it was like a picture. I watched the three of them, the queen, the king and the first lady, and I stood back and I watched. I didn't want to destroy that picture. And I will tell you, she has done a tremendous job as first lady. And you know, she had an operation a few a weeks ago, kidney operation, and she's going to be great. She's fine. But they had all kinds of projections. They said she got a facelift. No. I would let you know. They couldn't hide that one for long, right? They said she left me and moved to Virginia. They said she left me and, all right, moved to New York. So she moved to Virginia, she moved to New York. The only thing they wouldn't say is what happened and that's OK. And she's private, she doesn't want to talk about things, right? But really unfair stuff, but you know what, we've never done better than we're doing now. We've never had a time like we're having. We've never had. We've never had higher polls than we have now. Even Gallup, Gallup, who treats me horribly, polls are fake news also. What they do is called suppression. They put out these horrible polls and then they hope that everyone's going to say, ""Hey, look, I like Trump, but he's got no chance of winning."" Suppression, it should be illegal actually. You want to check these pollsters, where they're coming from, they knew. We had one with ABC, I think it was ABC Washington Post just before the election, like a week before we're down 12. Now, if you're down 12, OK, if you're down 12 it's over if the polls are real. But I said it can't be real, we just went to Michigan, we had 30,000 people, we just went to other places. Excuse me, we went to South Carolina, but I didn't come here that often, you know why? Because we were leading by a lot. So, I said -- I said, if you don't mind -- I said, ""If you don't mind, do you mind if I don't come back here? I got to go to places like that we have it a little bit closer?"" And nobody said, ""Don't worry about it,"" they said, ""You stay out of here, Mr. President, almost to be, Mr. President."" But it really has been an incredible journey for all of us. We are the super elite, we are the super elite. It is true. We are and we're going to call ourselves that. I said the other day because as you saw in my last speech, it's in Minnesota, great place, unbelievable crowd. It seated nine thousand and they had 15,000 or 20,000 people outside couldn't get in, it was incredible, just like you have a lot of people outside, you just can't. If I ever come into an arena, and it's got empty seats, I think that's the end. I don't know I'll be able to take it, right? I don't know, Henry, what I'm going to do if that happens, huh? I don't think we'll be able to take it. Well, it's not going to happen. Because remember what I said, we're going to start winning again, we're winning, we're winning now. Like we haven't won before. Like we have not won before. We're winning with our military, our military is now being built up like you wouldn't believe. We're winning with our military, we're winning on trade, we're winning on trade. We're defending our borders, because if you don't have borders, you don't have a country, you don't have it. Oh, it's happening. That's happening. Oh, it's happening. It's not build that wall anymore, it's continue building that wall, because we're building it. We're building it, we're fixing it miles and miles, we've got $1.6 billion, we're fixing the wall, we're building wall in San Diego, it's incredible how nobody wants the wall until it's in their backyard, do you mind building us? They didn't like people walking across their front lawns in San Diego. So, we're building the wall, we're fixing the wall, we're spending a lot of money, and we're going for more, and we'll get it done. But Democrats, they want open borders, and they don't mind crime. Think of it. So last week they thought, ""Oh, they have a great issue,"" and, you know, I get credit, I don't know if it's true or not, but they're saying I have good political instincts, who does? In fact, some people have said, I have the greatest political instinct in 50 years. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. But I have my own feeling. And when I heard them talking about the children, first of all they were using pictures taken in 2014 when Barack Obama was president. I wasn't president. And what I learned is one thing, our facilities are cleaner, better kept, and better run, that's the one thing I learned, OK? I saw that. But what we have is two extremes. You know, I liked it, I said, ""Hey, this is fine for us."" The Democrats want to open borders, they want anybody they wanted including MS-13 pouring into the country. And the Democrats don't like ICE, these are great, brave, tough people. These people are much tougher than MS-13. They don't like Border Patrol, they don't like your police, they don't like anybody. The Democrats want to protect illegals coming into this country, some of whom are not good, some of whom cause lots of problems in the worst possible way, they want to protect illegals coming into the country, much more so than they want to protect you, and that's not where we're coming from, OK? So, I defined it today, the Democrats want open borders and they don't mind crime. We want very tight, very strict borders, and by the way, you saw a 70 year or low, with all the complaining I'm doing, we've done a very good job, and we have taken thousands, we have taken -- we got to get that wall built all the way across, and they don't want it, that's like a symbol. They're only good at one thing -- what's that term? Resist. It's the party of Maxine Waters, do you believe her? No, no. No, no. This has become the party of Maxine Waters and Nancy Pelosi, that's who it is. So they don't mind crime, they want open borders, we one really tough borders, and we want people to come in, we want people to come in through the legal process, what about the thousands of people? What about the thousands of people that have gone through this process, that are waiting on line to come into our country, and then we're going to let these people pour in? We have no idea who they are, and they came to me three days ago. Sir, we'd like you to sign this order. What is the order? We need five thousand judges on the border. I said, ""Judges?"" What other country has judges? I said, ""How many do we have now?"" They didn't even know. So we have thousands of judges and now we're going to have five thousand. Now, I've done a good job with judges, Judge Gorsuch, Supreme Court Justice Gorsuch. And we have many judges, we will set the record I believe for the most judges appointed, which is a very important thing, we're putting great talented people who see the Constitution the way it's written, they don't make up the Constitution. But they come up, and this was an order, this was -- sir, we need five thousand judges, I said, five thousand? So, we put a judge on like on the bench, federal, it takes us weeks to vet, it takes us a long time to get the judges, one -- we're talking about one person. And they want five thousand, I said, ""Where are you going to find five thousand people to be judges? How many do we have now?"" I don't know the number. They don't even know the number, even though they're in charge, OK? Nobody knows the number. We have thousands of judges already. So, if a person comes into our country, steps one foot, they take their name, they bring them to court, they then release them, they go into the country, you never see them again. It's the craziest thing I've ever seen. So, I said today, I said today, I don't want judges, I want ICE and Border Patrol Agents, that's what I want. I want it, that's all. And we want to tell people, I'm sorry, you're coming into the country illegally, we don't want you in the country, that's it, it's now over. You know that I heard a number today which is hard to believe, we have 700,000 people waiting to go on trial, 700, this isn't from Trump, it was a disaster for Bush, although we very much appreciated Laura Bush's lovely letter, it was a disaster for Bush, it was a disaster for Obama, in fact, the head of his homeland was on over the weekend, and he -- honestly, he was very honest about it. He said it was a tough thing, it was a tough time for them. But we're going to straighten it out. Hey look. I got a bad hand, I got the job, and trade deals were bad. I mean, how bad were trade deals? Trade deals were bad. North Korea, they thought they were going to war, you go to war with North Korea, you're going to lose anywhere from 30 to 50 million people. Seoul is a city with 28 million people, 28 million people. So, you go, and you go to war, you lose 30, 40, 50, who knows? Millions of people, and I'm not even talking about nuclear, they have thousands of cannons aimed right at Seoul. And I said, huh, I'm telling you before I got -- took over this office, there was a really good chance that we were going to war with North Korea, you could have lost millions, and millions of people. So, I got a bad hand with North Korea because that's should've been done years ago. I got a bad hand with all these horrible trade deals, NAFTA is a disaster, Mexico is going to make over one hundred billion dollars in the United States this year, Canada, you know, Canada, nice guy, nice guy, Prime Minister Justin, I said, ""Justin, what's your problem, Justin?"" So, Canada, ""Oh, Canada,"" I love their national anthem, ""Oh, Canada,"" I like ours better, however. So, you know, Canada is great, I love Canada, but -- and we had a wonderful understanding, you know that story, we hugged, we kissed, everybody was happy, I made some changes in this ridiculous thing that everybody agreed to sign, so it was meaningless, but I made some changes. I left everybody was happy, Prime Minister Abe said, ""President Trump was right, everybody was in love."" They took the picture with Merkel, but if they showed the picture of like two minutes later, I had a big smile, she had a big smile, we were friendly, everybody. I get onto Air Force One, and he doesn't understand that Air Force One has 22 televisions. So, I come on, they have televisions in closets, they have televisions in areas that no place has -- unlimited budget, Air Force One, huh? So I get onto the plane, and I see Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada saying, Canada will not be bullied by the United States, I said, ""So, what are we doing here?"" The fact is that Canada has a 275 percent tariff on dairy products, little thing called dairy products. Their lumber is a disaster with us, I say, why aren't we using our own lumber? Because now we're actually allowed to take lumber from our fields and regrow it, but take lumber from under our environmental system, in the old days you couldn't do that, we had to go to other countries, but we -- so lumber is a disaster, energy is a disaster, and, you know, I see Justin saying, ""We fought World War I together, fought World War II together,"" that's true, we love Canada. But Canada is charging almost 300 percent tariffs on dairy products and many other things, it's all working out great. It's all working out great. But I said, ""Look, if you want to do that, we're going to put a little tariff when your cars are coming in,"" you know, cars are the biggie. Cars are the biggie. European Union, we lost $151 billion last year with the European Union. Sounds nice, many of us originally came from somewhere in the European Union. I had two parents, European Union. So, it sounds wonderful, our country lost 151 billion. They send a Mercedes, they send BMW's, they send everything, we tax them practically nothing, we can't send our cars, and if we do, they charge many, many times the tax that we stupidly don't charge. So I told them, ""Here's what we're going to do, we're going to charge a tariff on steel, until such time as you straighten out your act and you let us have fair."" They don't... They don't let our farmers into the European Union, it's very hard. So we have farmers that want to sell, you don't hear these stories, this is why, with these people, they don't tell you these stories. The European Union has what they call trade barriers, the European Union doesn't allow our farmers to go and trade, it's very hard for them to go to trade. And if they do, it's very expensive, same like Canada. Essentially, when you're paying a 275 percent tax and now I'm understanding it's higher, but at 275, that's essentially a trade barrier, you can't trade. How can we trade? We can't pay that kind of a tax. So, I want the barriers taken down, I want our farmers to be able to trade, I want to be able to sell cars in there just like they sell cars in here. And it's all going to work out, it's all going to work out"
"Thank you, Michael. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. I want to thank Michael, he's done a great job. He is really -- he's really -- I look at some numbers before, they're looking awfully good and I give a lot of that attribution to Michael. He has been a wonderful leader in this great State that we love. I want to congratulate Senator Dean Heller on his victory and he's gonna do a tremendous job. He's going to be a continuation of a great senator. He's -- he's been with me all the way. Once we got elected. I mean, I must say, he's a little bit -- little bit shaky at the beginning, but that was when a lot of people running. But once we got in there, he's been rock solid and he's been great and he's going to do a job, and he cut your taxes and nobody fought harder to cut taxes than Dean Heller, I will tell you that. Your great Attorney General is here. Adam Laxalt. He's running against shady Steve. Well, you know, if you think of the names, right. If you think -- it's always good to, sort of, if you couldn't think of something like that. But -- but he's going to win this race so easily. I really believe, right? Where's Adam? Where's Adam? Where's Adam? Come on. Come on up here, fellas. Come on up here. Dean, come on up, Dean. Come on. Come on up. Right. Thank you. And a man that really was so fantastic and he's been like a supporter of mine for a long time. He is a very intense individual like that that's the bloodlines, you know, from this family. And boy, that father was good, he was tough. He was tough. There's only one difference, Danny's even tougher. Danny Tarkanian. Danny, come up. He's a great team player. Danny. He's a really great team player, and Dean, and myself, we really appreciate what he did, and he's going to go in there, and he's going to win in that 3rd congressional district. Right, Danny? Gonna be there for a long time. I also want to, obviously, welcome all of our Republican Party delegates. You've been here and working and striving, and look what happened. Look what happened, right. You really are -- you're the heart and soul of the party. And this is a great state. This is a state that is going to be with us and has always been with us, and we love -- and we love the people. I'm here a lot. We have a great development down the road. But now I don't think about that anymore, right. I don't think about it anymore. But I just wanted to go, because I don't think anybody's come close to doing this. You know, you read the fake news. It's fake and disgraceful, and they don't talk about it. I read a story in The New York Times recently about things that we do and they say we didn't do and it's just horrible I want to say some of the things -- because I don't believe any administration, any president has come even close to doing what we've done in the first 500 days. And I won't even mention North Korea in that 500 days. I wouldn't. But that was great -- I mean, we have a good chemistry together. Kim Jong Won, we have a great -- Chairman Kim, we have a great chemistry and we're well on our way. You know, we signed an agreement. It said, we will begin the immediate denuclearization, OK, of North Korea. It says that we already got back the hostages and I saw it today, ""Well, Obama got back hostages."" Yeah. He paid $1.8 billion to get them back, OK. They didn't say that. In the New York Times they don't say that. They said, ""But Obama got them back too."" Yeah. But he -- a little bit differently. They gave him a billion eight. In green. Can you believe this? In cash. How do you do that as president? How do you do that? But we also -- you know when I was campaigning, people would come to me and with tears in their eyes, and say, ""Would it be possible to get back the remains of our father? Would it be possible to get back the remains of family members that died in the Korean War?"" I said, ""I don't exactly have a great relationship over there."" This was before the election. I said, ""You know, that's not sounding like an easy one. But I'll tell you what, I'll try."" And as we're negotiating different points the other day in Singapore I asked Chairman Kim would it be possible to do that. The last thing I asked. They said, ""Do you mind, because I have many people that have written, and called, and spoken to me, would I be able to get the remains back of all those great heroes that we have from so many years ago."" And he said, ""I will do that."" And you probably read they've already done 200 people, which is so great. So great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, that's so nice. And -- and remember, just recently I got a call from the Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Abe, and Japan is so thankful there's no rockets flying over Japan. You know, they were flying right over Japan and they weren't so happy. And you know, the Japanese are great warriors, they're great warriors and that was not a good thing. And they're so happy that they don't have that. They were having rockets and they were testing rockets. You haven't had a rocket or tests in seven months, eight months, long time now. It used to be every week, would have for another nuclear test, the rocket test, they blown up their nuclear site, their testing site. They've gotten rid of in the process of getting rid of their engine site for ballistic missiles lot. We're just -- developing a very special kind of a situation where hopefully in the future, 'cause you look at locationally, you look at it from any standpoint. North Korea has tremendous potential. Chairman Kim sees that and a lot of tremendous things are going to happen. We were really helped by South Korea, President Moon. We were tremendously helped by Japan. We were really helped also by President Xi of China with the border. Now we have to work on our trade with China because it's been very tough on our country for very many years. Our presidents did nothing about it and we probably lost last year $500 billion in trade to China. Think of it. Five hundred billion. So we've started the process and I think that'll work out with China because we have a very good relationship with the president, with President Xi, is incredible. So I think that'll work out. We're working on NAFTA deal. NAFTA's been a disaster for us. You know, Mexico makes over $100 billion a year. It's hard to believe. It's -- you know, you say these numbers. Hundred billion dollar. Not trillion not 100 Billion, not million, fortunately, not trillion, very fortunately. But think of it. So a hundred billion dollars a year we lose on trade with Mexico, on top of that they have a tax. That tax at 17% that we don't have. So they make our cars, a lot of car companies went there and they send them back over the border, had virtually no tax, and we lost a tremendous amount. Now they make a big percentage of our cars. It's not fair. So we're renegotiating NAFTA and I think when it's finished it's going to be fair, it's going to be a fair deal. It's got to be fair, we can't do this any longer. We can't do it any longer. And Canada charges are 275% tariff on dairy products going into Canada. It's ridiculous. And then they act like, you know, it's like, you probably read over the last couple of weeks with the Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, he's a nice guy, but we can't have it, we can't have it. Two hundred and seventy-five percent tariff and we can't have it because basically that's a barrier. They say we don't want your product. They tell the farmers up in Wisconsin and all of the different places. We don't want your product. Two hundred seventy-five is like having a barrier, of which they do have barriers, and which many other countries have barriers. So we're working on Canada, we're working on Mexico, we're working on the European Union. We're working on China. And everybody now is coming back. Have you been seeing what's going on with our steel industry. We put steel tariffs on. U.S. Steel is now building six plants are expanding. The steel company today announced a 500-million-dollar plant, and that's first plant built in many, many years, it's a long time. The steel industry started. And we need steel in this country. We need steel including for national defense. We have to have steel. So a lot of things are happening. The trade stuff is coming along, just starting but it's going to happen because, you know, with the piggy bank that everybody likes to rob from, they like to steal from. And unfortunately -- and we have great allies, great friends. We protect them for a very small cost. If you look at NATO, we protect them for a tiny fraction of what it would cost, which is unfair also. But we won't even get into that, we're having a meeting in July we'll talk about it. But in so many ways our country has taken advantage of and we're settling it up and we're gonna all be friends, we could all be happy, but we have to do these things. So with the European Union we're losing last year $151 billion. Hundred and fifty-one billion. They don't want our farm products. They tax our cars very heavily and really don't want them. They really have a barrier, and yet we take in Mercedes we take and BMWs by the millions. And it's not fair, it's not fair and we charge them almost nothing. And it's not fair. So when they charge us that we have to say respectfully, ""I'm sorry, but you know, we're going to have to tax your cars if you're taxing everything else and you're not going to take our farmers products."" We make the greatest products in so many different ways and they don't want them. And that's OK. But then you're going to have to pay. You just can't come in and do that. We can't lose $151 billion with the European Union. We can't lose $100 billion with Mexico. So the trade deals are actually coming along. And honestly, they're talking, you know when they have the tariff like that put on they want to talk. They didn't talk to Bush, they didn't talk to Obama. President Obama, they said, ""We're not going to talk to you about trade. Why would we talk to you."" And they said, ""OK. Great. Let's leave it for Trump. Let's leave North Korea for Trump. Let's leave trade for Trump. Let's leave immigration for Trump. We'll leave it for Trump."" They left us a lot. But I'm actually having a good time. Thank you. I'm actually having a good time. We're doing our job. And on immigration, we have to be very strong. I mean, everybody sees but this the same site that Obama had, that Bush had. Same site, the same thing. In fact they said, "" Look at this site. Look at President Trump. Look at this picture."" Excuse me. It was 2014. It was President Obama. OK. Our people are actually doing a very good job handling a very difficult situation but this is a problem that should have been solved years ago. So we're working very hard. The fact is, we need more Republicans because the Democrats are obstructionists, they won't vote. They're total obstructionist. They don't want to vote. Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer, they just want -- they want to use the issue and I like the issue for election too. Our issue is strong borders, no crime. Their issue is, open borders, let MS-13 all over our country, that's what's going to happen if you listen to them. So we're being very, very tough at the border. In fact, until just recently, we had a 70-year low coming through. And by the way, we want people to come into our country, but we want them to come in for merit, through merit. We want a merit-based system, so they can help us. You know, we have tremendous numbers of companies coming in. We have a 3.8 unemployment number, which nobody thought was even possible. And we have a 3.8 -- We need people to come in, but they have to be people that love this country, can love our country and can really help us to Make America Great Again, which is what we're doing way ahead of schedule. So since Election Day, we've created -- and this is hard to believe because nobody in the news back there, fake news, if I would have said this during the campaign. We've created 3.4 million new jobs since Election Day. Three point four. If I would have said that during the campaign prior to the election without the numbers they would have said, ""You have to be kidding."" How about our GDP numbers? How about that? I mean, even worse. Unemploy... think of this, unemployment climbs are at a 44-year low as of last month. Unemployment for African-Americans is the lowest level in history. Remember I used to say at the rallies, What-do-you-have-to-lose method. What do you have to lose? Because they always went with -- African-Americans always voted for the most part for Democrats. And I'm reading tremendous crime, bad education, bad this bad that, not safe, everything better. There were like 10 different points. Income levels, homeownership levels, everything. And I said, ""Vote for me. What do you have to lose?"" Remember? And they were smart. We did very well. We did very well. Those numbers went up. Up plenty. And up enough so we won the election, and now we have the African-Ameri... Think of it. African-American unemployment, the lowest in the history of our country. Hispanic. Any Hispanics in the audience, perhaps. Hispanic unemployment, the lowest in the history of our country. Women unemployment, the lowest in 21 years,and shortly, it will be the lowest in the history of our country. But the lowest in 21 years. That's down to 3.6%. Nobody would believe the numbers. Over three million people recently got off food stamps because were doing so well. That's a big number. And after years of stagnation and even going down, people were making more money relatively speaking 20 years ago, than they would make two years ago. And after years of stagnation, wages are rising again and jobs are looking for people. Small-business optimism has reached an all time high. It's the highest it's ever been recorded. We've signed the biggest tax cut and reform in the history of our country. That's what they do. That was where Dean and -- And I'll tell you, Dean really helped and he was there fighting hard for us. You were fighting hard. That was not easy, was it, huh? That was not easy. But Dean Heller, we owe a lot. And I have to tell you, his opponent wants to raise taxes. She wants to raise taxes. Think of it. I mean, it's ridiculous. We should mention her name or should I not. I have a great nickname for her actually, but I'm not giving. No, we shouldn't do it. All right, I won't do it. Wacky Jacky has -- you don't want her. You don't want her as your senator. You don't want her as your senator. Now that name didn't come from me, that's a name that people have known because people that know her, that's what they call her, Wacky Jacky. That's what you want for your senator? She wants to raise taxes. And I think somebody said she's in Nevada right now campaigning with Pocahontas. Right? She's campaigning with Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to, affectionately of course, as Pocahontas. They wanted me to apologize. No. I did though. I did. I did apologize to Pocahontas. To the memory of Pocahontas, I apologize. No. Wacky Jacky is campaigning with Pocahontas, you believe this? In your state. They don't know how to say ""Nevada."" They don't know how to say it. She called it ""Nevada."" OK. So when you see that that's not the senator you want. You know, your senator has to deal with your president, and your president loves the state. But I'm not increasing taxes. You have a Democratic Party, truly a Democrat. I don't like the word democratic, because it's not a democratic. Do you ever noticed they way everyone calls it the Democratic Party. It's not demo -- It's called the Democrat Party. Really is. And it doesn't flow as easily, you know, it does when you speak it sounds nicer as the Democratic Party, but you know, we're talking about people that want tax increases, they want open borders. They've got to have open borders. They want people coming in. You look at MS-13. We take them out of this country by the thousands. They're flowing, we take them out by the thousands, and we have the toughest border you can have concerning the laws of the worst of the whole country. Our immigration laws are a laughingstock all over the world. We're the only people, people walk-in, they put a foot in. Please, would you like to register? Other countries they say, ""Get the hell out of here."" They do that, they have to do that. We say, you know ,they want to hire now 5,000 more judges, so that a person puts the toe in the land that we have to go to trial. This is crazy what we're doing. I don't want judges, I want Border Patrol, I want ICE. We don't want judges. And the problem is, and I've said it, you know, we have great people in the house, Republicans. We get the tax bill. We didn't get one vote from Democrats in terms of the Senate. And I guess, in terms of the house, we get a vote and we cut taxes massively, and these companies that are all moving back down. Chrysler is coming back. There are so many companies are coming back. That's why we do need jobs. That's why we do have to get them in there. But we need jobs because we have all the companies. We have so much happening. They're coming to Ohio, they're coming to your state. They're coming to Pennsylvania. They're coming all over. It's incredible to see what's going on, but we have to do it in the right way. We have to have strong borders. You cannot ever allow a statement. For instance, if I got up here today and said, ""We want everybody to come. We want to take care of everybody."" You will -- let me tell you what would happen if I said that. Now they'll put it on that, that well they won't do. And they'll say, ""Trump said we want everybody to come."" These are the most dishonest people, not all of them, but many of them. They are among the most dishonest people I know. But if we did that. Everybody come -- if we did that you would have -- you're right, the word is overrun. We will have millions and millions of people pouring through our country with all of the problems that would cause with crime and schools. You would have millions. All I have to do is say, ""Yes, we want to take care of everybody. We want everybody to come. Do what you want to do."" Even if they show a weakness, if they see any weakness, they will come by the millions. We have to have strong borders. We're going to have the wall. We're going to have the wall. We've already started it. We've already started it. You know we've started it in San Diego.  Now we're going to have the wall and we started it. We have $1.6 billion. We've started it, we're fixing it and we're building new and we're starting it. But -- and we'll build it for a lot less money than these people think. A lot less money. But we're getting the wall built and we're going now for our second portion. And it's brutal dealing with the Democrats. They want to do nothing. Just so you understand, your delegates, you know what's going on. Your political people, you love the world of politics. Sometimes you probably go home say, ""Why do I like it."" But -- but when you think about it, we're dealing with a group of people that don't want to approve anything. If I -- if I said, as an example, if we gave them everything they wanted, they would say, ""Don't approve it."" Because they think immigration -- being weak on the border, which is therefore allowing tremendous crime to come into our country. They think that that's a good issue for them. I don't think being weak on the border or being pathetically weak on the border. I don't think that's a good issue. I may be wrong. I think I got elected largely because we are strong on the border. I really believe. So we signed the tax bill. And the tax bill was the cut was great. But we also got Anwar, which is one of the great sites in the world for energy. And we got rid of the Obamacare disastrous individual mandate. Will you pay a fortune for the privilege of not paying for health insurance? This is one of the great disasters the individual mandate, gone. Has anybody realized that? Has anybody -- was that -- they use a way you pay a lot of money for the privilege of not paying. OK. And you get no health care. And we just opened with our great Labor Secretary, Department of Labor, Cooperative and Association healthcare. It's going to be -- many of the people in this room are going to be buying it. It's going to be low-cost phenomenal, much better than Obamacare. And we're doing more in another two weeks, different forms of healthcare, and Obamacare is now going up. Every time you see an increase that's Obamacare, and Obamacare is on its last legs, it's almost finished. Don't forget I had it finished. Did we have it? It was done. Repeal and replace Obamacare. It was done until early in the morning. A man walked in and he said, ""Thumbs down, thumbs down."" That was not good and nobody knew he was going to do that. He campaigned on repeal and replace. He campaigned for years. ""Repeal and replace. Repeal and replace."" Nobody talked to him. Nobody needs -- it was a done deal. And then he walked in. Thumbs down. All right. Because we've essentially gutted it anyway and we now have really good stuff coming. And just remember if you see your numbers go up for those that are remaining it's the Democrats fault. And by the way, immigration, it's the Democrats fault. We won't get one vote. I'm telling you, if we gave up every single thing they want, they will say, ""We don't want it. It's pure obstruction."" Remember their word, resist, resist is their word. You remember what our word is? Huh? Right. Lots of different words. But ours is like, approve, get it done. get it done. Their word is resist. They want to resist everything. They think that's going to help them get into office. I don't think so. Especially when it comes to raising taxes, when it comes to having weak borders and crime. And when it comes to bad healthcare. They have horrible healthcare. So that's what the story is. But Anwar, and we got rid of the individual mandate. Obamacare, you're going to look at it, i's almost now, a thing of the past. Should have happened a few months ago but we had a little surprise. We were given a little early morning surprise by one of our own. One of the biggest things we've done is the record number of -- we've really knocked out regulations. At a number that nobody can believe. We've taken out more regulations, more regulations than any president, in any one of their terms, for full terms. We've approve the Keystone and the Dakota Access Pipelines. We've ended the war on energy and we've ended the war on clean coal, one of our great assets. We've withdrawn from the job killing, an unbelievably expensive Paris climate accord. That was a beauty. That was a beauty. That was going to cost more money than anybody would have ever believed. We've signed landmark accountability legislation for the V.A., where you're accountable now if you do a bad job. We fire you. And two weeks ago we passed choice, V.A. choice, where rather than waiting in line for weeks, and weeks and dying. People went in there moderately to have a minor problem, they end up it takes so long, they end up terminal. Now they go see a doctor and we pay for the doctor. These are our great Veterans. It's called V.A. choice. They've been trying to get -- they've been trying to get accountability for 40 years. They've been trying to get V.A. choice from the beginning. And you know, before I knew much about the Veterans Administration, in terms of choice, I said, ""What are they used choice."" I thought it was my idea. I said, ""Oh, I'm so smart."" What a great idea. I went to the group. They said, ""Yes, sir. We've been trying to get that for 35 years."" So that's all right. But I knew how to get it. We got it now. They've been trying for 35 years. We secured a record $700 billion and then next year $716 billion to bring our military to the highest level it has ever been. We need it. We confirm more circuit court judges than any other new administration, and we will set the all time record with judges including our great new Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch. We withdrew from the horrible one-sided Iran deal, and that's gonna turn out to be very good. That was one of the great embarrassments, and we moved the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. We're renegotiating all of those trade deals that I told you about. We're working with China. We're working with all of those countries, where it's so one-sided, and all of that will work out 100% but we cannot be taken advantage of any longer as a country we're not doing it. We're getting rid of sanctuary cities. We're getting rid of unsafe places. We're protecting your Second Amendment after protect a -- 95% of American manufacturers just announced that this is in the history of the chart, which they think is 28 years old. They've been doing this for 28 years in history. It's the highest history of -- They love what's going on. Let me put it this way. They approve what we're doing. It's the highest approval rating that this country has ever had by the people that create jobs namely, the manufacturers. It just came out. And 100 utility companies have lowered their prices because of our business tax cuts and the savings to America and Americans are going to be over $3 billion. Think of that. For farmers and for small businesses. We have eliminated the estate tax, so you could leave your farm, your business to the people you love, and they won't have to go bust, borrowing money so they can pay the estate tax. And we have so many other things that we've done and so many other things that we're doing, we're very proud of it. We could not have done it without you. It's been an incredible journey for all of us. We started out saying we were going to do this and that. Nobody had any idea would be able to do so much so soon, and in a very short period of time. All those things have been done or they're very close to being done, but most of have been done. A lot of them have just great start. You know, you have to start. And I can tell you that on trade, you get to see things happen over the next -- over the coming months that are going to really shock you. Because for so many years we felt so badly, you know, our jobs have been taken our -- our companies have been just taken, like we're a bunch of babies. Let's take the company. Let's close up the car company. Let's fire everybody. Let's move the company to another country, and then we'll sell back cars right into America. We won't pay tax. Those days are gone. Those days are gone. So I just want -- this is a very special group and I know so many of you because we campaigned together, but I just want to thank everybody in the review. You've been my friends and you've really been loyal. You've been strong. I want to say to Adam, good luck. You got us a tough race, but he's a tough cookie. He's gonna get it done. Gonna get it done, because he knows how to get things done. I wanna say to Dean, look, he's done so well that I can't imagine anything bad happening but you have to always fight hard. You have to be a little bit like, you know, be careful. You never know. You just can't let Wacky Jacky do it. You can't. Remember, a vote for her is a vote for Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. Very simple. Just remember, a vote for her is a vote for taxes going way up. Your taxes that you've cut way down are going to go way up. They're gonna give you all sorts of false promises. Your taxes are going way up. There's no doubt. Nancy Pelosi was caught three weeks ago. Did you hear her? Where she was saying, -- forget about the crumbs, it's been used to much."" But it is -- it's a lot of money for people. Two thousand dollars, $3,000, more than that. But so I don't even talk about the crumbs. But three weeks ago she was talking about, she wants to raise everybody's taxes. OK. I don't think so. Somehow that doesn't play very well. But a vote for her is a vote for increased taxes. Weak, weak borders. It's really a vote for crime. It's a vote to get rid of police officers. It's a vote to get rid of ICE. They want to get rid of ice. You know how good ICE is? These are the toughest people. You know on Long Island we have towns where they have a lot of the MS-13. And the thing they respect is toughness. They respect like if you're the number one student in your class, they don't respect. They respect toughness. Our ICE people are so tough. They're much tougher than the MS-13 people, and they respect our ICE people. And these guys go in with the paddy wagons and they grab them, and they put them in, and they take them out, and we get them the hell out of our country, and we put them, in some cases, in jail. They're killing people and they don't kill them with guns. You know, you hear so much about guns. They kill them with knives because they cut them into little pieces because it's much more painful. They're taking beautiful young women off the street. You know the father and the mother, two of them, they had a daughter. Two daughters killed so violently by MS-13. Cut up. Cut up. Not shot, cut up, because it's more painful. These are sick evil people. I call them animals, then people said, ""Oh, that's a terrible thing to say."" No. They said that's a terrible thing. Nancy Pelosi said that's a terrible thing to say. She was defending MS-13. So a vote for Jacky is a vote for Nancy Pelosi. It's a vote for Schumer and it's a vote for all of the problems that they bring. And I don't think you want that. You have an outstanding man in Dean Heller. And I know and I've been on both sides of him and I want to tell you he's a tough cookie. He's a tough cookie. And we want him on our side. So I'm just going to -- I'll be back a lot but I'm just telling you I'm leaving now. They got me making like four speeches, do you believe this? You know, I said, ""Where do you want me to go?"" Well, sir, you're making a speech here, then there, then there, then you do a roundtable. I said, ""What's this all about?"" But I will be back a lot. It's an incredible state with incredible friends. I have a great friend of mine Mr. & Mrs. Phil Ruffin are here today. He's fantastic man. Fantastic businessman. One of the most successful businessmen in the country. But I'm going to go and I will be back a lot because we're going to be fighting really hard for Denny, for Adam, and for Dean and for others, and for others. And I just want to thank you for your incredible support. You have been there from the day I announced that I was going to run for president. You've been there. So I want to thank you. Thank you very much, Nevada. Thank you. Thank you very much. Nevada, we love you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll be back a lot."
"Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Duluth. Thank you very much. I am thrilled to be back in the great state of Minnesota --  -- with truly some of the most incredible people anywhere on Earth. You know that.  And you know, I hate to bring this up --  -- but we came this close to winning the state of Minnesota.  And in two and a half years, it's going to be really easy I think.  It's been many, many decades since a Republican did that, and I thought I was going to do it. I needed one more visit, one more speech. That's why never give up. Never, ever give up. One more speech.  No, we're very proud of Minnesota. Let me also say congratulations to the Bulldogs on winning the NCAA Championship hockey tournament. Wow, that's a big deal. Right in this arena. This is where they play, right? Boy, I hear they're a great team. And how many are going to the NHL? How many? Two? Three? That's a lot. They're going to do it. Great team. Thank you. Great team. The Bulldogs.  So we're honored to be joined tonight by many wonderful Republican leaders, including our incredible House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. Kevin, come up please. Please come. Where is he? Kevin.  He sends a lot of money this way, I want to tell you. I also want to thank and maybe just ask him to come up -- we have all night long, right? Do we have time? All night.  We're not going anywhere. Some great people. Congressman Sean Duffy.  Great champion. Come up, Sean. Come up. Great champion. You know, there -- you know, the whole thing going up the trees and down the trees. Number one in the world for four or five years. Come here.  With a great, great wife by the way. Very talented. Tom Emmer -- Congressman. Loves this state.  And a very popular man in the state of Minnesota, Jason Lewis.  I also want to thank Lieutenant Governor Michelle Fischbach for being here. She has been so great. Got a big race coming along. It's going to do great. Along with State Senator Karin Housley. Karin. Come on up here. Get them up here.  Where are you? Stay there. It's too much of a deal. Good luck, Karin. Good luck, Michelle. Thank you. Also, a friend of mine and a man who's been incredible and a great supporter, Minnesota Senate Majority Leader Paul Gazelka.  And Minnesota Republican Party Chair Jennifer Carnahan, who has been fantastic. Thank you.  Thank you. And finally, the person we're all here to support tonight, somebody who's very special -- by the way, loves ice hockey -- real ice hockey family. In fact, his brother, you know, the coach of the winning women's team in the Olympics. Not bad.  Great family. The next congressman from Minnesota's 8th Congressional District, the great Pete Stauber. Come on up.  I'll tell you, is this a pretty good sendoff for Pete? This is not bad, right?  Hey, Pete. Come here. Say a few words. He wasn't supposed to do this, but let's hear him. Right?  Come on. Come on. Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome to the city of Duluth and the great state of Minnesota.  And as you alluded to, the home of college hockey's National Champions, the University of Minnesota Duluth Bulldogs.  I'm Pete Stauber, and I'm running in Minnesota's 8th Congressional District because, like President Trump, I love this country.  And I love our Constitution.  Mr. President, before your election, you made a promise to visit Minnesota. And you promised more jobs, fewer regulations, and a better economy for everyone.  Now, jobs are up, unemployment numbers are at a historic low, small businesses and manufacturers are surging --  -- and optimism is at an all-time high.  My blue-collar, commonsense conservative message is resonating throughout the 8th District. Mr. President, these people support you.  And, Mr. President, these are the same people that are going to send me to Washington so together we can unleash the economic engine in Northern Minnesota.  On behalf of the Minnesotans here today, thank you for coming to our great state and for always putting America -- First!  -- for always putting America and the American worker first.  Thank you. God bless America.  So I didn't know he was going to do that, and then he takes out a speech and reads it. I said, ""That's pretty good.""  He is a great guy, and he loves you, and he loves this country. And he's going to do fantastically. He's going to win. We're going to keep on winning. Remember, I used to say in a little jest, but I really meant it, ""We're going to win so much."" Remember? We're going to win, win, win.  It's what we're doing. Remember? I said, your governor or your senator or Pete or somebody, they're going to come into Washington say, ""Mr. President, please, we're winning too much. The people of Minnesota cannot stand winning so much. Please, can we take it easy?"" And I said, ""No, we're going to keep winning, winning, winning.""  So we've created 3.4 million new jobs since Election Day. 3.4. And I've said before, if I would have said that to you during the campaign, those very dishonest people back there, the fake news -- Booo -- Very dishonest. They would have said, ""He's exaggerating."" CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks!  These are very dishonest people. Many of them. And we have some people, too, doing that. But there's a lot of very dishonest people. For instance, I just got back, as you know, from Singapore, where I met --  -- where I met Kim Jong Un. And we had a great meeting, great chemistry. We got along really well, which is very important. They didn't want us too. But, you know, it's like nice to do that. And very interestingly, at first everybody was amazed -- amazed that we had the meeting. They couldn't believe it the first 24 hours. They said, ""I can't believe it."" You remember that, a while ago? They said, ""They're going to meet."" Then about a day later they said, ""What's the big deal with the meeting? What's the big deal?"" In other words, their bosses said, ""You can't say that."" But the beauty was this: So we had a meeting. It was an incredible success. And they said, ""The President gave away so much. He met with them."" I said, ""What else?"" That was -- I met. What am I supposed to do? I had to meet. Right? ""He met."" Now, sentence one says, a total denuclearization of North Korea. That's what it says.  We got back our hostages.  And I didn't pay $1.8 billion to get back our hostages -- paid. We got back our great fallen heroes, the remains. In fact, today already 200 have been sent back.  They stopped shooting missiles over Japan. They stopped all nuclear testing. They stopped nuclear research. They stopped rocketry. They stopped everything that you'd want them to stop. And they blew up sites where they test and do the testing.  And it was a great meeting. And Kim Jong Un will turn down -- and I will tell -- he will turn -- Chairman Kim will turn that country into a great, successful country. And let me tell you, and let me tell you --  -- let me tell you this: A year and a half ago, nobody thought that was possible. In fact, before I was elected, everybody assumed we were going to war. It would be a vicious war. In Seoul, you have 28 million people living 30 miles off the border. They don't even need nuclear weapons for that. They have thousands of cannons aiming right on top of Seoul. You could have lost millions and millions of people. But I got along with Kim Jong Un. I got along.  And that's a good thing, not a bad thing.  And these people, you remember, I said, ""I can't believe it. He's giving away so much."" You know what I gave away? A meeting.  And the fact that we do get along means we're safe. I'm not saying things can't happen. Things go wrong. Mistakes are made. Relationships get broken. But right now you are so safe, and such a great event took place. And all over Asia --  -- and all over Asia they're celebrating the great achievement that we made because you were the ones that put me here. We made -- that we made all over Asia.  And really all over the world. And by the way, in our country. Everybody knows what a great achievement this is not only for us, but for North Korea, for South Korea, for Japan, for China, for everybody. And I have to say, you know, you've been reading where I've been putting very large tariffs on China. Very, very large.  We hit the $250 billion mark. But I want to say, and we have to do that because it has to be balanced, it has to be fair. It wasn't fair. China and President Xi have really helped us a lot at the border of North Korea. Really helped us a lot, and he's a friend of mine. He's a friend of mine.  So you should be very proud of yourselves for what took place because that was very close to war for many years. Many years, it was very, very close. And now we can have something where everybody is going to live in peace for a long period of time. And there will be denuclearization. So that's the real story. Thank you.  That's the real story. So unemployment numbers are among the best in the history of our country. African American unemployment is at its lowest level in the history of our country.  Hispanic American unemployment has reached its lowest level ever recorded the history of our country. And remember I'd go into big stadiums like this that were packed? And by the way, you're very good at real estate. Did you see the thousands and thousands of people outside? That will never be reported by the fake news. But the thousands of people that couldn't get in.  Many thousands. They're all over. The parking lots. They're all over. And it would be great if the cameras could take a shot of the arena.  So usually they don't do it. And I usually go home and my wife would say, ""How was the crowd?"" Although honestly, when you have many thousands of people like we have tonight -- you know, I was at an event three weeks ago where a person from the New York Times said, ""There was only a thousand people."" And the people -- the many thousands that were there protested. I didn't even have to do it. And they wrote a slight correction. They were off by many thousands of people. That's the way it is. It's fake news, I'm telling you. So fake.  But usually they don't show the arena. They just show my face. So people would say, ""Did you have many people there?"" Um, didn't you see? No, no. They've only showed your face. And we all have ego, but I don't want to show my face. I want to show the crowds. It's much prettier.  Because you people are incredible. Unemployment among women has reached the lowest level, as of today, in 65 years. Sixty-five years.  And most importantly of all, America is respected again. We're respected.  We're fighting to protect American iron, aluminum, and steel, and to protect our incredible and very brave miners.  But I'll tell you, to keep this incredible momentum, I think maybe the most successful that the country has ever had. I think we are now at the most successful level that the country has ever seen. That's how we're doing.  And let me just tell you, because I hear a couple of the fakers, the other day, said, ""Well, I think it's Obama's economy."" Obama's economy? Obama? Booo -- They want to put on more regulations. They want to take back your tax cuts, which are massive. They want to take them back, and they want to raise the hell out of your taxes. And the whole thing will go ""boom."" Booo -- So we need more Republicans. We got to get out there in the midterms. We got to get more Republicans. Got to get more Republicans.  A vote for a Democrat for Congress is really a vote for Nancy Pelosi and her radical agenda. Booo -- Democrats want to raise your taxes; increase your regulations; shut down American energy; take over American healthcare, which has been a disaster with Obamacare; and ship away American jobs. And that's what they will do. If anything bad happens to this country, it will be a disaster for all of you. But we're not going to let it happen. We worked too hard to get here.  And the greatest phrase, I think, in the history of politics is on all of those red and white hats that I see out there: ""Make America Great Again."" And that's exactly what we're doing.  Make America great again. And you know what our new phrase is in two and a half years. You know what it is, right? ""Keep America Great."" That's what it is. Because that's what we are.  So the Democrats want open borders. Let everybody come in. Let everybody pour in. We don't care. Let them come in from the Middle East; let them come in from all over the place. We don't care. We're not going to let it happen. And by the way, today, I signed an executive order. We're going to keep families together, but the border is going to be just as tough as it's been.  Democrats don't care about the impact of uncontrolled migration on your communities, your schools, your hospitals, your jobs, or your safety. Democrats put illegal immigrants before they put American citizens. What the hell is going on? Booo -- Illegal immigration costs our country hundreds of billions of dollars. So imagine if we could spend that money to help bring opportunity to our inner cities and our rural communities and our roads and our highways and our schools.  Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! So we've already started the wall. We got $1.6 billion. The wall has been started.  San Diego and lots of different places. And we go -- but, boy, it's tough. They want to do anything they can to obstruct and to make sure it doesn't happen. But it's happening. It's happening. Oh, we have a single protestor. There we go. Goodbye, darling. Goodbye, darling. Booo -- So we have a single protestor. He's going home to his mom. Say hello to mommy.  And tomorrow, the fake news will say tomorrow, ""Massive protests at the Trump rally."" One person. Massive protests. Aye yai yai. So we're going to make it great for Americans. And we're going to take care of people. And we do want people coming across our border, going through our ports of entry, but we want people to come in through merit. Not just through luck or happenstance. We want them to come in through merit.  And we need people, because we have so many companies now -- and you know very well in Minnesota what's happening. They just gave me a run-through. What's happening in Minnesota is incredible. But we have so many companies moving back into our country. We need people to help, but we want them to come in through the merit system, not a system where we get MS-13 and everybody else that other countries don't want.  And the Democrats' open border policies have also allowed MS-13 to break into our country and drugs to pour into our streets. And we're stopping it. Booo -- We have taken out of our country -- and actually -- can you believe I have to say this -- we have liberated towns. Liberated. Like it was captured by a foreign country. We have liberated towns out in Long Island.  MS-13, gangs. We have taken them out of our country by the thousands.  And these countries that send them back, we're putting in legislation -- we're not giving them anymore aid. When they send people up. Remember the original speech -- right? My original speech. They are sending -- you remember those words? Everyone said, ""Oh, how terrible."" They are sending -- well, let me tell you, they're sending -- and they're not sending their finest. That I can tell you. And we're sending them the hell back. And what we're doing --  -- what we're doing -- we give hundreds of millions of dollars of aid to countries. We have a horrible deal, as an example, with NAFTA and Mexico. Horrible deal. Booo -- They make over a hundred billion dollars on that horrible trade deal where factories were emptied. So many bad things have happened, and we're going to make it a part of NAFTA. Because you have to mark up thousands of miles coming through Mexico -- you come up thousands of miles coming through Mexico, and we're going to stop it. Get him out of here. Get him out of here. Booo -- Go home to your mom, darling. Go home. Get him out of here. Out. Booo -- USA! USA! USA!  Was that a man or a woman? Because he needs a haircut more than I do. It's true.  I couldn't tell. Needs a haircut. But the media never talks about the American victims of illegal immigration. I know them well. I know so many of them. I campaigned with them. What's happened to their children, what's happened to their husbands, what's happened to their wives. The media doesn't talk about the American families permanently separated from their loved ones because Democrat policies release violent criminals into our communities. We need safety. We need safety. They don't bring cameras to interview the angel moms whose children were killed by criminal aliens who should have never been here in the first place. Not even close. They don't want to talk to the angel moms.  But as your President, I will always fight to protect American families. I will.  I will always fight for an immigration system that defends our borders and takes care of our sovereignty as a nation.  I will never sacrifice the safety and security of the American people. And I will never be silent in the face of vicious smears and attacks, and the heroic agents and officers of ICE and the Border Patrol who save millions. Just the job they do -- saves thousands and thousands of lives. And are so brave, and are so tough.  If you want to create a humane, lawful system of immigration, then you need to retire the Democrats and elect Republicans to finally secure our borders.  Because we need Democrat votes. We have a majority of one in the Senate. We need Democrat votes in the Senate. We need additional votes in the House. We will have the greatest borders, the greatest walls. We've already started, but it's a lot tougher than it needs to be. We need Republicans to get out and put Republicans in. In case you don't know, in the Senate, we need, unfortunately, 60 votes. We have 51 votes. We need Democrats. They will do anything to obstruct, anything to make it as uncomfortable as possible. Because they think it's good politics. I actually think it's bad politics. We will see very soon.  Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! We're building it. We're building the wall. That wall is happening. Under the previous administration, America's rich, natural resources, of which your state has a lot, were put under lock and key, including thousands of acres in Superior National Forest. You know what that is, right? Tonight, I'm proudly announcing that we will soon be taking the first steps to rescind the federal withdrawal in Superior National Forest --  -- and restore mineral exploration for our amazing people and miners and workers, and for the people of Minnesota -- one of the great natural reserves of the world. And we'll do it carefully. And maybe, if it doesn't pass muster, we won't do it all. But it is going to happen, I will tell you. It's going to happen. And it's happening fast. We've already taken it, as you know, a long way down the road. And it's going to make things better. It's going to make it, from an environmental standpoint, better. As a result of our massive tax cuts, millions of Americans are receiving much bigger paychecks. Much bigger.  We've eliminated record numbers of job-killing regulations. By the way -- so, a few days ago, it was 500 days. So now it's like 511. In 500 days, we've cut more regulations than any President in the history of our country, whether it's 4 years, 8 years, or in 1 year -- in one case, 16 years. We've cut more regulations in 500 days than any President, even our 16-year President. We've opened up energy exploration in ANWR in Alaska.  They've been trying to do that from before the days of Ronald Reagan. Couldn't get it done. We repealed the core of Obamacare. The individual mandate is gone. So unpopular.  The individual mandate where you pay a fortune for the privilege of not paying for insurance for healthcare. Let me tell you, we just repealed it. You don't have to pay anymore. So big. So big.  And we would have repealed and replaced Obamacare, although we've gone a long way toward doing that anyway -- we just had to do it a longer route. Because we had a gentleman, late into the morning hours, go thumbs down. That was not a good thing he did. That was not a good thing for our people, for our country, whether you're a Democrat or Republican. And everybody said, ""Oh, good. We have his vote. We have everybody's vote."" We were going in for a routine repeal and replace, and he went thumbs down. Not nice. That was not nice. Booo -- We're bringing back our jobs from other countries. We're bringing back our companies from other countries. Chrysler is coming back. Chrysler just announced they're coming back.  Many, many companies are coming back to our country. They know where the action is. This is where they want to be. And as far as trade is concerned with other countries, we want fair and reciprocal trade. We don't want stupid trade like we had for so long. Stupid trade. Right?  Remember the word ""reciprocal."" Remember the word ""reciprocal."" We have been ripped off by almost every country on Earth -- our friends and our enemies. And I hate to say it, our friends do a bigger and better job than the enemies. But those days are over. Those days are over.  And even before we finish off with the trade deals -- and we will finish off with the trade deals. People don't realize we have the cards. Because we're the piggy bank that everybody was robbing for 30 years. We're like the piggy bank. Let's go get some more. You look at the European Union. They put up barriers so that we can't sell our farm products in. And yet they sell Mercedes and BMW and the cars come in by the millions. And we hardly tax them at all. They don't take our cars. And if they do, the tax is massive. So they're basically saying, ""We're going to sell you millions of cars. By the way, you're not going to sell us any."" Not going to work that way anymore, folks. Not going to work that way.  We will not be taken advantage of anymore. We're a great country. We're going to be an even greater country. Hopefully, greater than we've ever been before. We have such potential.  We just secured a record $700 billion in funding to rebuild our military, which was in very sad shape.  And we have approval for next year: $716 billion. We're ordering new planes. We make the best in the world. We're ordering new ships. We're ordering new military equipment. And we even gave our great warriors a raise.  Gave them a raise. For the veterans, we passed the largest VA reforms in half a century. A landmark VA accountability law. You know what that is. You couldn't fire anybody that worked in the VA. They were sadistic in some cases, they were lazy, they were this, they were that. Lots of different things. You could never fire anybody because the accountability, you could forget it. So we passed a bill that they've been trying to pass for almost 40 years. It's called VA Accountability, where now you bring the person into the office and you say, ""Jim, I'm sorry to tell you you're fired. Get out of here. Boom.""  Right? And even more important -- and I didn't think I'd be saying this so soon because I would campaign on this -- I used to go out during the campaigns -- and you know it because I was in Minnesota a lot. But obviously, one more trip. Aye yai yai. That won't happen again.  But one that's really important to me. And I used to say to myself, ""I wonder why doctors don't just take care of our great vets."" We just passed Veterans Choice legislation. Passed; signed.  That gives our veterans the care they deserve, the care they earned. Now look, so our veterans were waiting online for 9 days, for 12 days, for 3 weeks. Someone online with a minor problem, they ended up having a terminal disease. Now, I said during the campaign, before I knew too much about it, but there's a lot of common sense in life. I say, instead of one of our great veterans waiting for two, three, four, five weeks, why don't we let them go see a doctor and pay the bill? And that's what we're doing. That's Veterans Choice. That's Veterans Choice.  And you know, I went to people -- I thought about it -- I thought, oh, I think I'm such a genius. Okay. I thought this was the -- like, the greatest idea. But I went to the vet groups, I went to every -- ""Yeah, we've been trying to get that passed, sir, for 30 years."" Okay? I didn't know that. But what I did know is I knew how to get it passed, and we got it passed. Two weeks ago.  And by the way, we passed another one. It's called ""Right to Try."" You know what Right to Try is? Very proud of it. Right to Try. These are people that are terminally ill. It's sad. They travel all over the world if they have the money. If they don't, they don't know what to do. If we have drugs that haven't been approved yet but are showing tremendous promise, it didn't matter. It didn't matter how sick you were, where you were. You couldn't get it. And the reason was, they didn't want to do anything that's going to hurt you. You're not going to be around for five weeks. In five weeks -- I kept saying, ""Why can't we do something?"" If people had the money, they'd travel to Africa, to Asia, to Europe trying to find the cure. It was called ""hope."" They wanted hope. And they couldn't get it. I said it's ridiculous. I got involved. And this is also -- like Veterans Choice, for many years people have tried pass it. And Kevin was a great help. I have to tell you. Kevin McCarthy, who just left the stage, was a great help. So were your congressmen. A great help.  And we got Right to Try passed. And four weeks ago, I signed final legislation, and we're very proud.  And many people are going to be saved. Many, many people are going to be saved. And you'd think it would be easy, but it wasn't. Between the insurance companies and the healthcare companies and the pharmaceutical companies -- it was incredible. But we did that, and now we're bringing down the prices for prescription drugs way down.  So we've made this incredible progress together with your help, with the help of the millions and millions of people that -- well, some polls got it right. But not all polls got it right. But they showed up, and the beginning of that night, people are saying, ""You know, this could be a big problem for the Democrats."" They were not liking what they were seeing. They were seeing too many of those hats. They were seeing too many people with -- you know that. That was an amazing evening. That was one of the most incredible evenings. Because that's a movement, the likes of which this country has never seen before. This country has never seen it.  You know, we talk about the forgotten men and women. They're the smartest people. They work the hardest. They pay taxes. They do all of the things. And yet, they were the forgotten people. And believe me, our people are the smartest and the hardest working. Smarter than anybody, and the hardest working.  You know, a little thing I was talking about today. You ever notice they always call the other side -- and they do this on -- ""the elite."" The elite. Why are they elite? I have a much better apartment than they do.  I'm smarter than they are. I'm richer than they are.  I became President and they didn't.  And I'm representing the greatest, smartest, most loyal, best people on Earth -- the deplorables. Remember that? The deplorables.  USA! USA! USA! You know, I was watching when Crooked Hillary made -- and by the way --  -- hey, excuse me. Have you been seeing -- Booo -- Have you been watching what's been going on with the Inspector General's report? What a scam this whole thing is? Okay? Booo -- How guilty is she? Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! With Peter Strzok and his lover, Lisa Page. Booo -- I don't think their wife and husband are too happy about that. What do you think? What do you think? I don't think so. No, but have you been seeing this whole scam? Have you been -- do you believe what you're seeing? No matter what she did, no matter how many crimes she committed, which were numerous, they wanted her to be innocent. With me, nothing. No collusion, no nothing. And they just wanted to take all of us. They wanted to put us in trouble. And it's not working too well, I'll tell you. Disgusting.  Called the ""phony witch hunt."" Phony witch hunt. But you look at the corruption. Did you ever see anything like it? Really, today more things -- that's why they're building up immigration so you can't see what's going on in Congress. They're building up immigration. They don't want to show what's happening in Congress where this whole scam has been revealed. So they want to stay on immigration where Obama had bigger problems than anybody, where Bush had problems, where other -- they want to stay on immigration because they don't want to go into the halls of Congress, which has totally revealed the Russian scam that's going on.  What a group. What a group. I'll tell you something, we want to get along with Russia. But Russia is looking out and they're saying, ""Man, I wish she won."" Between our military, our oil that we're doing. She wanted to have windmills. You know? We want to compete with the oil. All the things we've done. All the things we've done, including sanctions. So many things. They're looking back, they're saying, ""You know, I wish Crooked Hillary won that election. It would have been a lot better for Russia."" So what we want to do is we want to elect more Republicans so that we can deliver on all of the things I'm talking about. And I'll be honest with you, we're going to deliver it anyway. We're going to be able to deliver it anyway.  We're going to lift millions of Americans from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. We are going to lift them.  You know, one of the greatest things about all the jobs we've created -- to me, the greatest -- is that people now don't get stuck in one job and they hate it. They don't want to get up in the morning. They have many, many options. They can go out. Wages are rising. It's a beautiful thing taking place. They can get something -- I've always said, you know, when I make speeches on how to be successful -- I always say, like the first thing, you got to love it. You got to love it. You got to love your job or you're never going to be good. These people now that didn't have any options -- they were hanging on to one job that they hated. They have many, many choices. They get the job they want. And for the first time in 20 years, wages are rising.  We're going to build new airports, and we're going to build railways and highways and waterways all across this magnificent land. We have spent, because of horrible decision-making, $7 trillion in the Middle East. Think of it. Seven trillion. Booo -- And if we want to fix a window, it's like a big deal. Seven trillion dollars. It's all coming back. Remember during the debates, I'd talk about growth. Growth. We need growth. Nobody has ever seen growth like we're having right now. When I go around and meet foreign leaders, they all congratulate me. ""Mr. President, congratulations on the growth of the United States. Congratulations."" Every one of them. First thing they say. First thing they say.  USA! USA! USA! By the way, is there anything more fun than a Trump rally? Is there? Seriously.  And we break every attendance record every single time, just about.  We're going to put new steel into the backbone of our country, and we're going to make that steel right here in the United States. [App"
"Thank you. Thank you. Wow. Do we love Nashville, do we love Tennessee. We love Tennessee. Thank you. What a crowd. What a crowd. I want to thank you. I want to thank Trace Adkins; he was incredible. And, you know, Trace won The Apprentice. Trace is a winner. And I want to thank you very much. Trace. That was fantastic. I'm thrilled to be here in the great State of Tennessee, and that's what it is; it is a great state. It's the heart of American music, and I mean incredible music. I love country music and culture, joined by thousands of hardworking American patriots. So joining us this evening are many of your wonderful Tennessee Republican leaders. Boy, this feels just like before our election. This is a big crowd of people, a lot of people, a lot of people, with bad weather and bad everything. And they're still coming in. We love you. We love you. Thank you. And we're producing for you. We're really producing. You know, people are saying that we made certain promises and I'm the only politician -- can you imagine, the word politician -- I never thought that was going to happen, I don't even like it -- but I'm the only politician that produced more than I said I was going to produce, and we're only 1 1/2 years in. But, before we begin, we have some great people. State Republican Party chairman who's done an incredible job, Scott Golden. Scott? And Lieutenant Governor Randy McNally. Randy, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Randy. Thank you, Scott. From your House delegation we have David Kustoff. Where's David? David? Thank you, David. David Kustoff. Scott DesJarlais, the most beautiful name in politics. Thank you. Diane Black? Diane? Where's Diane? She's in a big race. Good luck, Diane. And Jimmy Duncan, right, Jimmy. First time I met Jimmy Duncan, I was in Pennsylvania doing a speech with a good friend of his, Lou Barletta, who's now running for the Senate in the great State of Pennsylvania and I think he's going to do really well. He's an incredible guy. But they're good friends. So I was making a speech and Jimmy Duncan comes in. I didn't know Jimmy at the time. This is before the election. And Tennessee has early voting, right, very early. And this is like three weeks before the election. And he comes up and he goes, You know, Mr. Trump -- see, then, it wasn't Mr. President; it was just Mr. Trump -- and he goes, You know, I've never seen anything like it, but I love the State of Tennessee. And those people were coming from the hills, from the valleys, from the mountains, they were coming from everywhere. He said, I've never seen anything like it. Really early voting in Tennessee. He said, All I can say is you're going to win Tennessee in a landslide, which we did. But he said, If the rest of the country is like Tennessee, right, Jimmy, If it's like Tennessee, you're going to win this election very easily. But we all kept hearing, he can't get to 270. Remember, you need 270 Electoral College. There is no way to 270. And they were right: 306. There is no way to 270. I went to Maine. I love Maine, but I went there four times, because I needed one, I had to find one because I believed the fake news. They were wrong. There they are right back there. They're fake. They are fake. Look how many of them. Look how many, oh, boy. That's a lot of people back there. That's a lot of people. Fake news. We're also very grateful to be joined by Senator Lamar Alexander. Lamar? And Senator Bob Corker. And, finally, the person we are all here tonight to support, the next United States senator from the great State of Tennessee, a very, very early supporter of ours and a really wonderful woman -- she loves your state, she loves your country, she's going to win -- Marsha Blackburn. Come up, Marsha, for a second. Marsha? Thank you so much, Mr. President. We are absolutely thrilled that you are here and I'm glad all of you are here. Thank you for everything you've done to elect so many Republicans and thank you for everything that you are doing for President Donald Trump. I've got to tell you, he has had an amazing 18 months -- a Supreme Court justice, 40 federal judges, repealing record number of regulations, tax cuts, decreasing illegal immigration, standing up to China and North Korea, defeating ISIS in Syria. Let me tell you, that is what you call getting the job done. And I'm going to tell you right now, Tennessee needs a senator who is going to support President Donald Trump, and I am going to be there to stand with President Donald Trump and take your Tennessee values to Washington D.C. to fight with him to get the job done. Thank you all so much. Thank you, Marsha. She is a great woman. She is a great woman. So we need Marsha in the Senate to continue the amazing progress and work that we've done over the last year and a half. There has never been an administration -- and even some of our enemies are begrudgingly admitting this -- that has done what we've done in the first year and a half. Think of it. We've created 3.3 million new jobs since Election Day. Now, if we would have said that before the election, that I'm going to create 3.3 million new jobs, we would never have survived the onslaught from the fake news. They would have not accepted it. They wouldn't have accepted it. They would have said, There's no way you can do that. Unemployment is at its lowest level since the turn of the century. Now, the actual number is 19 years, but I said, Let's see, 19 years -- that brings us into the last century. I love the sound of the turn of the century, right? So I said, Let's not use 19; let's say the turn of the century. But that's a long time. African-American unemployment and Hispanic-American unemployment are at their lowest levels in history -- in history. Unemployment among women is at its lowest level in almost 20 years. And wages, for the first time in many, many years, are finally going up. Wages are going up. I used to talk about it on the campaign trail. People were making less money working two and three jobs than they were making 20 years ago. Well, now, wage -- it's going up, folks. What can I say? They're just going up. Wages going up and they're going up fast. The forgotten men and women of our country are no longer forgotten. They are forgotten no more, no more. We're reasserting American strength and confidence and talent. We have tremendous talent in this country, tremendous talent in this room, a big room, this stadium, this arena. We have tremendous talent, and our talent and our strength is being respected again. Prosperity is booming. Optimism is surging and America is winning. We're winning. We truly are making America great again. Look at all those hats. But, most importantly, our country is respected again all over the world. We're not making apologies. We're not making excuses. We're respected again as a country. No more apologies. But, to keep this momentum going, to continue this incredible progress, to keep on winning, you have to vote Republican in November. You see what's happening with the Democrats. So Marsha's very liberal Democrat opponent, Phil Bredesen -- I've never heard of this guy. Who is he? Who is he? He's an absolute, total tool of Chuck Schumer. He's a tool of Chuck Schumer and, of course, the MS-13 lover, Nancy Pelosi. She loves MS-13. Can you imagine? Remember? I said they're animals, and she said, How dare you say that? How dare you say that? Have you seen what they've done? Have you seen what they are doing to us? And we're taking them out of our country by the thousands -- out, out by the thousands. So Philbert was recruited by Schumer to run for the Senate. He had to get Pelosi's approval -- can you believe this? And, if Bredesen were ever to get elected, he'd do whatever Chuck and Nancy -- remember the term, Chuck-and-Nancy. They don't want the wall. They want open borders. They're more interested in taking care of criminals than they are in taking care of you. Bredesen donated a lot of money to the campaigns of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton -- Crooked Hillary. So how do you like the fact they had people infiltrating our campaign? Can you imagine? Can you imagine? Can you imagine people infiltrating our campaign? Is there anybody in this big, beautiful arena right now that's infiltrating our campaign? Would you please raise your hand? That would take courage. Now, look, you take a look at what's going on. Never in the history of our country has something taken place like took place during this election. In all fairness, I'm no fan of Crazy Bernie Sanders. I'm no fan. But I want to tell you, he got screwed. He did. He did. Crazy Bernie -- he still doesn't know what happened. No, he doesn't know. I saw him on television. I don't know what happened. Me, too. I thought he was winning. But it helped me, because we were very, very cautious and we worked hard -- many, many speeches a day. That last month of campaigning -- and some of the polls got it right. But I'll tell you what, I'd see the crowds, crowds like this. I'd go one to another to another all over the country. She'd go there. The only way she filled up the arena was to get Jay-Z. And his language was so filthy that it made me, like, the most clean-cut human being on earth. He'd stand up there before those crowds -- and, by the way, without any musical instruments, I had much bigger crowds than he was drawing -- but he'd stand up before those crowds and he'd use the F-word and Hillary would sit back and -- I'm in trouble. I'm in trouble. Please, don't have him use that kind of language anymore. And then he'd finish and everybody would leave and she'd be standing up making a speech to 400 people. But Phil Bredesen supported her. And he supported her ideas. He opposes the border wall. We need a wall. We're going to get the wall. We've already started doing it. So we've already started. We got $1.6 billion in the last approval. Now, remember this: We had to take care of our military folks, OK? We had to take care. I got $700 billion for our military and next year I got $716 billion. And our enemies look at us much differently now than they looked at us two years ago. We also, by the way -- very important to all of us -- we got $6 billion -- that's B billion -- $700 B billion, but we got $6 billion for opioid and getting rid of that scourge that's taking over our country. And the numbers are way down. We're getting the word out -- bad. Bad stuff. You go to the hospital, you have a broken arm; you come out, you're a drug addict with this crap. It's way down. We're doing a good job with it. But we got $6 billion to help us with opioid. So, if you want strong borders -- and again, we started that wall. We have $1.6 billion for the wall. We've started the wall. And, in San Diego, they came to us -- they wanted the wall in California. And you heard the story. I said, Don't give it them, because we lose a lot of energy. They wanted it so badly. They got tired of illegal immigrants walking across their front lawn. Can you understand that? Isn't that terrible that they got tired? Why shouldn't they have people walking in their living room? Why? So they wanted the wall. So I said, No, let's wait. And they said, Go ahead and build it, we got a good price. So we started to build it. Then I had second thoughts because of the governor of California, who loves sanctuary cities and other things. So he didn't want the wall. But they were putting so much pressure, so I decided to do it. Then, in the middle of doing it -- it's beautiful. It's big. Nobody is crossing it very easily. Not one of those that you can just scoot to the top. This is a real wall. So what happened is, in the middle, like, I sort of had second thoughts. You ever have second thoughts about something? I said, You know, let's stop building the wall, because we get more pressure put on this crazy governor where the taxes are high and the crime is high. Other than that, he's doing a fantastic job, OK? In California -- I have property in California that I don't care about anymore. When you do this job, there's only one thing that matters. That's getting it done properly. It doesn't matter -- getting it done. Who cares? Who cares if you have property? Big deal. So I said, Let's stop building the wall. I said, How much would it cost? Because I know too much about contractors. I think half the room is contractors. Look at these people. I can tell a contractor. I can smell a contractor, believe it or not. There are a lot of contractors in this room. So I said, Find out how much it would cost to stop. And one of the generals said, Sir, it wouldn't cost anything to stop. I said, Really? Find out. When he came to me, he said, It's $7 million to stop. I'd said, All right, keep building it, OK? I'm not going to stop it for that, right? We got to get it done. So we're doing the wall. We started the wall. But we want to do -- we need about 700 miles of wall. It's 2,000 miles. We need about 700 miles of wall. We're getting it. We have a lot of natural barriers that are better than any wall you could build. But we're getting it. And, for those people -- remember I used to say, And who's going to pay for the wall? And these guys all think, Wow, we finally have them. Because Mexico said they're not going to pay for the wall. What does that mean? What does that mean? We're renegotiating NAFTA. Remember what I said. We are having -- we are having -- you remember I said to Tennessee, I said to everyone -- we have such a bad deal with Mexico. We have such a bad deal with Canada. We lose with Mexico over $100 billion a year with this crazy NAFTA deal. One -- think of it. It's impossible. We lose $100 billion a year, and that doesn't include the billions of dollars of drugs that flow into our country. That's not included. That's probably another $100 billion, probably more than that. And it's really destroying our youth. We're going to stop it and we have been stopping it. And immigration is down much, but we need border wall. We need -- we got to have a change in our laws. Our laws are the worst laws of any country anywhere in the world -- catch and release. Did you ever hear? You catch, you take their name and you release. Great. Wonderful. Then they are supposed to show up to a court. There's only one problem: They never show up. So we're working on it. We're having a real problem. The Democrats want to use it as a campaign issue. And I keep saying, I hope they do. The fact is the Democrats are lousy politicians. They are lousy on policy. I happen to think them allowing open borders, which we don't allow anyway -- but they make it very difficult -- but them allowing open borders -- that's a good issue for us, not to them. I really -- but the one thing they do -- the one thing they do is they stick together. It's always like 48, 49. Nobody leaves in the Senate. They stick together. They always vote, like, 100 percent. OK? So we need more Republicans. We're going to get them. We're going to get the wall done anyway. Mexico, I don't want to cause a problem. I don't want to cause it. But, in the end -- in the end, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. I'm just telling you. All right. I don't want to cause any problem. But in the end Mexico is paying for the wall. They make all of this money and they do absolutely nothing to stop people from going through Mexico from Honduras and all these other countries -- the caravan, all of this stuff -- they do nothing to help us. Nothing. They're going to pay for the wall and they're going to enjoy it. OK? They're going to enjoy it. They do nothing for us. So, if you want strong voters, and if you want -- not only that; we have to do something with the lottery. We have to do something with chain migration. We have a guy in New York a year ago -- he ran over and killed eight people, right? Eight people, and nobody ever talks about the people that were injured. Do you ever notice? They say, eight people who died, well, about 12 are just horribly injured. They lose an arm. They lose a leg. These are people that are running alongside of the Hudson River, which I know so well. And they are running. And this maniac takes his car, he's driving fast, he goes, he knocks off as many people as he can. Eight people killed, many people badly injured -- missing a leg, missing an arm. Can you imagine? These are people different from me in the sense that they want to run. I don't want to run. They want to run. And they go and they work hard. And they want to look good. And they come home because of this maniac and others like them. Look at what's going on all over the world. Look at what's going on -- look at what's happening to Europe. So they go. And they take this man, right? And he got here and he's got 22 people that came in -- his mother, his father, his grandmother, his uncle, his brother, his sister. He got -- 22 people come in for this one guy. That's called chain migration -- 22 people. And then, of course, you have the wonderful lottery system that was started by Chuck Schumer, or -- sometimes referred to as Crying Chuck Schumer, right? I know him for so many years. I know him from New York so long. Crying Chuck -- remember, he was crying. He was so sad. He got up, he was crying. He was working those tears. He was trying so hard. He was trying so hard that, actually, they weren't tears. It was sweat. He was sweating. So Crying Chuck wanted to have a lottery system. Think of it, a lottery. You pick people. Now, let me ask you. So these countries that are sending people in -- do you think they are sending us their finest? Do you think they are sending us -- so we got the lottery. So they put names, and we pick the names, and they come in, and then we wonder why we have problems. We're not going to be a stupid country anymore. We've stopped it. We're not going to be. And you can say what you want, but I think border security and security in general is a great issue for the Republican Party. I think it's a great issue. Not a bad issue. So, if you want the strong voters, if you want crime to stop -- and, by the way, as a country, we have it way down. But then you take a look at a place like Chicago. What the hell is that mayor doing? What is he doing? But we have -- crime is down in the country. But we need Republicans, and we need to get out and vote for Marsha. If you want your communities to be safe, if you want your schools to be safe, if you want your schools to be safe , if you want your country to be safe, then you must go out and get the Democrats the hell out of office, because there's no common sense. And we're going to defend our borders, and we're going to fight hard on crime. We're not going to let what's happened over the last long period of time -- been going on for a long time. We have borders down 40 percent, and it's tough because our economy is doing so well. More people try to get in, so it makes it even tougher. But the other thing is we are going to protect your Second Amendment. You won't have a Second Amendment if the Democrats take over. You won't have a Second Amendment. You won't have a Second Amendment. So, last week, I visited a place where -- I essentially grew up right next to it -- to discuss the menace of MS-13. This vicious gang has transformed once peaceful, beautiful communities that I know so well -- I know them all -- into bloodstained killing fields, savagely murdering, raping and mutilating their victims. And they don't even want to do it with a gun. They talk about gun control. They don't want to do it with a gun. They want to do it with knives. They want to cut people up into little pieces because it's more painful. And then I have to listen to Pelosi and these people saying, We have to respect them. They are human beings. They are not human beings. They're not human beings. And this is why we call the bloodthirsty MS-13 gang members exactly the name that I used last week. What was the name?  Animals. MS-13 takes advantage of glaring loopholes in our immigration laws to infiltrate our country. That's what they do. Think of it. We're bringing them out by the thousands, but they come in. We're bringing them out by the thousands. In Long Island, we have guys in border patrol. And we have guys in ICE -- and women, fantastic women and brave and tough and strong -- but we have the people in ICE. They go around and grab MS-13. And the beauty is, they are much tougher than these gang members. And they see these people. And they say, Man, and they throw them into the paddy wagons. And the towns -- this is Long Island, where I grew up. You have the same kind of communities. But, for some reason, so many in Long Island -- it's like they've been liberated, like from a war. It's like the enemy has been taken out and the people are dancing and they're waving and they are looking out their windows and they are waving to the ICE people. Those people are incredible, brave, tough people. They've been liberated. Terrible. If you would have told me 30 years ago, 20 years ago, that could happen to Long Island, I would have said, No way. But that's what happened. But think of it. It's like these towns have been liberated. Yet, in the face of MS-13 and its threat, Washington, Democrats voted against legislation to remove these criminal aliens. They voted against Kate's Law. And they voted in favor of sanctuary cities that protect criminals. And they voted in favor catch and release. OK? So Democrats have opposed every common-sense measure necessary to stop this horrendous scourge of crime, to dismantle MS-13 and to stop illegal immigration. That's why we have to go in November. You have to work with Marsha. We have to get the votes. We need the votes. They stick together. They'll always vote. Phil -- whatever the hell his name is -- this guy will 100 percent vote against us every single time. I have Democrats come up to me. I love you, President. I love the job. I'm with you, President. Some of these states, I won by 44 points. And they're afraid that, if I go there, which I will -- so they're telling me all sorts. They're actually saying good things. Democrats running for office -- many of them are saying great things about me. In fact, I think they're Republicans. But here is the problem: They're not going to vote for us. No matter what they say, doesn't matter. The only thing that matters -- they don't have to say anything. The only thing that matters is will they raise their hand. They will never raise their hand, because I told you, they are bad at everything, but they are good at sticking together. They are good at sticking -- I give them respect for that. They are good at sticking together. It's the only thing they are good at. We support the rule of law and we support the heroes of law enforcement. Thank you. And we defend our Constitution. And we have confirmed -- we've got now through confirmation a record number of judges who will interpret the Constitution as written, as written. We have pride in our history. And we have respect for our great American flag. We put our hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance. Put our hands on our hearts. And we always proudly stand for our national anthem. Thank you. What's that all about? Guided by these shared values, we've already accomplished more than anyone ever dreamed possible. A year and a half -- that's all it is. We have not let you down. I'll never let you down, never. We passed the largest tax cuts and reform in American history. Larger than Ronald Reagan, many years ago. And you know? When I got involved, I said, You got to help me with this, because why have you never been able to pass tax cuts? You might have heard the story. And they said to me, Sir, I don't know. We just can't pass them. I said, Can I see a few of these bills over the years? I looked at one from 20 years ago, 10 years ago, 30 years ago. But it doesn't say Tax cut. It says the Tax Reform Act of 1994, tax reform. It says things -- what does reform mean? It might mean you pay more taxes. It didn't say cuts. So I meet with the politicians, and they've been doing it much longer than me. Remember that I've only been doing it for a couple of years, right? But we have common sense. I said, Wait a minute. When you pass the tax reform act of whatever year, nobody knows it's tax cuts. Well, I think they do. Great, let's give everybody an education. We're going to give 350 million people an education. You got to call it the Tax Cut Act. The Tax Cut Act. And then said -- good people -- well, meaning they want to pass it -- really good people -- Kevin Brady, a lot of great people, knowledgeable -- they said, Sir, what would you like to name it? I said, I'll tell you, and I'm being serious about it. I want it to be called the Tax Cut, Cut, Cut, Cut Plan. Four cuts. And we all agreed that was a little bit hokey, so we decided not to do that. But we call it the Tax Cut Act, OK? And it was -- and I don't say easy. I don't say easy -- and then, of course, repeal and replace Obamacare. But what -- we had it done, folks. It was done, and then, early in the morning, somebody turned the hand in the wrong direction. That cost our country a lot. That was a very, very terrible thing that happened that night. That was a very terrible thing. That cost our country $1 trillion in entitlement saving that nobody would have known. It would have given us a good health care plan and that cost us a lot. And nobody knew that was going to happen, because we had it done. Repeal and replace. And the person that voted that way only talked repeal and replace. He campaigned on it. So I'll tell you this. I'll tell you this. To get that, we are coming up with great health care. Our secretary of labor is coming out with a plan in two weeks -- association plan. Going to be great. Our secretary of health, Alex -- we have Alex Acosta, you know that. I have my two Alexes. Both my Alexes are coming out with plans that are phenomenal plans, phenomenal plans, Alex Azar, Alex Acosta. And they'll be out over the next four weeks. It's going to cover a tremendous amount of territory. Plus, in the tax cuts, what did we get? The individual mandate is out the window. That was the most unpopular part of Obamacare . So unconstitutional. That was where you have the privilege of paying a lot of money so that you don't have to pay for health care because you're not going to get it, OK? So you pay not to have to pay for health care, in other words, you're not going to get health care. You pay for the privilege, they give it. You pay for the -- every time I think of this, you pay for the privilege of not getting health care -- great. That's a great one. I love that. That was an Obama special. Who would think of that? Who would think of it? So we got rid of the individual mandate. We also got ANWR in Alaska in tax cut plan. Friend of mine called, they said, You know, that's amazing, ANWR. He's in the oil business. Successful guy. He goes, I can't believe it. They've been trying to get ANWR. That's a massive find. It's been for years and years they haven't been able to get it approved. And I wasn't pushing it too hard, to be honest with you, because I was more focused on the tax cuts. He called up, he goes, Is it true that you're trying to get ANWR and you'll maybe get it? I said, Yes. Who cares? It's the biggest, like, the biggest find. It's like phenomenal. I said, Why do you ask? He said, Well, you know, every president -- Bush. Bush -- $7 trillion in the Middle East -- great, great, great investment. A lot of death, death and blood and money -- horrible, Bush. Everybody tried to get -- so he said, People have been trying to get that approved since Ronald Reagan. I said, What about Reagan? He tried also. They failed. When I heard that, I said, You got to get ANWR approved. And we got it approved as part of the -- I never knew it was such a big deal. It's actually a big deal. And the people of Alaska, who are great -- they're working on it right now. They're moving it along. Last week, we passed new landmark legislation to give choice to our great veterans. It's going through. We're going to have it. It's going to be incredible. We're going for choice. Haven't finished the process yet, but it's happening -- choice. You know, before I knew too much about the V.A., I used to say, We're going to take care -- these are our great people. They are, in many cases, in pretty rough shape. They'd have to wait for a doctor for three weeks, four weeks, for 16 days, for a week, sometimes for months. They go on to line with something that could be easily cured; three months later, they haven't seen a doctor and they're terminally ill. OK? And I said, We have to help. And I didn't know too much about it. But I said, You know what makes sense to me? They wait for the doctors, they can't get in. You know what makes sense to me? Let them go out to a private doctor who's looking for business, and let the government pay. Right? And I went to the so-called experts and they said, Yes, we've been trying to do that for years. I said, I see. So it's not like an odd idea. No, we've been trying, but we can't get it passed. We're very close to getting it fully passed. Choice. Choice. We also did something else. That -- the V.A. -- our veterans -- we got the V.A. Accountability Act. Do you know what that is? Do you know what that is? Now, we all love the unions. We all love civil service. But the power that they have -- you couldn't get it. For years and decades, they've tried to get accountability, so people wouldn't treat our vets badly. You had sadists. You had people that would -- would be terrible to our vets, and you couldn't fire them. You had people that would steal, they'd rob. You'd catch them, you couldn't fire them. And I had what's called the V.A. Accountability Act. Nobody thought I could get it through -- nobody -- because of the unions. Hey, I understand -- and because of civil service, which is very powerful. We got it through. I signed it a couple of months ago. Right? And now, when somebody steals or when some sicko hurts our great veterans, we look them in the eye and we say, Jim, you're fired. Get out of here. Get out. And they're gone. They're gone. They're gone. V.A. Accountability Act -- I'm proud of that one. Nobody talks about it. By the way, these guys don't talk about it. They never talked about it. They never talk. They don't even talk about it. Something good happened -- they don't want it. And it's mostly good, I will tell you. They don't want to talk about it. This month, just like I promised during the campaign, the United States officially opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. Good. That's good. Here's just a quick story. I really understand now why it was never approved by everybody that ran for office -- every president, both parties in running. They said, We're going to open the embassy in Jerusalem. We're going to recognize Jerusalem as the capital. We're opening the -- OK, this was their campaign, the politicians. This is their campaign over and over. Many, many presidents. But not one -- because you're fired, yes. They got fired. I guess you're right. They're not here. But not one did it. And I thought that was terrible, because you see them campaigning -- it's one of their many points. But we're going to open the embassy in Jerusalem, over and over and over. Now it comes time -- one of them wins. They never do it, right? They never did it. And now I know why. Because, two weeks out, when people sort of started to think that we're going to open up the embassy, I was called by every leader in the world. Don't do it. Don't do it. We don't want it. Don't do it. Don't -- and I understood. The pressure not to open it was tremendous, and we did it, and we did the right thing. We did the right thing. And, after -- I'll tell you a little business story, fast one. But, after it was approved, I told the generals -- and John Bolton is here some place. Where's John Bolton? Great John Bolton. They think he's so nasty and so tough that I have to hold him back, OK? It's pretty great. And he's doing a great job. You better get some rest, because we have pretty good negotiations coming up. He's here with his daughter, who lives, by the way, in Tennessee -- so happy. So I say, I want to build it. We just got it approved. It was a big deal. I want to build it. And they said, Yes, sir. So I get this, you know, executive order -- this big, beautiful piece of paper. It must have cost, like, a fortune. Like, even -- look, for my speech, I haven't used it yet, but ( ). So beautiful. Leather -- most expensive leather money can buy, you know. Thing probably cost $2,000. "
"So, I want to thank your former governor and your current vice president. And he and Karen are doing an unbelievable job for our nation. Thank you, Mike.  You're making Indiana proud and we are all making America proud. We are rocking. We are rocking.  So, I'm thrilled to be here tonight with the incredible, hardworking patriots of the Hoosier state. Hoosier.  And I don't know if you see what's going on outside, but you have a lot of people outside that want to get in but they're not getting in because this place is packed. This place is packed.  This is truly an exciting time for our country. Jobs are booming -- remember? I told you. I told you.  Confidence is soaring and optimism is at the top of every chart. This is a great time for our country. A lot of things happening. Every day we are unlocking new opportunities for prosperity and for peace. All of these changes are happening because America is being respected again.  At 2 a.m., early this morning...  And by the way, I got back to the White House at 4:30 a.m. and somebody said, Oh, that's OK. You can cancel Indiana tonight.  And I said, You just don't know the people of Indiana. I don't have the courage to cancel.  But at 2 o'clock in the morning I had the incredible honor of greeting three brave Americans who had been held in North Korea. And we welcomed them back home the proper way.  And on June 12th, in Singapore, I'll be meeting with Kim Jong-un to pursue a future of peace and security for the world -- for the whole world.  And the relationship is good. But you remember everybody in the fake news where they were saying, He's going to get us into a nuclear war. He's going to get us into a nuclear war?  And you know what gets you into nuclear wars? And you know what gets you into other wars? Weakness. Weakness.  So the relationship is good. And hopefully, I mean, for all of us, for the world, hopefully, something very good is going to happen. And they understand it's very important for them. It's important for everybody. So Japan, South Korea, China, everybody, I think it's going to be a very big success. But my attitude is and if it isn't, it isn't, OK? If it isn't. It isn't. But -- and you have to have that, because you don't know. We're not going to be talked into an Iran deal where the negotiator, John Kerry, refused to leave the table.  What a deal. What a deal. But here at home, the great news keeps rolling in: 3.3 million new jobs since election.  Now if during the election -- and by the way, how great is Coach Bobby Knight?  Oh, we love our coach. Remember he came in. He called me before I was running. I didn't know. They said, Bobby Knight's on the phone. I said, What does he want with me? I never announced. I was thinking but I guess he read -- and he said, Mr. Trump I hope you're going to run. I said, Check and see whether or not this is Coach Knight. But actually when I heard that voice I knew it was Coach Knight. You can't duplicate that. And I took his number. I said, Coach, I'm thinking about it. He said, You're going to -- you're going to win if you -- if you run -- and does he know about winning? And if you run, you're going to win. So anyway I put his number down and I was coming to this area. By that time we had a big lead but they said, Indiana. And a friend of mine said, If you could get Coach Knight, that would be a great thing. I said, You know, he called me like a year ago. Let me see if I can find his number. And on my left I had a pile of papers like this high, and I said, Let me see. I lifted up thousands of pages of junk; some actually pretty important. And I lifted it up and there's this little thing, Bobby Knight's cell phone number. Isn't that great? , and he picks up the phone and he said, I've been waiting for you to call. Can you believe that? And he came here and we sold out, I don't know what the hell that arena was but it was a big one. And they went crazy. And Lou Holtz and Coach Cady...  Coach Cady, Lou Holtz, we had them all. Coach -- by the way not from this area but he's one of the greats of all time, Coach Belichick right? Great guy. We got to love him. Oh, now we love him. We love him. He knows how to win also. But we had a lot of coaches; they like us. They understand winning and they like us. And that's what we've been doing. And if we would have told you during the campaign that we would create 3.3 million jobs in the short time, everybody back there, the fake news media -- look at all of them.  They're fake news. Everybody back there would have said, Can you imagine he's saying we're going to create 3.3 million? Can you believe it? We would have been -- but you know what? We understand. We understand. And -- and today -- today in the history of our country, just came out. Right? We have the most jobs available in the history of our country. Just came out.  We like that. We like that a lot. Because we have a truly great country and I've been promising those kind of numbers. The unemployment rate is at the lowest level since the turn of the century.  African-American unemployment has reached the lowest level in the history of our country.  Remember I used to read stats, Hispanic, African-American stats. And I'd read -- and it said, high crime rate, lousy education, this, this, I'd read like six. And one day in front of a massive crowd, 25,000 to 30,000 people, I said, Vote for me. What the hell do you have to lose? And you know what? They did. They did.  And my people all said, Oh, that was not nice. I said, It's true. Because the Democrats -- who are just obstructionists. That's all they can do.  The Democrats have had a lock on the Hispanic vote and they've had a lock on the African-American vote. No longer. No longer.  So the Hispanic unemployment likewise is the lowest -- think of it, in the history -- in the history of our country. It's the lowest. So you have African-Americans, Hispanic, women, women, women. We love women. Women.  The lowest unemployment rate in 18 years. I'm sorry we didn't make it in history but we're catching -- it will soon happen. I'm disappointed with that. Can you imagine? My most disappointing stat is women. It's the lowest unemployment rate in 18 years because all of the others are history. But I have the feeling the women will soon be history too, because that's what's happening.  And all of the great momentum that we're having as a country on jobs, on safety, on security, on our military, it's all at stake in November. You know, I don't think we've ever done better as a country, certainly the economy and lots of other things. Look at all of those beautiful red hats. Those beautiful red hats. Look at them.  Boy oh boy. And I like the white ones too. Make America great again. Lifts those whites up there. But it can disappear quickly. You know, what we did was unprecedented in the history of our country, really in the history of the world, what we did with this election. And the strides that we're making have never, ever been made like this before. But it can also disappear if you put fools and if you put the wrong people in. It can disappear. I mean, Nancy Pelosi said yesterday...  Nancy Pelosi said yesterday she wants to end the tax cuts and raise your taxes. I said, tell me. Is that like good politics? You know, it's not about politics but think of that from a political standpoint. I don't think her party was too happy. But you know what, that's her thought. That's what they want to do. They want to raise your taxes, end your tax cuts. They want to have open borders where everyone flies into our country. That's not happening.  So this week you nominated an incredible slate of Republican candidates, many of whom I know.  And you have to work every day between now and November to elect more Republicans so that we continue making America great again.  And by the way, this is a first for Indiana. Our new slogan for 2020, you know what it is? Keep America Great.  Because we're doing so well that in another two years when we start to heavy campaign, Make America Great Again wouldn't work out too well, right? It's going to be Keep America Great because that's exactly where we're headed.  But don't tell anybody. I don't want anybody to know. We want to save that for a surprise. But I do like that. And you know what I paid for that slogan. You know, a lot of these people, the politicians they run. They pay millions of dollars for ideas like that. How much did I pay for that? Zippo. Zippo.  And I have great respect for the process. But in all fairness, Obama -- President Obama...  ... paid $1.8 billion for hostages. Not me. You -- last night you saw it. And again, it's leading to some very big things. And I think that Kim Jong-un -- Kim Jong-un did a great service to himself, to his country by doing this. But those hostages came out with respect, we didn't pay for them. We're going to set the table. We're going to make a great deal for the world, for North Korea, for South Korea, for Japan, for China.  So what he did was the right thing. But they came out for nothing and the others came out for $1.8 billion in cash. Can you believe that? We're honored to be joined by a friend of mine and somebody who's done a really, really good job. Somebody that's respected very, very highly, Senator Todd Young. Todd. Where's Todd?  see? That's a great politician. He doesn't even want a good location. He is of the people. Thank you Todd. We also welcome the largest vote winner in Indiana history, except for Trump, Attorney General Curtis Hill. Where's Curtis?  Good man. He's done a great job. A woman who has been of tremendous help on the tax cuts, on getting rid of regulation, which maybe is just as important. Right, Jackie? What do you think? Jackie Walorski. Jackie.  Done a great job. And some congressmen who have been incredible: Larry Bucshon. Where's Larry? Great job. Congressman Jim Banks. By the way, somebody that just fought an incredible campaign. A really good guy, and I'm not sure I would have been here. You know, we're talking two days ago. Very effective, a terrific man, Congressman Todd Rokita.  Thank you, Todd. Great job too. He fought tough. They all fought tough. That was a tough race. But we have somebody here that won that race but we'll talk about him in a second. Let me also congratulate two of our new Republican nominees for Congress. First a proud Army veteran, who earned two Purple Hearts, Jim Baird. Jim's going to really do well. Jim.  Great job. And second, a man that I know Mike has been rooting for, for a long time, I'll tell you. Mike loves his brother, who won by a very big margin. I don't know: Was that a bigger margin than Mike Pence won by? I don't know, Mike. That was a big margin. Greg Pence. Greg.  Finally a big congratulations for Indiana's new Republican nominee for the United States Senate, Mike Braun. That was a good race.  How about we let Mike for a second interrupt my speech? Is that OK? Come on, Mike. One of the neatest experiences of my life was spending 30 minutes riding with the president. And you wouldn't believe the advice you get and it's great advice. And I'm going to incorporate it. Yes.  You know, when I started this journey almost a year ago, I traveled the state, spent a lot of time in the north. And wanted to make sure this was going to end up with a good result. Would not have done it if I wasn't inspired by what this man did in 2016.  He -- he cleared the field systematically and really that was the inspiration for doing it. And I can guarantee you, when I get there, I'm doing it for the right reasons. I'm a businessman and an outsider, just like our president...  ... and you can count on me to be a true reinforcement and the guy that is going to retire Joe Donnelly. Thank you.  Thank you, Mike. And we need Mike Braun in the Senate and that's going to happen. That's going to happen. He's an incredible guy and ran a really incredible race. Now if Joe Donnelly -- Sleeping Joe and the Democrats get back into power remember what I said: They will raise your taxes -- he wants to raise your taxes -- they will destroy your jobs and they are going to knock the hell out of your borders. And that's already -- we have the worst immigration laws in the history of mankind. We're slowly getting them changed. We want to make it quick. So give me some reinforcements please. OK?  Last week, as an example, the deputy chair of the Democratic National Committee, Congressman Keith Ellison -- you know him?  ... marched in a parade wearing a t-shirt that read -- he's very proud of it -- I do not believe in borders.  But I have a lot of respect for Keith Ellison. You know why? Does everyone know why? So when I announced on June 16th, he was being interviewed by George Stephanopoulos on ABC.  And in the interview -- this was a couple of days after I announced. And Keith Ellison said, You know he's going to win, don't you? Right, Mike? It's true. He said, You know he's going to win. And George and somebody else there I won't mention the name. Go ahead. They smiled a little bit, respectfully. But Keith Ellison, he said, He's going to win, and essentially he was sort of indicating and there's nothing you're going to be able to do, and that's what we did. So, in one sense I have to respect him. He said, He's going to win. So you can never dislike a guy like that, can we? But they've got a big problem. A vote for a Democrat in November is a vote for those borders, and we have to do something stronger. We are going to build the wall. We are already starting the wall.  We're going to build the wall. You know, we've already started. We got $1.6 billion. We're fixing a lot of it. We're -- in San Diego, so here's what -- here's a case study. San Diego wants the wall. And I said to my people, Here's the bad news. If we give them the wall, we don't have an advocate. If we don't give them the wall they're going to be putting a lot of pressure on Governor Moonbeam in California, right? But you know what I did? Something I would normally not do, which means in life I'm getting nicer as I get older. I said, Let's build the wall for San Diego. So we're building them the wall. I shouldn't have done it.  Actually I, sort of, changed my mind after we started. I called my people, I said, How much would it cost to stop building the wall in San Diego so they go out and advocate for us because they're desperate for their wall. Because they don't like people running over their front yards and all of the problems, including by the way massive amounts of crime? I said, How much would it cost to stop -- I'm in the construction business it's what I do best. They got back to me they said, Sir, it will cost approximately $7 million to stop. Now, that's not big numbers when you hear about the numbers we talk about, $7 million to stop and restart it at a later date. I said, I can't do that to the American people. Keep building the wall. Right?  So we're building the wall but we're -- we're getting it all done. We're going to get rid of catch and release. We're going to get rid of -- we're going to get rid of the lottery system. We're going to go eventually -- when I get the votes. I need Republicans. We're going to go eventually to a merit-based system of immigration. Merit. You come in on merit.  Your senator, Joe Donnelly, voted against enhanced vetting. Think of that. What -- what in the world would anybody be doing voting against enhanced vetting? Why? And he opposed a measure to block illegal immigrants from getting welfare. And now you have places where they want to give college tuition to illegal immigrants and your own kids can't get it. Your own kids can't get it.  Joe Donnelly voted no on tax cuts, no on better health care and he voted no on canceling job-killing regulations which maybe even more important than those incredible tax cuts. But he voted yes on something that we are systematically taking down. We got rid of the individual mandate. We have great plans coming out. He voted yes for failed Obamacare. And we're doing everything to keep those premiums down but it's a failed experiment, Obamacare. But wait until you see the plans we have coming out literally over the next four weeks. We have great health care plans coming out. But we got rid of the individual mandate.  Joe Donnelly will do whatever Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi tell him what to do. They don't ask -- they don't ask him. They tell him. They don't say, Will you? They say, Joe, this is the way you're going to vote. Mike Braun will be a great, great representative of the people of Indiana. Mike Braun is a winner. Great businessman, by the way. Very successful businessman. Mike Braun will fight for the values that bind us all together as Americans. We support law and order and we support the heroes in law enforcement. They're great.  They're great. And they will tell you surplus military equipment, right? We have it by the hundreds of millions of dollars sitting in warehouses getting old. Some of the best stuff anywhere in the world and past administrations said, No, we can't give that to law enforcement. Someday somebody's going to explain why, but I sort of get it. But it's not a good reason. It's about a 1 percent reason. We have a 99 percent. That equipment is being transferred all over the United States to our police and our law enforcement professionals.  And we already have it. The other side said, But it's too good. It's too good. It's already paid for. We defend the 2nd Amendment. And don't kid yourself, it is under siege.  We defend the right to self-defense. Never believe that your 2nd Amendment is not under siege. We believe that a strong nation must have strong borders. We have pride in our history and respect for our great American flag.  And we put our large, beautiful hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance, right?  And we proudly stand -- all the time we stand because we love that sound. We stand for our national anthem at all times.  But if we're going to defend our values, we need people in Washington who share our values. Democrats like Sleeping Joe say one thing when they're in Elkhart and then they go to Washington and vote for the radical, liberal agenda. It never, ever fails.  You know, there's about 12 of them. You think you have their vote and they talk a good game but they always raise their hand for the radical left of Nancy Pelosi. Always. The Center for Effective Lawmaking named Joe Donnelly the least effective Democrat lawmaker in the United States Senate. I don't know, Mike, but I think that will be a very good phrase to run by. He's never sponsored a bill that has become a law. This November, Indiana will face an important choice: You can send a really incredible swamp person back to the Senate like Joe Donnelly or you can send us Republicans like Mike Braun to drain the swamp. [ , audience chants Drain the Swamp] Under my administration, we're fighting against the lobbyists, the special interests and the corrupt Washington politics. After years of rebuilding foreign countries, of which a lot of people partake in the cost of rebuilding those foreign countries, we are finally rebuilding our country.  We fight to build their borders, but we don't fight and spend no money to build our borders. Figure that one out. We're fighting and we're finally putting America first.  And remember the last time I did this and this started two and a half years ago when I just started. People were not saying Merry Christmas anymore. The big store chains weren't saying Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. They weren't doing it. They weren't saying Merry Christmas. Now they're saying Merry Christmas again.  To bring back our jobs we're cracking down on unfair trade. We want trade deals that are fair and, by the way, reciprocal.  And we love our farmers. We're taking care of our farmers. And we love our factory workers. We love our workers.  For decades American presidents responded to foreign cheating on trade -- cheating. There's no other word for it, cheating -- they responded with silence. They didn't do anything. They were silent. Silencio. Let's not rock the boat. Oh, that's fine. We have $100 billion trade deficit with Mexico. Think of it: $100 billion trade deficit a year with Mexico. We have a trade deficit with almost every country in the world. We're changing that around rapidly.  We racked up trillions of dollars in trade deficits, also known as losses, while other countries stole our factories, stole our plants, stole our wealth and stole our jobs. But America's long silence is over and you see what's happening. Car companies are coming back into the United States. They're moving back in. Chrysler just announced. Japan is building big ones. We're expanding our plants. And I put tariffs on steel and I put tariffs on aluminum and United States steel just announced that they're expanding their factories, and they're building plants and we're going to start making steel and aluminum again.  America is respected again. Different ballgame. Under my administration, we kept another important promise when we put a great new justice on the United States Supreme Court, Neil Gorsuch.  And next week, after the promises of many administrations and presidents and they never did it -- they campaigned, they promised, they never did it -- next week we will finally open the American Embassy in Jerusalem.  And I put one of my friends as the ambassador to Israel, David Friedman. Good choice is right. One of the great lawyers of our country. Made a lot of money as a lawyer. But he loves his job. He loves the United States but he loves Israel. And they walked up to my desk about three months ago, right after I did it. Because they said, Let's go. We want to go. We want to build. We want to build fast. So they walked up to my desk and they give me this beautiful folder and I'm supposed to sign it. I said, What is this? And I'm half signed. They said, Sir, we're building an embassy in Jerusalem sir. I said, How much? Something other president's don't ask, but that's OK. They said -- I kid you not, they said, Sir, $1 billion. I said, $1 billion. You know, what $1 billion is? You have a beautiful house it costs you about $50,000 right? The bill. Hopefully it's worth a lot more than that. But that's what it cost. So I said, $1 billion? Yes, sir. We're looking for a site now. We're going to spend a lot of money on the site. Everyone's going to get rich from the embassy. So I called David -- I stopped signing by the way. I had Donald. D-O-N-A-L-D and then it was like dead. Call. And then I don't know if they still have it, beautiful paper very official looking. And then all of a sudden I stopped, never got to the T and I started putting Xs because I was afraid that somebody could say it was my signature. And I call up our ambassador and I say, David, this is crazy. I said we're going to build our embassy in Jerusalem but they want $1 billion. They're going to look for sites. Don't we have a site? He said, Yes. We have the best site. We already own it. And we have a building on the site. And I can take that building that's on the site, Mr. President, and I can take a corner of that building, a big beautiful corner and for $150,000 I can fix it. It will be so beautiful. The location's better. It's set back, which is good for safety.  And I can build it for $150,000. Think of it.  I said, David, so you're going to renovate a corner of a building that's going to be -- he said it's going to be beautiful. The site is the best site and we own it. The building is already built and we can fix it. So think of it: We have government wanting to build $1 billion in a site that would never be as good or as safe. This is a big site, big setbacks. They want setbacks for safety; makes sense. So I said, David, you can do that from $1 billion to $150,000. You know what? Spend $200,000 or $300,000 that's OK too. Now think of it. And the reason I was very cognizant because I was supposed to cut the ribbon of the embassy in London. You know all that story. So we have the best piece of property of all of London. It's our embassy. And someone between the Bush administration and the Obama administration -- Obama -- they say Bush started it but Obama could have stopped it. But let's say the two administrations what they did is they said, Wow. This is a great piece of property. We've been offered a lot of money, like $200 million or $250 million. And what we'll do -- because we're such great businessman, what we're going to do is we're going to sell this best piece of property in London by far. By the way, literally it's the -- if you know New York, 5th Avenue and 57th Street. I happen to have a building there so you know -- but that is the best one. The Tiffany location. It's the Tiffany location. It's the best location, and it's a big location, and it's the best embassy location we have in the whole portfolio. But somebody said, What a great deal. We're going to sell that for, I think, $250 million. So let's say -- to a wealthy person and they're going to rip it down. They're going to build a hotel or do something. And we sold this thing for $250 million. Now everybody in this room, because you're from Indiana, you understand life. You would say, OK, good. Now you're going to build a new one for $50 million. You're going to have $200 million left over. You're going to have a nice embassy. You're going -- that's -- OK but it didn't work that way in government. So they sold the embassy for like around $250 million. They then went out and bought a terrible piece of land in a lousy location. And they just opened a new embassy in a bad location for $1.2 billion. What a great deal. What a great deal. So, three months ago I was supposed to go over to cut the ribbon on the new embassy, but I couldn't do it. I'm not doing it. I won't do it. Does that make sense? I'm not going to do it. So I didn't.  Think of that story. Isn't that a sad story? So much, I could give you 50 of those stories. It's all the same. It's all the same. I could give you so many, but just remember when you see that embassy -- oh here's the other thing with the embassy. The new embassy, I said, When is it going to be open? They said, Anywhere from five to 10 years. So I said, Unless they give me an extension for the presidency...  Which I don't think the fake news media would be too happy about.  Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Actually they would be happy. Because when I'm not here, their ratings are going to sink. So they'll probably be very happy.  So they said, From five to 10 years. Now you know when they say, From five to 10 years that means probably 15 or 20 years, right? So we open the embassy next week. Three months. Three months.  Oh, I could tell you so many of those stories but I won't. I won't tell you any more. We have to save some. We only have about a thousand left. Among the many grave national security blunders of the previous administration, one of the world's worst was the disastrous Iran nuclear deal, a deal that would allow Iran to go right to the brink of nuclear weapons and ultimately very quickly have a nuclear weapon. And by the way, other countries in the Middle East who do have money all of a sudden would be looking all over the place for nuclear weapons. That was going to force a disaster. The deal also gave the regime billions of dollars. How about this? $150 billion and $1.8 billion in green -- $1.8 billion in cash, which would be used to spread bedlam and death and destruction all over the Middle East. They're all over the Middle East. And with all of that being said, who knows, because we're putting the harshest, strongest, most stringent sanctions on Iran.  And I hope to be able to make a deal with them: a good deal, a fair deal, a good deal for them, better for them, better for them. But we cannot allow them to have nuclear weapons. We must be able to go to a site and check that site. We have to be able to go into their military bases to see whether or not they're cheating. Now, of course, we're all sure they're not cheating, but just in case. The Iran deal was one of the most embarrassing agreements the United States has ever entered into. You remember the 10 sailors who were humiliated in front of the world for no reason whatsoever. But once again, Democrat Joe Donnelly served his liberal handlers in Washington, not the great people of Indiana that I know so well. He voted to save the deal four times.  But we save the deal no longer.  As we discuss another critical element of our national security to me, probably one of the reasons we're all here in this great victory celebration, is border security. We have many things to do, but we have already begun the construction of the wall and so many other things are following. We will have those borders extremely strong, extremely powerful, and we will have laws that match the border.  So if you think about it, the Democrats, they're weak on borders, weak on our military. We have -- and the last deal, we had to do it. Our military was depleted. When did we need military more than we need great military right now? We got $700 billion to rebuild our military. It will be stronger than ever before.  So the Democrats, they fight against the borders. They fight to raise your taxes. They want to raise your taxes. They fight for all of the things that we don't stand for. And we're going to have a great victory in '18. You watch. We're going to have a great victory.  History shows that when you win the presidency, two years later the party, for whatever reason -- like 90 percent of the time, the party that wins the presidency lose it out -- it loses on the mid-terms. And the reason is, I guess they get a little bit complacent. We're not getting complacent. We can't.  If we elect more Republicans we can truly deliver for all of our citizens. We're going to keep the promises anyway, whether we do or whether we don't. I'm going to keep that. We have delivered -- and it was said by one of these gentlemen. We have delivered -- one of the only times ever -- more than we promised. I have delivered more than I promised, if you think about it.  We will lift millions of Americans from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. We will put new steel into the spine of our country. And by the way, it will now be American-made steel.  And we will breathe new hope into our communities. We will do it all with American hands, American grit and American pride. Loyal citizens like you help to build this country, and together we are taking back our great and beautiful country, returning power to everyday American people -- these are the greatest of all people.  In every action, with every decision, we will stand up for America and we will stand up for the great state of Indiana.  This is the state where generations of American patriots and pioneers plowed the fields, carved the wilderness and worked the factories of the great American Midwest. No place like it.  It's the state that gave us Notre Dame football, Hoosier basketball...  ... and the legendary Indy 500. With your help this November, Indiana will inspire our country again. No dream is beyond our reach. Our ancestors braved the oceans, they tamed the frontiers, put down the railroads -- those beautiful railroads -- built up the highways and dug out the great Panama Canal. We are the nation that won two world wars.  And we are the nation that defeated communism and fas"
"[This is a First Draft of the transcript and has not yet been proofread by humans] Thank you very much. Hello, Michigan. Hello, Michigan. I love this state and I love the people of this state, and thank you for being here. Thank you. Thank you. You know you may have heard, I was invited to another event tonight, The White House Correspondents Dinner , but I'd much rather be in Washington, Michigan than in Washington DC right now, that I could tell you. Great people. Thank you for that incredible support and by the way you want to see a lot of people go outside. We could have filled this place up, probably five or six times, you see what's going on. Thank you. This is a beautiful building, but I said: couldn't you have gotten one larger? That would be nice right, but you know the expression you're inside, so you made it good, realistic. Good job tonight. We're especially honored to be joined by your really great friend of mine and a great Attorney General, the next governor of Michigan Bill Schuette, where's Bill? Well all right Bill, wherever the hell he is, right? Bill Schuette. We also welcome members of Congress, Paul Mitchell, Jack Burkman and John Mullen are... Where are they? Thank you fellas. These are great people, and I want to thank Chris McAnally and the Total Sports Park team for hosting us tonight. Thank you. I wish you could have given us a larger arena, but what are you gonna do right? Thank you, fellas. Finally, we have to thank a very special person in all of our lives because he got Melania. This, that's true because our amazing chairwoman, the Republican National Committee Ronna McDaniel, she's done some job and if you remember, she ran the state of Michigan and who won the state of Michigan after decades. I remember that night. You know, but a long time since the Republicans won Michigan and they said Donald Trump has won this state of Michigan remember and we won a lot of other states also. That was some night. So I want to thank Rana for the great job that she really has done. She's done it right from the literally right from the beginning. In fact, what we needed somebody over at the RNC, I said get that woman that ran Michigan. We need to elect more Republicans, so we can protect our cities, defend our borders, grow our economy and continue to make America great again and that's what we're doing we're doing we're doing some job we're all doing it together, but you see what's happening with regulations with Massive tax cuts with the judges we're pointing we're. Appointing judges like I guess never before has anything happened like what we're doing on great conservative Republican judges we're setting records and by the time we finish, I think we will have the all-time record. You have no idea how important it and then, of course, we have Justice Gorsuch who's been fantastic, he has been fantastic. Everyone here tonight is united by the same timeless American values. We defend our Constitution, we support the rule of law and we support the heroes of law enforcement. We are pride in our history and respect for our great American flag. We defend our flag and we honor our flag and if others honored our flag, there'd be a lot better off. Wouldn't they wouldn't it. We put our hands on our hearts for the pledge of allegiance, and we do that proudly and we stand for the national anthem. We believe that a strong nation must have strong borders. Are you watching that mess that's going on right now with the caravan coming up? Are you watching this and our laws are so weak, they're, so pathetic, given to us by Democrats, they're so pathetic, Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer and let me tell you, we've gotten Mexico to work with us on stopping a lot of what's pouring in, but we have the Worst laws anywhere in the world, we don't have borders, we're gonna build the wall, we're getting it. We've already started. I don't know if you see you know it's funny, so San Diego they're being just overrun great place, but they're being overrun by people pouring so they're begging us for a wall. So we have the money, it's all funded in San Diego and those people really want it, and I said, let's not do it there. Let's let them put pressure on Governor Jerry Brown, Moonbeam, Moonbeam, so we started the wall and it's being built in San Diego beautiful job. They did a great job and they said you know we stopped that war. All the people in San Diego are gonna put a lot of pressure, and I said well, let's see about that. So I said: how much would it cost to stop the wall, sir, it will cost seven million in extras. I can't pay the extra, as I hate extras right, so we're building the wall, but San Diego San Diego, wants the wall. That's going up and honestly seriously, they would have put a lot of pressure in California. If you look at what's going on with sanctuary cities. Now, all over California, especially California, the home of sanctuary cities, the home of sanctuary cities. But do you see what's going on where areas big areas? They don't want sanctuary cities, they want to be safe, they don't want them. So we've started. We have $1.6 billion and this last budget just so you understand we had to fund our military folks, we got, we got seven, our military was depleted and it was in trouble and now we're honoring brand new airplanes, world and brand new everything we got. Seven hundred billion dollars approved and next year we got seven hundred and sixteen billion dollars approved for our military. We had to do it and General Mad Dog Mattis would not be happy. I said to him yesterday I said General: do you think we really needed this? Much we needed it, sir. We need it, we really did. We needed it. So, by doing that, the Democrats don't care about our military, they don't they don't care and they don't care about our borders and I don't think they care much about crime, because if you look at it MS-13 they pour through everybody pours through and they wanted. They wanted and by the way we are getting rid of MS-13 in record numbers, okay record, the liberal politicians who support criminal aliens and they support them over far over American citizens. Nancy Pelosi and her gang they've got to be voted out of office. They've got to be voted out of office and you have a senator in mission. Senator Debbie Stabenow . She voted against Kate's Law. She voted against tax cuts, she votes against borders, she wants people to flow into the country and you people just keep putting her back again and again and again, it's your fault, so you got to get to the pole and we have some great people running the Primer is going to be over with soon, but we have some great people and honestly, if you want the borders to be secure, if you want to keep those big tack, how have you done with the tax cuts by the way and not only the tax cuts? The jobs that have been created, the jobs, unemployment, let me tell you our country - is doing great. You know the stock market, which is not really the all-time indicator, because the country is actually doing much better than the stock market, but the stock market is up almost 35 percent since the election, but the country's doing actually even bother. You know what bothers the stockmarket. I would have been up 60%, but I have to do things. You know what I have to do. I can't let other countries take advantage of us. Okay, I can't so we're doing trade deals and a lot of these folks in Washington. Please don't do that. I said: wait a minute: we have a horrible deal on this one on that one I won't even mention. I love you too , so we have to renegotiate these deals. If you look at China last year with China and look he's been of great help, President Xi he's a friend of mine, but he likes China. I, like the USA, but he's a friend of mine, but you know what he's been a great help on the border with North Korea and a lot of good things are happening war, a lot of good thing, I'm not gonna give you what's going to actually Happen: cuz, we don't really know, but I'll tell you one thing: we're not playing games, and I remember you know it was very rough three, four months ago. That's very nice! Thank you. That's where Nobel I just want to get the job done. So if we would have, if we would have said where we are today from three or four months ago, remember they were saying he's going to get us into nuclear war. They said no, no, no, no strength is going to keep us out of nuclear war, not gonna get us right, so we're doing very well. I spoke to the president this morning of South Korea for a long time. They just had a very good meeting. He gives us tremendous credit. He gives us all the credit I mean he as president moon of South Korea. You know it started with the Olympics because, frankly, the Olympics was not going to have a lot of people and all of a sudden North Korea called in and said you know, we'd love to participate in the Olympics. Everyone said, excuse me, that's it, but that was a good thing. It was a great thing and they went from having a real potential disaster. You know they worked on it for 15 years to make it great and they did a great job. South Korea did a great job, but they didn't have people who's gonna go all of a sudden. They had a tremendous Olympics very, very successful and we are doing things that are good. I think we'll have a meeting over the next three or four weeks. They're going to be a very important meeting, the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula of North Korea and but we'll see how it goes and again, whatever happens happens, look I'm going. It may not work out. I leave I'm not going to be a John Kerry who makes that horrible Aranda horrible one of the worst deals. I mean, how do you make a deal like that? A hundred and fifty billion dollars 1.8 billion dollars in cash? You know what that is, and you know what they got. They got nothing. They got nothing so we're gonna have hopefully a very successful negotiation over the next three or four weeks and we'll be doing the world a big favor, we'll be doing the world. A big favor, let's see how it goes, I think we'll do fine, I think we're gonna do just I had one of the fake news groups this morning, . Now they were saying what do you think President Trump had to do with it? I'll tell you what like, how about everything,  and even president moon, says that and he's been great and I'll. Tell you why it's gonna be an interesting period of time. We had a very interesting thing happen. Over the last few days, senator Jon Tester of a really great place, Montana, who voted by the way in favor of sanctuary cities, who's weakened the border didn't vote for tax cuts. He took a gentleman who is a truly high-quality human being and what they said about him. What they said about this great American doctor, Ronny Jackson, an admiral in the Navy. He served three presidents. President Obama said he was fantastic. President Bush said he was fantastic. I say he's fed this is a high quality individual like they would love in Montana and tester started, throwing out things that he's heard well, I know things about tester that I could say to and if I said him, he'd never be elected again and it was Said because I watched dr. Jackson, Admiral Admiral Jeff, both a doctor and an admiral high-quality, but I watched him and I suggested it because we're taking care of our vets. You know we've done a great job with our vets. We have accountability, approach, we're getting choice approved and I pulled it because I didn't like the choice. The choice wasn't good enough what they were going to. I could had it already. We could have had it in the last budget, but it wasn't good enough we're getting choice, which is a big deal. That's going to be game-changing and by the way I have five great people that want to run the VA. We have great people but I'll tell you what Jon Tester did this man is a disgrace. Admiral Jackson started setting and he was working so hard. I suggested it to him. You know he war hero a leader. A great you know, he's a Admiral, a great great guy, 50 years old and he started studying, and then he started getting hit with vicious rumors vicious and the Secret Service told me just coming. In sir, we checked out all of those things, sir they're, not true. They're not true, so they try and destroy a man. Well, they're doing it with us they're trying their damnedest, but that but a little. I want to thank by the way the House Intelligence Committee. Okay, they do it with us to Russian collusion. You know I guarantee you I'm tougher on Russia. Nobody ever thought in fact. Do you have you heard about the lawyer for a year a woman lawyer? She was like, oh, I know nothing. No, no! Now, all of a sudden, she supposedly is involved with government. You know why, if she did that, because Putin and the group said you know this Trump is killing us. Why don't you say that you're involved with government so that we can go and make their life in the United States even more chaotic? Look at what's happened? Look at how these politicians have fallen for this junk Russian collusion. Give me a break I'll. Tell you the only collusion. Is the Democrats colluded with the Russians and the Democrats colluded with lots of other people, take a look at the intelligence agencies and what about hate and what about combing? You watch them on. The interviews are what about Gumbel? What about Comey? How about that so combing? How about this guy coming? He said the other night, the fake dirty dossier. He said the other night on Fox. He said very strongly. No, I didn't know that it was paid for by the Democrats and Hillary Clinton how about that. They start something based on a document that was paid for by the DNC and Hillary Clinton. Honestly, folks, let me tell you, let me tell you it's a disgrace. We got to get back down to business, it's a disgrace what's going on in our country, and they did that they did that to admiral jackson. They are doing it to a lot of people. Innuendo. You know in the old days when the newspapers used to write they put names down today they say sources have said that President Trump sources they never say who the sources they don't have sources. The sources don't exist. In many cases they don't have sources and the sources in many cases don't exist. These are very dishonest people, many of them they are very, very dishonest people, fake dues buried this on . But you watch go me and you watch the way he lies and then he's got the memos. I wonder when he wrote the memos right, then he's got the memos and he puts them up watch the way he lies. It's the most incredible thing. Do you remember? Jon Lovitz, do you remember the liar? Well, Combes, worse commies, a liar and a leaker, you know, but you know I did you a great favor when I fired this guy. I tell you, I did you a great favor, because when you look at what was going on at the top of the FBI, it is a disgrace that everybody in this room understands it. The lovers, the two lovers right: Lisa Lisa and struck Lisa and Peter the two lovers: what they said. What was going on look at how many of those top officials were fired or removed, and they should be out of here, and what about the guy that took $ 700,000 for his wife's campaign? Nobody even talks about it. Nobody even talks about it. I'll tell you what I've been talking about it for a long time and if our Justice Department was doing the right thing, they'd be a lot tougher right now on those people, because there's tremendous crime and corruption. On the other side we need to drain the swamp. We need to vote against guys like John tester, that can destroy a man with innuendo and we have to be very careful with the press because they do the same. Damn thing we love our country. We believe our citizens deserve a government that is loyal to them. In return for too long, the loyalty of Michigan workers was repaid with pure and simple betrayal. You were betrayed for decades. You were dealt one devastating blow after another disastrous trade deals which I'm straightening out and I'm not saying hey. There may be a little pain for a little while, but ultimately for my farmers, I love my farmers. They're great Patriots. Don't forget, the farmers have been doing lousy for 15 years. Ok, let's face it. If you look at a graph, it's been like this. So when I say I'm negotiating NAFTA and if they don't make a fair deal, I'm terminating Neffs that I'll make a great deal. You're gonna do much better or when we take on China or the European Union, which has tremendous blocks. It's very hard for us to sell stuff into the European Union. It was put there to take advantage of the United States okay. So when we do not anymore you're right, not anymore, we told them that yesterday actually said the same words not anymore. Those days are over, but we've got to open up these markets. It's not fair, don't forget with China and President Xi when he was at mar-a-lago six months ago. I said to him: would you do me a favor? Would you take our cattle because you remember in 2000 they ended, they wouldn't take our cattle for whatever reason, but they didn't take cattle after a short discussion. He said I will sow the cattle is now going to China, but and plenty of other things, and he said last week at a speech. He is going to start opening up China, but it's not enough. It's not enough when we lose 500 billion dollars a year and that's in a trade deficit. When we lose hundreds of billions of dollars in intellectual property theft, not only China but others, we have to stop it. We can't allow this to happen so in a certain way, I call people Patriots because it's short term, you may have to take some problems. Long term you're gonna be so happy, you're gonna be so happy we're gonna get it opened up or we're not doing business with these other countries right with with the European Union last year. You know it sounds so nice, the European Union. You know why I mean they literally did like I said they formed to take advantage of the United States and I don't blame them. You know what I don't blame them. I don't blame President Xi, I don't blame Prime Minister Abbey of Japan. I don't blame the heads of these countries for taking advantage of us. I blame past presidents and past leaders of our country. I was in China and I was making a speech and I was saying how bad it is, how unfairly we're treated and I'm in front of thousands of people from China, and I could see the mood was getting dark and I have President Xi over here and I realized I was going point after point, how bad it is for us how good it is for them. They became a major power since the World Trade Organization, which is a horror show for us horrible, and I looked and I looked at President Xi and he's the boss he's the guy. I said, but it's not your fault, it's not your fault. It's the fault of the representatives of the United States, who allowed you to get away with it. I don't blame you right, I don't blame you and it went out and that's the way I feel about. I told Abby the other day, Prime Minister great guy. They send us millions of cars, we send them wheat and they don't take it. The reason wanted. We send them cattle, you know what they do, that you're just 50% 50% when we send them cattle, 35% or in farm products, but they don't take. Many because their farmers don't want it so they're not taking your product, but when they send their cars over, we charge them almost nothing. Let me give you a great example: it's so simple China, so when they send a car into the United States of which they send many, including parts and you people know something about the car industry, because I'm bringing it back to the state of Michigan right. So so I'm bringing it back and you know with Chrysler's, moving back to Michigan from Mexico, we saw that some of you are beneficiaries of that one, thousands of jobs. We have many many car companies, you see. What's going on Toyota, many companies are opening up in Michigan, the cars are coming back to Michigan, two plants are coming back, they're being expanded, and by the way do you remember about six years ago I wasn't even running and they gave me an award. The Republican of the year - I guess they probably maybe they knew what was gonna happen. I don't know I wasn't running long time ago and I made a speech in Michigan thanking them for the award saying how horrible? How did you let this happen where all of these plants closed move to Mexico? They build the cars in Mexico, they sell them across the border, no tax, we lose the jobs, we lose the taxes, we lose everything. How did anybody let this happening? Guess what not happening anymore? Folks - it's not happening so now, they're moving back now, they're moving back. But let me give you an example. So China, great people by the way, great people, great country, great leader, but when they sell a car into the United States, they pay two-and-a-half percent tax. When we sell a car into China number one, they don't want it because they have barriers, so they won't take it. But if they took it it's a 25 percent tax, okay, so think of it so think of it. So they have a tax. That's ten times higher. Now what they say is we don't want your cars, we have a barrier, but if we take them it's twenty five percent, so we're two-and-a-half twenty five. So far it doesn't sound good, but what's really bad is they say we won't take your cars. We want you to build your factories in China and make the cars there. Okay, all right, but you know what. Why are they wrong because now we're doing that? Also? Okay, build your factories here. If you want to sell cars in the United States, let them build them in Michigan, right, Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania. You see what's happening, you see, what's happened, we're really coming back and by the way ahead of schedule. You know I've. Only been here for 15 months, we have a lot of things happening. There has been - and I don't say this - hopefully in a braggadocious - I say this a fact: there has been even some of these people back. There agree with this one, although they try like hell, wait they try, but nobody in the first year of office has done what we've done is not me. It's we we, the first year regulations tax, cuts, judges, you look at what we've done nobody's done, what we've done, and in fact you know, Justin coming over your great congressmen are in the back of the car. Do you know what the Soo Locks are sue locks? Well, the Soo Locks are going to hell. You know that right and we're going to get them fixed up, we're gonna get them and for the farmers. Okay, it's gonna get good and we're gonna. Let your guest workers come in because we're gonna have strong borders, but we have to have your workers come in. You know the unemployment picture is so good. It's so strong that we have to let people come in they're gonna be guesswork, is they're gonna come in they're gonna work on your farms. We're gonna have the h2 bees come in. We're gonna have a lot of things happening, but then they have to go out. Then they have to go out, but we'll get a lot of men because you need them. You need them in Wisconsin. I was very instrumental in getting Foxconn to come here. Friend of mine, great guy fantastic, they make a lot of the Apple iPhones and a lot of they make almost all of it. I mean they are an incredible, really: an incredible company, they're, building a fantastic plant and it's under construction now and they're going out and they're recruiting and they're getting people and they're doing it professionally. But we need people to be able to come into our country. Do your jobs help you on the farms and then they go out. They get a leaf guest workers. We're gonna take care of that guess, workers! Don't we agree, we have to have them. We have to have it after years of rebuilding other countries, we're finally going to rebuild our country. Okay, it's about time, , think of it think of it. I've been saying it, but the number goes up and up and up remember this: we have spent seven trillion with the teeth trillion dollars in the Middle East. You know we have for it nothing, nothing! Nothing. Now we've really wiped out Isis there's no military like we have, and now I've asked some of the richest countries in the world. Sorry folks, you got to pay for this. You know we're tired. We don't want to pay and we'll work with them and we'll stop the trip to the Mediterranean for the enemies. We'll do lots of things, but we got to come home we're gonna. Let people there we're gonna. Have those people pay they got to pay. They get so much money, they don't know what to do with it: they're rolling in money and nobody, I've been asking them by the way I've been asking. Give you a little story. I gave it the other day, but nobody reports it. So you know, I said we're going to move the embassy to Jerusalem right so a month ago they come into my office with an order, sir. I have an order. What's the order, sir, we're going to build the embassy, raise it we're in Jerusalem, sir? Okay, good? How much sir 1 billion dollars? I said, whoa whoa and I you know I had the thing half sign. You got to see this. It's signed Donald and then it stopped, and then I put a big X over the Donald 1 billion dollar. Sir, I said: wait. A minute we're gonna spend a billion dollars, building a essentially a one-story building. We're gonna spend a billion. So I called my guy the ambassador to Israel, his name David Friedman. You know him. He was one of the biggest smartest lawyers a deal lawyer. One of the biggest in New York represented me over the years, he's just an incredible lawyer and he loves Israel. He loves our country, but he does. He loves. History is very proud of Israel very important to him, and I said you know David. Let's see if you can make peace, but part of it is let's see about this, so I call my say David, I'm not spending a billion dollars on an embassy. No, so you don't have to. I said: what do you mean? I think I can do it for a hundred and fifty thousand dollars so what I said a hundred and fifty thousand dollars, he said yeah, we have a great site, they were gonna buy a site, we have a great site, the best site. It's got a building on it and I can take a corner of that building and I can spend a hundred and fifty thousand dollars, sir, and I can build a beautiful embassy and we can have it open, sir, in three months, big difference and we're gonna. Let your guest workers commend these. Can we get it open immediately and it's opening it? Have it open, sir? In three months, big difference, big difference, so we went from a billion dollars to one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and I took the liberty of saying David. If you spend a little more than 150 thousand, that's okay, so we save a bit now it's temporary and it's set, but it's fine, it's nice and we get it open at a billion. Most of us accept all of these really beautiful young ones. Up here we won't even be around to see here we get it open immediately and it's opening in, like a month, you've been reading about it, so the embassy, but but it's not that look it's opening in a month now in, as you know, in the UK, In London we had the best site in all of London, the best site. While some genius said, We are going to sell the site and then we are going to take the money and build a new embassy. That sounds good, right? But you have to have money left over if you do that. So, they sold the site for like, I think -- and I'll check the numbers because they'll say, oh, you misrepresented, but these numbers are close enough. They sold the site for like $250 million. They think they are geniuses. They go out and buy a horrible location and they build a new embassy. That's the good news. The bad news, the embassy cost over a billion dollars. So, now what do we have? We have an embassy in a lousy location and I was supposed to cut the ribbon. I didn't do the deal. It was started by Bush and Obama. It was a Bush-Obama special, okay, but it could have been stopped by Obama. It would have been stopped by me. So, they have -- listen, they have -- so I said, What kind of a deal is that? You sold this great site. It's the best site in London. Literally, the best site. They were so happy, they got $250 million, oh, whatever, but they spent all of that money plus a lot more to build a new embassy in a lousy location. So, I don't know, folks, we need a whole new thinking here. We need a whole new thinking. We need a whole new thinking. We are going to finally put America first, okay? Since the election, we've created more than three million jobs including 300,000 new jobs in manufacturing. We love manufacturing. By the way, they wanted me to cut the ribbon on the new embassy, and I was all set, and then in the end, I said, I'm not going. I don't want to cut. I said I'm not cutting that ribbon. I said I'm not going. All right, hey, hopefully we'll have many years of success with that embassy, okay. In our country, jobs are booming and confidence is soaring. We are at the top of the charts, and they are talking about us all over the world. They are talking about this incredible success. And believe me, if I didn't get elected, if the opposition party, which I call the obstructionist party, they're obstructionists, it's all they are good at. If they got elected, they wouldn't have cut regulations. They wouldn't have cut taxes. You would have been down to a GDP that would have been negative. You would have had a negative GDP, and wait until you see over the coming quarters how good it is going to be. And you see what's happening. Our companies are ready to soar. They're ready to soar. Wages for the first time are rising at the fastest pace in many, many years -- 18, 19, 20 years. And I tell you, I always would go around and I'd say to you strongly, people have jobs. They made more money 21 years ago than they make today and in some cases, they have two and three jobs. Terrible. African-American unemployment has reached the lowest level in history -- in history. Hispanic unemployment -- any Hispanics in the room? Hispanics? No, not so many, that's okay. And by the way, in all fairness, Kanye West gets it. He got it. He gets it, and he saw that. When he sees that African-American unemployment is the lowest in history, you know, people are watching. That's a very important thing he has done for his legacy, it's a very important thing. But Hispanic unemployment, lowest level in history -- women female unemployment, lowest level in 18 years. And wages are going up for the first time in many, many years. That's great. As a result of our massive tax cuts, which by the way, Debbie Stabenow voted against and if they get in, if the Democrats get in, they are going to take the tax cuts away and they're going to raise your taxes to a much higher level than you ever thought possible. That's what they want to do, so they can give the money away. Millions of Americans are receiving large bonuses and bigger paychecks than they've ever received because they have so much money that they didn't even know they were making. You see what's happened as of February 1st, and right after the cuts, the corporations gave massive bonuses and they continue. Here in Michigan, Chrysler handed out $2,000.00 bonuses to 60,000 workers and announced plans for a $1 billion investment in Warren creating a minimum of 2,500 jobs. They are now leaving other countries and they are coming back to Michigan. Remember, I told you that five or six years ago? They are now coming back, and they are going to come back a lot faster than you have seen. And you know what's even more important than that? Leaving? Because we don't give them the incentive to leave anymore. They used to give them incentives to leave. We are not giving them incentive. No, we're giving them incentive to stay and to pay our people. But to protect our families, we must secure our borders. The good thing about the caravan, people are watching. People are watching. You watch how horrible -- they are coming in from Honduras. They are coming in from other places. They're taking this long trek up Mexico. We want Mexico to help us and we have to demand it, but Mexico is going to help us, but there are still hundreds of people that are maybe 2,000, there's still hundreds of people, and our laws are so corrupt and stupid, I call them the dumbest immigration laws anywhere on earth. If a person puts their foot over the line, we have to take them into our country. We have to register them. We then have to ask them a couple of questions. Lawyers are telling them what to say -- how unsafe they are, and once they say that"
"I love this place. Hello, Pittsburgh. Hello, Pittsburgh. You know what? Do me a favor, get out on Tuesday, vote for Rick Saccone, and we can leave right now. Come on. We don't have to spend any time. Great guy. I'm thrilled to be back in Pennsylvania, where I went to school, went to college with so many hard-working American patriots. You're great people. Great. Pennsylvania is the state that gave us American independence, American freedom, and what else? American steel. American steel. They've been talking a little bit about steel over the last -- little while, haven't they? And we're saving the steel, and a lot of steel mills are now opening up because of what I did. And not all of my friends on Wall Street loved it. But we love it, because we know what it does. Many plants have just announced over the last few days that they're expanding, opening. Steel is back. It's going to be back to, steel is back, and aluminum is back, gonna be back. And on November 8, Pennsylvania is the state that gave us the 45th President of the United States. And I think we're doing a good job for you. I hope so. We're working hard. It's not easy. That Washington D.C., it got a lot of evil there, but we're getting it out step by step. A lot of evil, a lot of bad people, a lot of bad people, lot of fake media, look at them. A lot of fake media, fake, fake media. You know, it's funny, I don't know if you saw it, but we've had a problem for years with North Korea. Fact, President Obama said, it was the biggest problem we had. And South Korea went there. We put very, very strong sanctions and lots of other things we've been doing. Right from the first day I was in office, and South Korea came to my office after having gone to North Korea and seeing Kim Jong-un, and... no, it's very positive, no. After the meeting you may do that, but now we have to be very nice because, let's see what happens, let's see what happens. So the South Korean top people, top representatives, they walked out -- the White House, to a throng of these characters. Big, big group, and everybody wanted to find out what happened. Now they just left North Korea and look, North Korea's tough, they're testing nuclear weapons, they're doing a lot of things. A lot of -- this should have been handled by the way, over the last 30 years, not now. That's what it should have been here. They shouldn't handle it. They should have been handled, and everybody will say it too. But that's okay, because that's what we do, we handle things. And these guys came out and they said that, Your President has done a great job. I might say. But -- well I'll tell you, we did a great job in the Olympics. President Moon of South Korea said Without Donald Trump, the Olympics would have been a total failure. It's true, so, you know, might as well say it. Nobody else is gonna say it, right? Might as well say it. Little hard to sell tickets. Would you think you're going to be nuke. But when North Korea called, and they said We'd like to be in the Olympics. Everybody said Let's buy tickets, let's go. I would have gone. And it became a very, very successful Olympics. Honestly, South Korea did a great job and it was great to see North Korea going and participating, and there was a nice unity. It was really a nice thing. But when the South Korean representatives, who just left North Korea, came outside, big throng of press, they announced that North Korea, Kim Jong-un, would like to meet with President Trump. Now, if this is it, this doesn't happen. You know, they say Oh well, Obama could have done that. Trust me, he couldn't have done that. He wouldn't have done that. He would not have done it. And by the way, neither would Bush and neither would Clinton, and they had their shot and all they did was nothing. Hey. Well, Clinton gave away billions and billions of dollars and as soon as they made the deal the following day, they started working on making more nukes okay, so that wasn't. That's not the great deal. Never see the story where I'm -- it's 1999, I'm on Meet the Press, a show now, headed by sleepy eyes, Chuck Todd, he's a sleeping son of a bitch, I'll tell you. And they showed it this morning, 1999 and I'm talking about North Korea. You got to take them out now and then they have Clinton saying We are pleased to announce that we have made a deal with North Korea. Well, you know how that deal turned out, right? We gave billions and billions of dollars and lots of other things, and we got nothing. But they show me young, handsome. I said Why couldn't I look like that today? I should have run back then, right? Huh? I should have run back then, I would have done this earlier. So -- but they had me, literally, saying I don't know if anybody's to it . They played a lot but literally saying to a very good guy, actually but saying that we got to do something about North Korea. That was when it wasn't in vogue and then they have Clinton giving everything away and then they show -- and here we are today with a man -- who's nuked up all over the place. But we've been very strong and very vigilant, and now lots of good things, I think are gonna happen, but we'll see. But the funny thing -- so, they announced that he's not going to send missiles up anymore until through the meetings. Well, think of that, you know, we were losing -- we're getting a lot of missile sent. I wouldn't say Japan was thrilled, missiles flying over Japan. They're very happy with what I'm doing. And, who else could do it? I mean, honestly, who do you think? They're not going to send missiles up, think of it. They're not sending missiles up, and I believe that, I believe that, I really do. I think they want to do something. I think they want to make peace, I think it's time. And I think we've shown great strength, I think that's also important, right? And -- and I must tell you, President Xi of China has really helped us a lot. They've really helped us and because 93% of the goods come in through China going into Korea, North Korea. Ninety-three percent. So, that's pretty powerful, and they've been very good. They could have done more, but that's okay, I'd say to him You've been great. You could do more. But they've done a lot. They've done more. China has done more for us than they have ever done for any other President or ever done for this country, and I respect that. I res... 'cause need that. Stopping the flow of goods, it's very important. And we put sanctions on. So they come out, White House, many of these same characters that I see, I see those faces, I see those faces. And for the first two hours, it was unbelievable. This is amazing. This is incredible. I can't believe this is happening. You know, because we go from like a lot of people, thought we're going to war and all of a sudden they come in, they say We're gonna have a meeting. And there's no more missiles going off and they want to denuclearize. Nobody had heard that, nobody thought -- but they said they want to -- They are thinking about that. Who knows what's gonna happen? Hey, who knows? It happens, if it doesn't happen. I may leave fast or we may sit down and make the greatest deal for the world and for all of these countries, including, frankly, North Korea and that's where I hope happens. But the press, for two hours, is going This is fantastic, this is amazing. A certain anchor on CNN, fake as hell CNN, the worst. Ugh. So fake, fake news. And the ratings are lousy by the way and compared to Fox their ratings. And a certain anchor, female, said This is really something he would go down as a truly great President if this happened. Okay, but all of them is saying This is amazing. This is incredible. Did you hear what they just said? They just said de-nuke. They just said all of these things. They just said no more missiles. They said they want to meet with President Trump. It was -- they couldn't believe it. The worst of them CNN, MSNBC, which is -- which is worse than I -- I think I have a new -- MSNBC, third rate, and NBC, which is horrible. Their newscast, by the way, is not doing well on NBC network, they're heading down the tubes. But -- but listen to this, I did The Apprentice on NBC for 14 seasons. I made a lot of money for them. We had a big successful show. Arnold Schwarzenegger failed when he did The Apprentice and he's a movie star. Martha Stewart failed when she did The Apprentice, and I just kept chugging along every year was a big hit. I mean, I did The Apprentice, made him a lot of money, gave him good ratings when they were absolutely dying and they did nothing but kill me. NBC is perhaps worse than CNN, I have to tell you. And MSNBC is horrible. So here they are. They're outside, these wonderful representatives, very high-level from South Korea are saying all of these things de-nuke and all of the things that they can't believe, because it's like five years ahead of schedule. Before this they would say, Well that will never happen, and this will never happen, and you'll never get them for -- Stop. You know, with the missiles. They're saying all of this. Now they say, they want to stop the missiles, they want to denuclearize. They want to do all of these things, and all of these people are like, they can't believe it. It's unbelievable. I said to my wife, I said, you know, it's amazing, they're really nice to -- It's really amazing. They're ll saying this is an incredible achievement. This is okay. Then I get up in the morning. So time goes by, right? Same people, they're, saying Not that big a deal, anybody could have done it. Obama could have done it. Obama had a chance. No, no. They're saying, Obama. Obama. Obama. Obama was driving you down. You take a look at those numbers before we took over, they were heading down. So, so just let me say, so I wake up. So it's so nice and I'm looking forward to watching in the morning. And I go -- I mean literally, they're saying, Well, Clinton could have met. Clinton gave away the house. I got nothing. And Bush, Bush, Bush, another great Republican. He got us into the middle east. That was great -- We spent $7 trillion in the middle east over a 17-year period, $7 trillion as of three months ago. Okay. Well, you know, what they did, that was like taking a big stone and throwing it into a hornet's nest, but we're bringing it back. ISIS? We have 98% of the Caliphate of the land, 98. So I woke up when I saw all these reports that, you know, anybody could have done it. Oh yes, sure. Anybody could have gotten President Xi, President for life. That was another one. So he's President for life. It happened two days ago. And I was joking. I was at a, a roast actually, but I was joking and I said, Ha, President for life, that sounds good. Maybe we're gonna have to try it. President for life. But I'm joking, but I'm joking. And they knew I was. Everybody there was laughing, everybody's having a great time, I'm joking about being President for life. A couple of who went back, Donald Trump with his dictatorial attitude. Now wants to be President for life. You know, straight fake news. Fake. Horrible. But you know what's gonna happen? Did you see the other day, 96% of what they do? All I do is good stuff.The economy is the best it's ever been. You're coal -- By the way, folks, some of you are in the coal world. Your coal is coming back. Big, big, big, big, your steel is coming back, your steel is coming back. Those plants are going to be opening, and what we've done with the 25% tariffs for those guys that come in and dump their steel all over the place, and by the way, it's not good steel, you guys know what I mean, it's crap. But your steel is coming back. It's all coming back. And six months prior to the election in 2020, every one of those guys, we really endorsed Donald Trump. We think he has to, and you know why? Because if I don't win the election, their ratings are gonna go so far down, they're gonna be out of business, every one of them. Can you imagine, can you imagine covering Bernie or Pocahontas. Pocahontas? How about that? Pocahontas. Can you imagine these guys? Some of them were actually smiling, but some of them just can't stand it honestly, some of them they can't take it. Can you imagine having to cover Elizabeth Warren before news? You know, I was watching during the campaign and Hillary was sitting right there and Pocahontas was up and she was so angry. Look. We love each other, the women, the men, we love each other, everybody loves -- She was so angry. I said, You know, I think she's losing the entire male audience and many of the women. She was going at it and Hillary sitting there saying, Oh, my god, what did I do here? This is -- But can you imagine if they had to cover some of these people that are running, I think any of them to be honest with you, I think any of them. Oh, I'd love Oprah to win, I'd love to beat Oprah. I know her weakness. No, no, I know her weakness. I -- I'd know her. You know, I know her very well. I was on her last show, were one of the last -- I guess the last week, she had Donald Trump and Donald Trump's family, my-my-my, we've come down a long way, haven't we? I'm now President, and probably, you know, but -- but think of it. I know her weakness. Wouldn't we love to run against Oprah? I would love it. I would love it. That would be a painful experience for her. So we've created three million. Thank you, darling. Oh, they're positive. I thought they were negative, they're positive. That's always the problem. We have a room that's packed, if we have one person, and that's actually a fan, by the way, that's a fan over there, folks. But if we have one person that speaks it, it's like a big deal the next day, so we've created three million jobs since Election day, nobody thought that was possible.  We passed the largest tax cuts and reform in American history. We've created more than 300,000 new jobs alone last month, and you saw the numbers yesterday. Yesterday's numbers job reports was among the best numbers ever produced in the history of our country, in the history of our country. In fact, my guys,  in fact, my guys, came into my office and they gave me the number because, if you add the previous month, which was adjusted upward by 52,000 jobs, they were low last month. It adjusted upward. So we're like over 360,000 jobs, and I said, Let me ask you, is that a mistake? I don't think I've ever s -- You know if you get 160, it's good. We were at 360, so I looked at my guys, I said, Is that a type of graphical error, what is that? But you saw it, was one of the best reports, and you know the amazing thing? Wages went up a little bit, you haven't had wages in 19 years. Wages are starting to go up. Think of it. Wages. I mean, how good is that? Wages starting to go up. African-American unemployment has reached the lowest level in history. The lowest. You know, African-American -- and I'm very proud of that. African-American unemployment, two months ago reached the lowest level in history and then last month that went up a little bit, right? And I made the mistake because I didn't know it went up and it wasn't quite as good, but it wasn't historic. So, I was in a different month and I said African unemployment is the lowest level in history. They killed me, because it was the previous month, but here's the good news the new month brought it down to the lowest level. So now it's a lowest level.  Hispanic unemployment is the lowest level. Think of that. Hispanic unemployment is the lowest level in history. Women, women, we love you, we love you. Hey, didn't we surprise them with women during the election. Remember? Women won't like Donald Trump. I said, Have I really had that kind of a problem? I don't think so. But, Women won't like Donald Trump. It will be a rough night for Donald Trump because the women won't come out. We got 52%, right? Fifty-two, right? And I'm running against a woman. You know, that's not that easy. A hundred and fifty-five million people are now employed that is, came out this morning, that is the highest level of employment in the history of our country, 155 million, think of that, right?  While the Obama administration in its final year was losing 1,000 manufacturing jobs a month. We've created almost 300,000 new manufacturing jobs. Think of that. Think of that. The tasks for all of us, for everyone here tonight, is to make sure that this great American comeback continues full speed ahead.  We are doing things that are amazing. You know, Make America Great Again, right? Make America Great Again, right? So you know what the new slogan is gonna be? I won't tell you, we've got to keep it secret, except did you ever see so much press? Wow. You know what the new slogan will be? Because I can't use it in three years from now. I can't say -- Very good. I can't use it. I can't go like, in four years and say, Here's my slogan., which is now two and a half years, we'll have to start thinking right. It's getting close, we can't say, Make America Great Again. cause I already did that, right? Right? So, right? So our, not my slogan, our slogan, this is a team. Our new slogan will be -- and you know this is on the assumption that happens, which I'm almost positive, can never be 100% sure. I never like to go too far in advance, but let's assume it's going like it's going, by the way, if we coasted for two and a half years we did a hell of a job. You know that. Fact I was telling some of the guys, let's just coast, because the stock market is up almost 40% since election day, think of that. Almost 40%. Think of that. And by the way that's not rich people, that's for everybody. I mean, you have your 401ks, which are up 42%, 38%, I tell it all the time. I take pictures back with the policemen. I love the policemen, I love the firemen, they're great. Alright, and they're always coming up and saying, Sir, thank you very much. My 401k is up 41%. My wife thinks I'm a genius. They think like they're great investors, okay. But they're up way, way up, and that's good. That's really good. That's what we want. That's what we want. That's what we have to have. We're so proud of this country. But our new slogan, when we start running in -- can you believe it two years from now? is going to be Keep America Great. Exclamation point. Keep America Great. But we can only do that if we elect people who are going to back our agenda and fight for our values, and that is why we have to defeat Nancy Pelosi  and Maxine Waters, a very low IQ individual. Do you ever see her? You never seen a -- you ever see her? We will impeach him, we will impeach the press, but he hasn't done anything wrong. It doesn't matter, we will impeach him, she's a low IQ individual. You can't help her, too early. We will impeach her. But you have Maxine Waters and you have plenty of others. And I mean, Nancy Pelosi, you can't have that. And Conor Lamb Lamb the Sham, right? Lamb the Sham, he's trying to act like a Republican, so he gets -- he won't give me one vote. Look, I don't know him, looks like a nice guy. I hear he's nice-looking. I think I'm better looking than him. I do, I do, I do. And he's slightly younger than me, slightly. No, I heard that, then I saw, he's OK. He's alright. Personally, I like Rick Saccone, and I think he's handsome.  And you did a great job on television today. I watched you, Rick. That was a great interview. That was a great interview. I appreciate it too, but he's really good. Here's the thing, we're dealing with people that want to obstruct. They want to stop us from doing things. We put an infrastructure bill in for $1.7 billion, and I hear they want to stop it. They want to stop DACA. DACA is their issue, but I'm willing to go along, get it done. We've got to get it done, right? Get it done, and besides that, you know, honestly, we need good great workers in our country, because I'm bringing a lot of companies into this country. We're not gonna have workers for it. We have to bring them in, but DACA they're here, they're good people, and the Democrats are trying to not do so. I offered a deal that was so good, you can't refuse, right? Like the mob pictures. I'll give you a deal that's so good, you can't refuse. I made a deal, I gave them a deal so good, they could not refuse. And I did it because I thought they were gonna refuse, and they did, and they're getting killed now by the DACA recipients. They're getting killed. But somebody like Lamb, he's never gonna vote for us. He's now saying -- and I appreciate his nice words about me -- this -- is Trump country, right, so he has to say nice. Okay. He's smart, so he's saying nice things. Here's the problem, as soon as he gets in, he's not gonna vote for us, he's gonna vote the party line he has to. And if he doesn't he's never going to a chairman of a committee, he's now, you know, it's a whole crazy system, but he's going to vote the party line. He doesn't care about us, but for getting your votes he's talking about how much he likes tariffs, which is my baby, and I took a lot of heat over that. But let me tell you all, these countries now are calling up, We don't want the tariffs. What do we have to do? European Union, they kill us. Sounds good. A lot of us came from the European Union, different countries, right? Sounds nice. They kill us on trade, so we put on tariffs and the European Union's out there well we're gonna put, I said you can't go any higher than you are anyway, and they have trade barriers. We can't even sell our farming goods in there, they totally restrict us. So then they say, We want those tariffs taken off. I said, Good. Open up the barriers and get rid of your tariffs, and if you don't do that, we're gonna tax, Mercedes-Benz, we're gonna tax BMW. You want to have money, we want to have money, come into our country, and you know the cars are really the big item. That's the big money item. So when I said that all of a sudden, it's like whoa, let's stop talking with this guy. You know, with the European Union were like $100 billion down because we had stupid politicians doing so pathetic, right? A hundred, think of 100 billion, by the way, we're really -- I've always said 71 billion, but Mexico were 130 billion. That's a real number because nobody includes the VAT tax. Nobody even knows what about taxes, but Mexico charges a 16% VAT tax. So nobody ever talks about it. You know they'd do it. That deal was bad the day they made it because they had a tax and we didn't. So they have a 16% VAT tax. Nobody ever talks about it, but I talk about it. So we're either going to renegotiate NAFTA, and I said, we won't put the tariffs on Mexico and Canada and Canada's brutal, Canada's really tough. They, you know, we have a big deficit with Canada too. They send in timber, they send in steel. They send in a lot of things, but our farmers in Wisconsin are not treated well when we want to send things to them. Hey, and I don't blame them. Why should I blame them? Because they just out-smarted our politicians for decades and I don't mean Obama. I mean all of them. Since Bush the first, and that includes, I mean, that includes a lot of territory. Frankly, Ronald Reagan, you remember, I didn't love his -- I thought he was great. I loved his style, his attitude. He was a great cheerleader for our count -- you know, for the country, but not great on the trade. For many, many years, they've been -- that's where they -- you know. We used to be a nation of tariffs. When other countries would come to the United States, they had a pay for the privilege of taking our product, of taking our jobs. They had a pay, they wanted to come in and sell their product, they had a pay. Today, in China, they sell a car to us, they paid 2.5%. We sell a car in China, which by the way, is almost impossible to do despite the tax, it's 25 %. So why is that 25 and we're 2.5? And that's why we have a trade deficit with China of $500 billion a year? It's no good, but we're changing it and it takes a little while. I'm there a year, a little more than a year, we're changing.  We have to. We have a trade deficit. We have a trade deficit with all countries of the world. Listen to this number, if there's any children in the room, please close your ears. We have a trade deficit of almost $800 billion a year. Now, who makes these deals? So with Mexico -- he says Obama,  Honestly, in all fairness to Obama, it's more than Obama, it's plenty of people, believe me. Plenty of Presidents allowed that to happen, and people that work for the President, so we're gonna get a lot of things straightened away. NAFTA is under work right now, and I think they're going to be very good. And you saw what I did with the tariffs. They said, We don't want to pay tariffs. I said, Let's make a deal on NAFTA. And if you make a decent deal, a fair deal for the American worker, the American people. We will. You have no problem with the tariffs. I said the same thing to the European Union. I said, Look, you're killing us we're losing $100 billion a year. You're not accepting our product. They're not accepting our farm product. I want to help the farmers, and they don't accept it. And I said, Open up your countries. That's countries, they banded together. Why did they band together? To screw the United States on trade, and that's okay, they're allowed, you know, actually here would be called the monopoly, it wouldn't be allowed. But all those countries got together in order to do well on trade with the United States. People don't know that. You know, you hear European Union sounds, Oh, the European Union, sounds so innocent. It's not innocent, they're very tough, they're very smart. Where there's $100 billion a year. They sell stuff into us. We charge them practically, nothing. We sell things into them, no.1. You can't get it through the barriers, they have artificial barriers. That's not a monetary barrier, that's other things, environmental. They come up with things you wouldn't even believe. But we can't get our product in there. So I said, Open up your barriers, get rid of your tariffs and we'll do this. We'll have a nice, fair, open -- and if you don't do that, that's okay. And that's where the cars come in. So, we have a lot of work to do. But I need people that can help me and this guy can really help me.  This guy can really help me,  Rick Saccone, and I've got him too and he's got a tough race and he's got a tough race. I think we won by 22 points, and Rick, you know, look it's a crazy time out there, it's crazy, but I think the Republicans. You know you never hear this. So, I've been -- in fact, I think she's here, Karen Handel, where's Karen, was she here? She was here. Where is she? Did I do a good job, huh, in Atlanta? So, Karen, is this sort of like, around this Karen was down, she started off with a whole group of people. It's a little different voting. She had running for Congress in Atlanta, the Atlanta area, right? So they had a guy, a young guy who spent $34 million. That's still the old time world record, right? Running to be a congressman. They make 150,000 bucks a year. He spent 34 million. There's something going on, right? So Ka-, I didn't know you were here. Somebody said you may be here, that's so great, Karen. So Karen was running with many Republicans. It was like 14, 13 Republicans, which is crazy and Karen was the one I wanted. But that's a lot of Republicans. So Karen ended up with about 14 or 15. This guy ended. He was 58, 58, which meant he would have won the election, there was no more runoff, right? And we came after him, right? We came after that guy and we found out a couple of like, minor things. He didn't live in the district. I heard. They said, Sir, he doesn't live in the district, but nobody cares about that or said really, let's try it on the voter. So, anyway, you have to get 50, in which case the elections over. If you get less than 50, you have a runoff and you take the top two. So Karen was fantastic, but she was with so many Republicans and he was essentially the only Democrat. So I brought him down, in a period of four days, I got no credit for this from these guys, brought him down from 58 to 48. So now he's in a runoff with Karen, so think of it he's at 48 she's at 15. By the time Karen and I finished with this guy, 32 million he spent, and she spent slightly less than that. Okay, she spent like like about 29 million less, right. She spent 29 million less, but by the time we finished, the winner, easily by 5 points, was Karen Handel. . And they love the job she's doing, and I think you're gonna have a good victory now, but the people have gotten to know you and they love you in your area and hope I don't have to go and make speeches all over the place like last night. But we need Karen, and we need, we need our Congressman Saccone. We have to have him. . We have to happen. Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, the only chance she's got to become Speaker, is electing Democrats, and you know what, we don't have a big margin. It's just a very small. If you -- I mean, they're doing a number in your state. You see what they're doing with the congressional districts, they're doing a number, and hopefully the United States Supreme Court will take that case, because this is horrible what they've done. They had state judges that are Democrats, change your voting districts. What kind of stuff is that? What kind of stuff? And it's gonna make it very hard for Republicans that are great Republicans that would easily win, and now it's all changed and it's very unfair. Let's see what happens. It's litigation, it's in court. Let's see what happens, but it's very unfair. The people of Pittsburgh cannot be conned by this guy Lamb. You just can't do it because he's -- again, he's never gonna vote for us. He can say, I love President Trump. I agree with everything he says. You know what, I don't want to meet him, because anybody that says that, I might like him and then Rick is gonna, be very angry at me, right? No, he's going around saying it, but he's not gonna do that stuff. He's not gonna do it. There's no way he's going for the things? That is what he says, I'm not gonna vote for Pelosi. He's not. Now that could be possible, but most people are, most people are, but he says he's not going to do that. He's going to do this to steel, he's going to do that here. Well, the Democrats are opposed to those things. He's weak on crime, he's weak on the border, he's weak on the Second Amendment, but all of a sudden he got strong, and by the way, in terms of abortion, take a look at his record. Take a look. It's amazing he's come back, oh well, take a look at his record, because where his record is, that's where he's going. So Pelosi's party in Congress is full of people, who tell their voters one thing during the election and they go to Washington and vote lockstep. You know the one thing I noticed about them and I've been there now for 14 months, 14 months. Can you be -- but have we done a lot? Yeah. A lot of stuff.  We have done more than any first-term administration in the history of our country, we have. You take a look at what we're going. Regulation, tax cuts, federal judges, a great, great Supreme Court justice corps. Great. Look what we've done. Look what we've done. And you know what, we passed the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. Didn't get one Democrat vote, didn't get one, and by the way, how good is that kicking in, remember? Remember? We passed it. We didn't get one Democrat vote, think of that. Not one. And now they're all, a little, they get a little nervous, that's okay. But we didn't get one, and you know what helped? When AT&T and the big companies came, they started paying thousands and thousands of dollars in bonuses to, you know, millions of people, I think it's up to five million people now, and that was not in the schedule, but they're paying the money out and the people are getting the money, and I'll tell you what, we're so proud of that. But we also got rid of the individual mandate from Obamacare, which basically guts out Obamacare. That'll be next. That'll be next. That's where you pay a lot of money for the privilege of not getting health care. Okay? How do you like that one? How that one made it through court, I will not made it through twice. But you pay a lot of money for the privilege, so we got rid of the individual mandate. Nobody even talks about because the tax bill is so massive, bigger than Reagan and bigger than -- biggest one ever done, and you know they were calling a tax reform. This is where a non-poli"
"Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you, everybody. Thank you. And if you think this crowd is big, you should see right now what's outside. Congratulations.  Hello, Pensacola. What a place. Right here on the Emerald Coast, right? The Emerald Coast in the great state of Florida where we had a tremendous victory, didn't we? Come on.  We are joined by many, many people in the military and great American patriots. Thank you very much.  When you remember the campaign, I said, let me begin by wishing each and every one of you a very Merry Christmas. Right?  And I can think of no better Christmas present for the American people than giving you a massive tax cut. That is what's happening.  And your Senate and your House hopefully very shorty will have those approvals. Those heads will go up and you will be paying a lot less tax. So, congratulations. I hope. They got to vote and I think they will. I can't wait to sign that tax cut great for so many. But great for the middle class. We're going to put it into law. We're going to cap off an incredible first year in office. There has been no first year like this. Or at least just about -- no, I think the answer is no. But I have to be very accurate because of the fake news back there.  Thank you. In our campaign for the presidency, we defied the pundits, the politicians, and the special interests because ours was a movement of the people and it really was. It was a movement of you. It was a movement of the people. It was a movement to make America great again. It's happening. It's happening. And by the way, how are your 401(k)s doing? Not too bad, right?  Over the weekend, I was in New York City. And I love to say hello to our folks in uniform whether it's the military, whether it's law enforcement. And we had people backstage and I always want to take my time. And a man comes up. He was a police officer in New York City. The first time anyone said this to me. He said, Mr. President, I want to thank you. My family thinks I'm a financial genius. My 401(k) is up 39 percent in nine months.  I think it's going to be very hard for somebody to beat us in a few years. Can you imagine now? We are only talking about a few years. All you have to say is, with us it goes up with them, it goes down and that's the end of the election. Right?  Everyone is doing well and it's going to be a lot better. We are going to do better and better. We are going to make our country great again. And we are looking at our country now as America first. America first.  So tonight we are going to speak straight to the American people and cut right through the fake news media. Right through. Right through.  Right through. We're going to speak the plain truth and really the truth that you just want to hear. You have to hear. They don't want to hear. But, and by the way, did you see all the corrections the media has been making? They're saying sorry, we made -- they have been doing that all year. They never apologize. Maybe that comes with being the President. I don't know. They have been apologizing left and right. They took this fraudster from ABC. They suspended him for a month. They should have fired him for what he wrote.  He drove the stock market down 350 points in minutes which, by the way, tells you they really like me, right? When you think of it. And you know what he cost people? And I said to everybody, get yourself a lawyer and sue ABC News. Sue them.  And then CNN apologized just a little while ago. They apologized, oh thank you CNN, thank you so much. You should have been apologizing for the last two years.  True. What a group. What a group. But since the election and then I am going to argue with this. We created 2.2 million new jobs. Factories are coming back to our country. You know we have factories pouring back into our country? Did you ever think you would hear that? I used to tell you that's going to happen. See now there is consequences when companies close up their factories and move to another country, make a product and sell it right through. They have consequences now. And by the way those consequences are getting very steep. And they are going up. There is no more of that stuff. There is no more. In November alone, you saw this today we added 228,000 jobs. I watched these anchors they were devastated. Oh, what's going on? And honestly we have a long way to go. We are going to do much better than this and I have been saying it. Including another 33,000 new jobs in manufacturing. You hear that, right? Hispanic unemployment is the lowest ever recorded. Any Hispanics here? Any Hispanics? Any Hispanics? You guys were great. Remember? They weren't going to vote for me because, I'm going to build the wall but they want the wall, too. They want security.  Oh, we're going to have the wall. Don't worry. They want security. How about the Cuban population in Miami? Well, we have Cubans here tonight, good. Was the number 86 percent in favor of Trump? A tremendous percentage. Total unemployment is now at a 17-year low. Think of that. Not bad. Not bad after 10 months. It's only going to get better. Listen to this one. This is to me maybe the most important because it's all psychological to a large extent and that's what creates great news. Consumer confidence is at 17-year high. Think of that. It was not like that in your last administration. Economic growth last quarter surged to 3.3 percent. You know it. You know where it was, right? When we started, you know where it was? Bingo. 3.3 percent and it's going a lot higher. You know, I used to hear you will never hit three. You will never hit 2.5. You figure maybe 2.3, 2.4. If we didn't have the hurricanes last quarter, we would have hit four percent and everybody back there would have said that's impossible. We had a little -- couple of hurricanes. You heard about it, right? You heard about it? The stock market is hitting an all-time high record for another -- and think of this. Eighty six times since Election Day, 86 times.  It hit a record. Eighty six times. And we're going to keep it going. And then you look at all of the money you folks are making. Oh, I wish I could take 10 or 15 percent. But I think you are not going to do that. But it's getting bigger and bigger. Your pensions are getting bigger and bigger. Your pension funds, all of those things are happening. And wait until you see what we're doing. Tax cuts. But wait until you see what we are doing with healthcare. Wait until you see. You're going to be happy. Not the ObamaCare nightmare. Not ObamaCare nightmare. It's not that nightmare where your premiums are a disaster, right? They are a disaster. Now we have it going you watch we have some very good things happening with respect to healthcare. And the taxes are a part of it. And you will see what happens right after taxes, you will going to see what happens. Because with taxes something great is going to get announced. We're getting rid of the individual mandate. That individual mandate.  Where you pay a lot of money for the privilege of not having to have insurance or healthcare. So you pay for the privilege of not getting taken care of. Isn't that a wonderful thing? And we're going to repeal it.  Since the election, we have created more than $5 trillion in new economic wealth just in the stock market alone. We are not including real estate and other values, $5 trillion. And we are finally rebuilding our country, defending our citizens and fighting for our great American workers.  We're putting America first by renegotiating trade deals. We are renegotiating NAFTA. We are renegotiating our horrendous deal with South Korea. I kept you out of the TPP which would have been a total disaster for you and for everybody else. And we're making individual deals with these countries. You know, when you get tied into 12 countries or 22 countries or 18 countries, you are stuck. It's a spider web. It's like this. If you have 16 good ones and two bad ones as an example, you can't do it. You can't get out. When you have a deal one-on-one. Nice simple deal. We have a deal with Japan or we have a deal with South Korea or we have a deal with whoever it may be if they don't treat us right, we send them what's called a letter of termination.  These people always say, oh TPP. You have all these countries tied. And you can't terminate. You are tied into all the good ones.  Thank you very much. I appreciate it. So, you can't do what you have to do. So you send out a letter of termination. You give them a 60- day notice or a 30-day notice or even a six month notice. They then come back because we're the big piggy bank that everybody likes robbing. The whole world robs it. So they then come back and they say, can we negotiate? Can we make a better deal than we had in the first place, right? But you can't do that when you have many countries tied in. You can't -- I call it a spider's web. There is a lot of Washington lobbyists, bureaucrats, politicians who don't want to see things changed. They have made fortune. Areas around Washington, D.C. are the richest areas in this country. You saw it the other night. A list came out. We have five areas that are among the richest areas in the country. That's because everybody is making a fortune and people outside of that area are paying for the money they are making we're not going to have it. They like things the way things used to be. They don't like it so much now. Although, I must tell you they are doing well also. They're doing well also. Their stocks are going up. I don't know if there is anything I can do to prevent it for those people. But they call themselves the resistance. Do you ever see these signs resist. Resist.  I love these guys. Look at these guys, blacks for Trump. I love you. I love you. I love you.  By the way, now that you bring it up black home ownership just hit the highest level it's ever been in the history of our country. Congratulations.  Oh, these resisters resist. Hillary resisted and do you know what happened? She lost the election in a landslide.  But you know what they are really resisting? They are resisting the will of the American people. That's what they are resisting.  Look, it's being proven we have a rigged system. It doesn't happen so easy. But this system, there will be a lot of changes. This is a rigged - - this is a rigged system. This is a sick system from the inside. And, you know, there is no country like our country but we have a lot of sickness in some of our institutions and we're working very hard. We have a lot of them straightened out. But we do have, we really do. We have a rigged system in this country that we have to change it. Terrible. Terrible. They are resisting progress. They're resisting change. Because the only thing they really care about is protecting what they have been able to do, which is really control the country and not to your benefit. By the way, wages starting to go up. First time in 20 years starting to go up. That's all going to happen. That's all going to happen.  That's all going to happen. That's just a part of what's going on. But I am going to do something better than that. We are going to have choice. Now, we have choice in education now. We are starting that. Right? And I thought of it the other day. We're going to have choice in jobs so that you don't have one job and hang on even though you don't like it. You can have choice where can you take five jobs, six jobs, seven jobs, pick the one you like at the most money. That's what is starting to happen because the jobs are coming in. That's what is starting to happen. Thanks to General Mattis and the military leaders and the allies. Mad Dog. Mad Dog Mattis.  Mad Dog Mattis. Thanks to Mad Dog Mattis that we have great military leaders. ISIS is being dealt one brutal defeat after another. You see it. Not only are we defeating these killers, these savage killers, horrible, horrible, you don't even want to say people. These are savage killers. Over there but we sure as hell don't want them to come over here. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.  You know, they come back to some countries and they come in. We are making it a very difficult process. We had such weakness. They go out, kill people. And then they come back and they go back home to mom and dad. Okay? Before they went nutso and start over here, we are making it very difficult. You see what's being happens. We are watching every single one. We have thousands of people right now under surveillance. Surveillance. That sounds familiar. That sounds familiar. Remember what I suggested something like that everyone said Trump, why does he say? Well, it turns out I was right about that one, wasn't I?  America is being respected again abroad and we are taking care of our citizens at home. And we're going to have safety. And we have got a lot more now. We are getting rid of the M.S. 13 animals.  We're going to have safety again. Because America is more than just a place on a map. America is a nation, America is a family. America is ours to love and to cherish and to protect and to take care of and that's what we're doing, we're going to take care of this country for our children and our grandchildren and our great grandchildren. And we're not going to let people come in to our country who are going to destroy our country.  And that may or may not be politically correct. But honestly, I don't care. We have to do the right thing. We have to do the right thing.  Our agenda is pro-family, pro-police, pro-worker, and 100 percent pro- American.  That's why I recently withdrew the United States from the United Nations plan for global governance of immigration and refugee policy. No borders. They have a plan, no borders. I heard about it recently. I said, what are you talking about, no borders? No borders. No borders. Everybody can come in. If you don't mind, I rejected that plan. Is that okay?  I told them not only do we want no borders. We want the strongest borders you have ever seen. We're going to have such borders. We'll have borders on top of borders. American is a sovereign country. We set our immigration rules. We don't listen to foreign bureaucrats. We don't listen to other countries telling us how we should be running our immigration. Thank you very much.  We're also getting smart and tough on trade. I have been talking about this for a long time. It's one of the reasons I'm here. One of the reasons I'm president. We are renegotiating the disastrous trade agreements of NAFTA, of South Korea, of so many others. We are making great deals. We're going to hopefully keep NAFTA but there is a chance we won't. And that's okay. That's okay. How many factories have left for Mexico? How many factories?  So we right now have a trade deficit with Mexico of $71 billion and that doesn't include all the drugs that pour in over the border because we don't have a wall, et cetera. Okay? $71 billion. Seventy one billion. So, we have, think of it, we have a trade deficit with Mexico of $71 billion. We have a pretty good trade deficit with Canada. They were saying, we have a surplus with Canada. I said, no, and I like the prime minister very much. Prime Minister Trudeau, nice guy. Good guy. No, I like him. But we had a meeting. He said no, no. You have a trade surplus. I said no, we don't. He said no, no, you have a trade surplus. I said, Mr. Prime Minister, we do not. He said how, do you know? I said, because we don't have a surplus with anybody. We have the worst deals. He said I'm telling you that Canada has a deficit with the United States. I told my people, in front of a lot of people. I said, go out and check. And he was right except he forgot two categories, lumber, timber and energy. Other than that, he was right. When you add them all together, we actually have a $71 billion deficit with Canada. Right? So, he forgot a couple of categories that he didn't want to mention. I heard it with other countries too. I just got back from Asia. I brought back $300 billion worth of deals. Worth of deals.  And that number is going to go a lot higher. And these are numbers that are going to produce a lot of jobs in our country. And that's what we have to be doing. We are going to end the theft of American intellectual property, crack down on China's trade abuses, and confront countries that cheat, of which many of them are in that category sadly. We will buy back our country. We will take back our country. We will make those great trade deals and we will have unbelievable amounts of jobs created and factories created.  And we will do what other countries do. We will start buying American. We want to buy our product. And we will start hiring American. And we will say American and be proud of it and that's what's happening more and more. That's why I see all those red hats and those white hats. I love those hats.  That is why one of my very first acts as president was to withdraw the United States from the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. Had to do it. We have also cancelled the one job killing regulation that you see after another. One after another, beating the mark of any previous president. Now, we have -- there was a great article in the ""Wall Street Journal"""" the other day You know who was right up there? Honest Abe Lincoln. Can you believe it?  He was a regulation cutter. Can you believe it? Abe Lincoln was a regulation cutter. Who would've known that? I said, you mean I beat Abraham Lincoln? That's pretty good for 10 months. I don't know if regulations sound so glamorous but tell you it's very important. But we have a lot of others. We have statutory requirements where you have to give a 90-day notice and then another 90-day notice, then you have a cooling-off period then you have to give a 30-day notice. They're all in the works. And you going to see a lot more cutting of regulations. But we've done more than any other president and it's not even close - and we haven't even started. And as promised - and I used to come out here - I've been here three times - I love it. I just keep coming back. I just keep coming back.  Oh boy, oh boy. I'll tell you. When we were doing well during that beautiful election night - when we were doing well all over Florida I said, was the Pensacola area included yet? And they said, no. I said, guess what, we just won that election.  Right. And as promised, remember? I announced that I would withdraw America - the United States - from the horrible, for us - good for other countries - it's great for other countries - from the horrible Paris Climate Accord.  Cost us a fortune. So, China doesn't start until around 2030, I think. Russia doesn't have to go back to like a recent date. Go back to somewhere in the 1990s which was a high-pollution time. Other countries we end up giving money to. This would've been one of the great catastrophes - and I could come back into the deal at a much better price. They'd love me back in. I could come back into the Paris Accord - and I like the people. I really like Emmanuel. I like so many of the people involved but I could come back - it's like - I don't get it. I don't see it. I want clean air. I want crystal clear and clean water and I want things that they won't have - and I don't want to pay the kind of numbers that you're talking about. If we stayed with those numbers, we would have had to close factories and businesses in order to qualify by 2025. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, we're violating the accord. In the meantime, some of those countries are spewing stuff out that you wouldn't believe - and we would be closing up. Now we could maybe change the deal but then we get sued by all the groups that sue. You know in China - they don't see China; nobody sues. With us, they sue. I approved - immediately thereafter we took office the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipeline; right? 48,000 jobs. We've lifted the restrictions on American energy including shale, oil, natural gas and clean beautiful coal of which we have 1000 years of supply and we're putting miners back to work. Did you see West Virginia? I love West Virginia. West Virginia. I love West Virginia. So, West Virginia people were saying - trouble - coal will never come back. In the meantime, they're buying it in Vietnam from us. The president of Vietnam said, that is the finest coal we've ever purchased. They're buying it from us. So, West Virginia - the numbers just have - great Governor of West Virginia. The numbers just come out - West Virginia had the biggest percentage increase in GDP of any state in our union except for Texas; it was second. How's that? How's that? They said, oh coal will never come back. Now we're opening up lines and we're drilling and we're doing all sorts of things. And the windmills are wonderful, but you know what, when the wind doesn't blow they really do cause problems. We have no energy this week - well, hopefully the wind will start blowing pretty soon. We are pursuing American energy dominance. And by the end of this year we will be totally self-sufficient. we will be major exporters of energy. We will take in massive amounts of money. We will start paying off our $20 trillion in debt.  My administration is also leading the charge to rebuild our military. Our military, right?  We're supporting our troops and their wonderful military families, including those right here in the cradle of Naval aviation, the home of the legendary Blue Angels, people don't realize that.  By the way, can those people fly or what? How about Naval Air Station Pensacola? Good place, right? And it's really time. This isn't a Republican thing or Democratic thing or anything. It's time for Democrats in Congress to drop the threats of shutdowns of government and support a clean appropriations bill that fully supports and funds our military. We can't play games anymore.  We can't play games. And don't forget, we make the greatest missiles, the greatest military equipment anywhere in the world. Nobody is close. And what does it also mean? And to me it's secondary in this case, but what does it also mean? Jobs, jobs. But we are building our military stronger and by the time I decide to go off into the wild blue yonder, you're going to have the strongest military this country has ever had by far.  It's wrong and dangerous for congressional Democrats to hold troop funding hostage for amnesty, letting people pour into our country, we don't know who they are. We don't know where they come from. You saw what happened with beautiful Kate Steinle. This guy, he said he didn't know it was a gun. Oh, he didn't know. Oh, he didn't know. He didn't know it was a gun. That's his new line. Do you notice the federal government came in and brought another suit against him, right?  We'll come after him. That was a total miscarriage of justice. He didn't know it was a gun. The real changes that we are facing are the drugs and the gangs pouring into our country, the millions of people overstaying their visas, chain migration that cost taxpayers billions and billions of dollars, and sanctuary cities that set free violent criminal aliens all over our country and protect them.  People come in and they are not necessarily good like the man that ran over -- the animal that ran over many people in New York City the other day. You saw that, two months ago. He runs over people. Goes on a beautiful -- I know it so well, the West Side Highway. I know it so well. So beautiful. People running, jogging, trying to get in shape. He killed many people, ran them over. Chain migration. According to chain migration, he may have as many as 22 to 24 people that came in with him, his grandfather, his grandmother, his mother, his father, his brothers, his sisters. We have to end chain migration. We have to end chain migration.  I mean, you go to Kate, who was such a beautiful young American woman, killed on a pier in San Francisco in the prime of her life. She was killed by this guy, an illegal alien who had been deported five times and convicted seven times of felonies. I guess they weren't allowed to mention this in court. They weren't allowed to mention. Don't worry, we're right in there. But he was roaming free to threaten innocent Americans like Kate because of our porous borders and because San Francisco is a sanctuary city. In other words, a city run by politicians who would rather protect criminal aliens than American citizens. I mean, let me give you another example. The city of Chicago, what the hell is going on in Chicago? There are those that say that Afghanistan is safer than Chicago, OK? What is going on? Do you know what's wrong with Chicago? Weak, ineffective politicians, Democrats that don't want to force restrictions. And don't -- and by the way, Chicago, for those of you that are going to say, guns, guns, Chicago has the toughest gun laws in the United States, OK? Just in case you were thinking about -- you know, they immediately say, oh, you have got to take away -- well, Chicago has the toughest gun laws in the United States. So we're asking Democrats in Congress to cease their obstruction and do the right thing, end sanctuary cities.  Stop the carnage. Save the innocent lives. We have also begun the process of building the wall on the southern border.  And we are empowering our immigration officers to do their job. And they are doing a great job. ICE and Border Patrol agents are working so hard, and they endorsed us for the election. I say us, because it's really not me, it's us all together, it's us, it's us, we are a group, a big group, a big beautiful group. All you have to do is look around here.  I just said just look around, and the first thing I see is that big beautiful merry Christmas sign. I mean, can you believe it?  Remember I told you two years ago when we started, I said -- and it was summer, but I said, you know, we are going to say merry Christmas, but let me just tell you, the department stores, right, they had the beautiful red walls, they had snowflakes all over the place, they had everything. Only one thing missing, the words merry Christmas. They are using those words again. Do you notice? They are using those words again.  But one by one we are finding the illegal alien drug dealers, the gang members, the thieves, the criminals, and the killers preying on our children, preying on everybody, and we are throwing them the hell out of our country or we are putting them in prison.  And because our borders now are strong as they should be, and they are going to get much stronger, we will not let these people back in.  It's time for Congress to adopt a pro-American immigration agenda. Every member of Congress should be asked where they stand on these issues. Blocking funds to sanctuary cities. I don't want to give sanctuary cities money. Passing Kate's law to put repeat offenders behind bars for a long period of time.  Increasing the number of ICE officers, who are fantastic, and Border Patrol officers so we can dismantle vile criminal gangs like, as I said, MS-13, animals.  Ensuring that new immigrants to our country are financially self- sufficient and will not be on welfare the day they come in.  And as I said, ending chain migration. We want a system that is merit-based. They come in on merit. They don't come in a lottery system. How about the lottery system, folks? Do you see that?  That's the guy in New York City, the lottery system, where they put names in a bin. You know, you think these countries are legit when they do their lottery system. So what they do, I would say, but more than just saying, they take their worst and they put them in the bin. And then when they pick the lottery, they have the real worst in their hands, oh, here we go. And we end up getting them. No more lottery system. We are going to end that. We have already started the process.  We want people coming into our country who love our people, support our economy, and embrace our values. It's time to get our priorities straight. This guy is screaming, we want Roy Moore. He is right.  Democrats in Congress want open borders, higher taxes, and government-run health care that doesn't work. Costs a fortune, doesn't work. They are soft on crime. And they want to suffocate our economy with socialist-style regulation. Raise your taxes through the sky, they don't want to vote for our tax cuts because they want the -- they want tax increases. That's why we need a Republican in the House. We need a Republican in the Senate. We need more of them.  And by the way, just so I can satisfy this gentleman out there. How many people here are from the great state of Alabama?  Whoa. Well, I have to say this, look, I have to. We have to be fair. So did you see what happened today? You know the yearbook? Did you see that? There was a little mistake made. She started writing things in the yearbook. Oh, what are we going to do? Gloria Allred, anytime you see her you know something's going wrong. We cannot afford -- this country, the future of this country, cannot afford to lose a seat in the very, very close United States Senate. We can't afford it, folks. We can't.  We can't afford to have a liberal Democrat who is completely controlled by Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. We can't do it. Can't do it.  His name is Jones and he is their total puppet. And everybody knows it. He will never ever vote for us. We need somebody in that Senate seat who will vote for our make America great again agenda, which involves tough on crime, strong on borders, strong on immigration We want great people coming into our country. Building the wall. Strengthening our military. Continuing our great fight for our veterans. I love our veterans.  We -- right? We love our veterans. We want conservative judges like Judge Gorsuch on the Supreme Court. Doing a great job, too. We want people that are going to protect your gun rights, great trade deals instead of the horrible deals.  And we want jobs, jobs, jobs. So get out and vote for Roy Moore.  Do it. Do it. Do it. Working with Republicans in Congress, we have already signed 88 pieces of legislation. We get no credit. They always say, well, you know -- President Trump really needs this tax bill, because he hasn't passed any legislation. Well, so far, in 10 months, we've passed more during this period of time than any other President in the history of our country. And the second -- let's call runner-up -- is Harry Truman was second. So we passed all of this, including, including the long-awaited Veterans Accountability Act. You know what that is, right? David Shulkin, our Secretary, has done a great job. The VA was a mess, so many parts of our country... Hey, they left me with North Korea. They left me with a mess in the Middle East. They left me with Afghanistan, which is -- was a disaster. We make a lot of progress in Afghanistan just like we have with getting ISIS out of Iraq, getting ISIS out of Syria, knocking the hell out of them. They left me with a mess. But we're cleaning up the mess, we're cleaning it up, and with time, we'll have it spinning like a top. For decades, veterans have asked for a law to hold corrupt and incompetent employees and the VA accountable, but it never happened. Then, we got it done, this piece of legislation... for decades, they wanted it. You couldn't fire anybody at the VA if they were sadists, if they were horrible people, if they wouldn't show up to work, you couldn't fire anybody. Now, we look at them, they're no good, we say you're fired, get out of here.  And I must tell you: I can't believe that Arnold Schwarzenegger bombed so badly on The Apprentice. My poor, beautiful, show. It was so successful. We get a big movie star and he can't pull it off. We are respecting Americans heroes, and rebuilding America's standing. All over the world, they're respecting us "
"Thank you very much. Wow. Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you everybody. I love this place. You know, we set every record in Alabama. I love Alabama. It's special, thank you very much.  Well, I am, I'm thrilled to be here with a really great person that I've gotten to know, Luther Strange, and with the hardworking, patriotic citizens of this great state. You have some football games tomorrow, but we're going to have a lot of fun and then you're going to win at football tomorrow.  I love this state and I love the people of this state. They've been so good to me. And we are producing, we are really producing.  Thank you. Thank you. And on Tuesday, we're going to send a real fighter and a real good guy from Alabama to the United States Senate on a permanent basis.  And we have another great person in our audience tonight, Richard Shelby. Where is Richard? Where is he? Richard?  Where's Richard? Thank you, Richard. Stand up so they can see you, Richard. Fantastic. Thank you, Richard.  Respected man, I will tell you. He's respected and loved in the Senate. He's only been there for, what, 34 years or something like that, right? But he loves the people of Alabama, too. And like all of you, Luther Strange knows the true source of America's strength. It's God, it's family and it's country.  And Luther is going to be taking over for a man that you all love. What's his name? Senator Jeff Sessions, you love Jeff Sessions and he's doing a good job.  He is doing a good job. We have him very busy watching the borders. A lot of things are happening. But Luther is taking over for Jeff hopefully and you are going to be so impressed with what we're going to do in Washington. But before we begin, I want to send our thoughts and prayers to the people of Texas and Louisiana and Florida and Georgia and Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and all of the other communities that have recently been ravaged by storms and by floods.  And you took such great care of those people, you really did.  I said, you know, Governor, you're the fastest-growing state anywhere in the world this week. But it was -- you really did, you did a great job. And your governor is doing a great job, too, by the way. When one part of America hurts, we all hurt. We grieve over all that's been lost, but we're also inspired by the incredible strength and spirit and resilience of our people. Together, we will recover, rebuild and return bigger, better, stronger than ever before. It's going to happen. It's going to happen quickly, quickly, better. Right?  We also send our prayers to the people of Mexico. They got hit hard by a devastating earthquake, taken a lot of lives, a lot more than they even thought. And I've spoken with the president of Mexico and we pledged our total support. We have crews in there right now lifting up that heavy concrete. And it's a rough sight, it's a rough sight. We've got a lot of people we sent down with a lot of big equipment, but that's a tough go. It's a really tough thing to look at and to see and to see the sadness. But that was bad. I've just come from a very productive week at the United Nations General Assembly.  Where we've been working with our friends and allies to pursue a future of prosperity and security and peace. And we've got some really good people that I know and have tremendous relationships and we have some really, really bad people and we're going to take care of the bad people. It's about time. We're going to take care of the bad people.  It's one of the greatest honors of my life to represent the American people on that world stage. And I will tell you, the world is starting to respect the United States of America again.  As I said during my address to the United Nation, I will always defend America's interests above all else. I'm here for you, I'm not here for global interests . We're not here for the rest of the globe.  And we want to treat the rest of the globe right. And, you know, when I say America first everyone was saying, gee, and I never liked it from the standpoint that if you're in another country you want your country to be first by the leader, right? So nobody really understood. For years they've said America first, although I'm the one that really means it, there's a big difference.  And I said, look, it's going to be America first. We're going to renegotiate these trade deals. We're bringing a lot of people back. We're bringing companies back. You see it in Alabama. You see it in Alabama.  But I'm not going to worry so much about other countries. I want to treat them with respect, I want to treat them good and I want their people to fight for them just like I'm going to fight. But we're going to be like your football teams, we're going to win all the time, we're going to win. Believe me.  I believe the best path to a more peaceful world are proud, independent and sovereign nations that serve and respect their own people. When you look at what's going on in the world, you have so many where they don't respect their people. But we want nations that cooperate together to create better for all people. That's what we're all about, all people. And we can't have madmen out there shooting rockets all over the place.  And by the way, ""Rocket Man"""" should have been handled a long time ago.  He should have been handled a long time ago by Clinton. I won't mention the Republicans Why did this -- you know, this is a different time. This should have been handled eight years ago and four years ago and 15 years ago and 20 years ago and 25 years ago. This shouldn't be handled now. But I'm going to handle it because we have to handle it.  Little ""Rocket Man."""" We're going to do it because we really have no choice. We really have no choice. Now And I want to tell you something, and I'm sure he's listening because he watches every word. And I guarantee you one thing, he's watching us like he never watched anybody before, that I can tell you, that I can tell you.  And maybe something gets worked out and maybe it doesn't. Personally, I'm not sure that it will. Other people like to say, oh, we want peace. You know, they've been saying now for 25 years, oh, we want peace, we want peace. And then he goes and just keeps going, going, going. Well, maybe something gets worked out and maybe it doesn't. But I can tell you one thing, you are protected, OK? You are protected. Nobody is going to mess with our people.  Nobody is going to play games. Nobody is going to put our people in that kind of danger. Nobody.  And Japan and South Korea are right up there with us. And by the way, many other countries, many, many other countries, they're right up there with us. And I have to tell you, I made a friend in China, President Xi, and yesterday he basically took the banking industry away from North Korea. Never been done before.  Never been done. That's based on relationship. Relationship is very good. But we're dealing with somebody that we'll figure out he may be smart, he may be strategic and he may be totally crazy. But you know what? No matter what he is, we're going to handle it, folks, believe me. We're going to handle it.  The foundation for progress begins at home with a government that protects and defends our citizens. And that's what we have to do. That is why I'm here tonight to ask the good people of Alabama to send Luther Strange to the United States Senate so he can defend your interests, fight for your values and always put America first. Go out and get out the vote!  But I'm going to tell you, I'll just tell you this quick, crazy story. So why do I like Luther? Because, you know, I have a lot of friends and some of them called, do you mind if I go for the other candidate? I said really you can, I mean, some of them are working for me and they feel and that's fine. Of course, they may not have a job on Monday, but these are my -- right, Richard? We may have to get rid of a few of them. I've already gotten rid of a few of them. But they're good people. No, they're good people. But I'll tell you what happened. The first go around on health care, I said, you know, for seven years we've been hearing repeal and replace Obamacare, right? For seven years I've been hearing repeal and replace. So I'm very much involved. You know, they like to say, well, Mr. Trump, President Trump sat in the Oval Office and didn't -- I'm on the phone screaming at people all day long for weeks. They gave me a list of 10 people that were absolute noes. These are 10 Republican senators. Now, John McCain's list...  John McCain was not on the list, so that was a totally unexpected thing, terrible. Honestly terrible. Repeal and replace because John McCain, if you look at his campaign, his last campaign, was all about repeal and replace, repeal and replace. So he decided to do something different and that's fine. And I say we still have a chance to -- oh, we're going to do it eventually, we're going to do it eventually. With Luther and everyone we're going to do it. But I have to tell you this story because we're here tonight for Luther Strange. I'm here sort of for two. I'm here for Luther and I'm actually here, it's a Friday night, I really do love the people of Alabama because you've treated me so good.  In fact, I said, I don't want to speak negatively, I said, though, that if I lose this election, maybe I'll end up moving to Alabama or Kentucky or, like, some states.  I mean, nice to go where people love you and where you love them because it's special. So here's what happened. Here's what happened. But we never want to lose, right, despite that. We don't want to lose because we have a great agenda. And by the way, we're doing a lot of work, we're getting a lot of things done. They hate to admit it. Including we have a Supreme Court justice, Judge Gorsuch, who will save how about a thing called your Second Amendment, right. OK, remember that?  If crooked Hillary got elected, you would not have a Second Amendment, believe me. You'd be handing in your rifles. You'd be saying here, here, here they are.  You'd be turning over your rifles. You've got to speak to Jeff Sessions about that.  So here's what happened with Luther. So Luther, I get this list, 10 names of people that are absolute total noes. And there were good people, a lot of them. By the way, in all fairness, Rand Paul was on that list. They said don't even waste your time calling him. He voted twice yes, OK? He was very good. And I haven't given up on him because I think he may come around, OK? Wouldn't it be ironic if he took John McCain's place and they definitely do not like each other. Wouldn't that be ironic? That would be very ironic for those of you that know the inner workings of the Senate. So with Luther, so I have a list and one of the names is Luther Strange. And I know he's the senator from Alabama, but I don't know him, I met him once. I said that is the tallest human being I've ever seen. I'm tall. I'm tall. I never saw something -- he's, like, he should be on the New York Nicks, they could use him. So that's why I call him ""Big Luther OK. And I'll get a vote or I won't, whatever, but brutal, brutal. You know what that is, folks, right? It's called brutality. I call another one, I say, Senator, we need your vote, I know you're opposed to it, but I -- well, you know, I think I can get there, but you have to do me a favor. You have to see my brother and his wife, they love you and they want to have dinner with you and they want to have breakfast with you and lunch, then after you're finished with them, how about we'll go out for a picnic someplace on the White House lawn and then after that maybe we'll start talking about it. I say, oh, my, oh, it was brutal. You have no idea. OK. Now I call Luther Strange. I say, oh, I've got to call this guy and he's a no, right? And I say, Senator, I need your help. I said I've got to get your vote on health care. He says you've got it.  I said, what do you mean I have it? Because I've just been hammered by all of these people. Right? What do you mean I have it? He said, sir, I was for you right from the beginning, I knew you were going to win, I knew you were going to win the whole thing. I've always been for you, my family has always been for you. And honestly, Mr. President, if you want my vote you have it. I said, do I have to come and meet you someplace? Do I have to have dinner with your family? I think his wife, by the way, is fantastic. But I said, do I have to have dinner with you and your wife? No, sir, you don't have to have anything. I've supported you from the beginning and you shouldn't even waste anymore time talking to me. Mr. President, you have my total support. I went home and told my wife that's the coolest thing that's happened to me in six months. OK? It's true. It's a true story.  And then time goes by. And he voted and then, of course, you know, John McCain came in and he went thumbs down at 3:00 in the morning.  Oh, do I know so much, folks, I could tell you. It was sad. And we had a couple of other senators, but, you know, at least we knew where we stood there. That was, like, really a horrible thing. Honestly, that was a horrible, horrible thing that happened to the Republican Party. That was a horrible thing. So anyway, so time goes by and I see Luther's in a race. And people are saying he's friendly. Whether you like Mitch McConnell or not, doesn't matter, but they're saying he's friendly with Mitch. He doesn't even know Mitch McConnell. He was just there for a few months. And they've put that mantle around his neck. And I told Mitch I'd like to say this. You know, I don't like to, but I'm telling you he doesn't know Mitch McConnell at all. Luther is a tough, tough cookie. He doesn't deal with and kowtow to anybody. So they put it around. So all of a sudden, I see he's down in the race by a lot. And I said, man, that's really unfair. They were giving him a bum rap because he happened to be in the Senate. They were giving him a bum rap. And I remember the call. And by the way, the other people that I called, and they're all fine, but you don't even remember. The dinners, you don't even remember any of it. You remember one sentence: Sir, don't even waste your time talking anymore, you have a lot of business to do, you have my vote. This was a definite no. And I said that's the coolest thing and I remembered it. And I called him. And I checked and he was down because of being saddled with stuff. He was down by quite a bit. And I said I'm going to endorse you. And he didn't believe it. He said you would do that? I said, yeah, I'm going to do that. I shouldn't be doing it. The last thing I want to do is be involved in a primary, OK? I could be sitting home right now getting to watch some of the games tomorrow, getting ready, right? But seriously, the last thing I wanted to do is get -- but I'll never forget the way he did that. It was really cool. So what happened is I called him and I said, you know, I want to -- first of all, how are you doing, how are you doing? And he said, honestly I'm down a little bit, but I think we're going to -- I said I think you're going to come back, too, Luther. I think you're going to come back and you're going to kick everyone's ass and you're going to do great, you're going to do great.  Because he got saddled with things that he should not have gotten saddled with. So he started off here, he was in third or fourth, he went to third, second and now it's, like, almost pretty even, right? And I called him up a week ago and I said, you know, I think you're down by a few points, but I'm going to come to Alabama and I'm going to make a speech for you on Friday.  And such a true story. And as soon as we announced -- you know, you look at this arena. You know, the media, the fake news I call it, the worst, the fake news...  ...they won't show this. You know, they'll say Donald Trump spoke before a small crowd in Alabama last night. It was a small crowd, very unenthusiastic crowd, it was a terrible evening. No, these are among the most dishonest people. I really mean it. These are among the most dishonest.  For instance, look at the crowd. I'd love to have them show the crowd, but they don't show the crowd, they show me the whole night. I go home, I say, Melania -- and by the way, she's become very popular, hasn't she? She's become very popular.  And, I mean, she respects the White House, we love the White House. They actually said about me that I called the White House a dump. I think the White House is one of the most beautiful buildings I've ever seen. And I speak of it with reverence. And they said that and they wouldn't retract it. And I hated it because I speak so well, I love the White House. But my wife respects the White House greatly. So when she leaves the plane, we're going to Texas where they had the hurricane, and she leaves the plane and she's dressed appropriately for the White House, you know, because we respect the White House a lot. And she's wearing high heels, like many of you would do. And they went after her. But she didn't know. And then when she got out in the plane in Texas she was wearing sneakers which she had with her.  And they know it was dishonest, but that's the way it is. They said she wore high heels. You know, she's going to go into the floods. She's going to go into the floods with high heels. But she has become very popular. But I have to say this. So Luther did that for me. And I remembered Luther. We have to be loyal in life, you know. There's something called loyalty with these folks.  And I might have made a mistake and I'll be honest I might have made a mistake. Because, you know, here's a story, if Luther doesn't win, they're not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time. They're going to say Donald Trump, the president of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line. It is a terrible, terrible moment for Trump. This is total embarrassment. I mean, these are bad people. And by the way, both good men, both good men. And you know what? And I told Luther, I have to say this, if his opponent wins, I'm going to be here campaigning like hell for him.  But I have to say this, and you understand this and just look at the polls, Luther will definitely win.  You know what I'm saying. Roy has a very good chance of not winning in the general election. It's all about the general. Don't forget, we don't stop here. You have an election coming up the day this is over. So this is over on Tuesday. On Wednesday morning, the new race begins. You've got to beat a Democrat. Luther is going to win easily and Roy's going to have a hard time winning. But I will be backing him if he wins. I will be backing him, OK? I'll tell you that.  And just like I backed Huntsville -- because, you know, if you look at Huntsville, billions and billions of dollars from the and to the Army missile defense, what you're going -- how important. By the way, by the way, how important are those words now when you hear ""missile defense?"""" Thank you very much Again, if the other candidate had won against me, that would have gone way down. It was going way down. You don't know what we're doing. We're rebuilding the military at a level to which it's never been before, we're rebuilding.  But that would have gone way, way down. And then you look at, as an example, the new FBI facility that's being build. Great, great. You look at NASA, how about NASA? Billions of dollars.  And Richard Shelby, by the way, has been a big help on this, I have to tell you, a big help.  He's been a big help. But I will say this. We're spending a tremendous amount of money in Alabama and you are doing great. And as long as I'm president, you are going to have so much money spent here. And you know what? Lots of other states also. We're bringing back jobs. We're bringing back companies, companies are not building in other areas, in some cases they've already started the plant and they're not, they're coming back.  I'm renegotiating NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made. It's one of the worst trade deals ever made.  We stopped other trade deals. We are doing a job. We are -- I'll tell you what, we have jobs and companies pouring back into this country like they haven't seen, the lowest unemployment in almost 17 years.  The most number of jobs. The most number of jobs in the history of our country. Now, with all of that being said, we have a lot of people that want to work, we have a lot of people that have given up on finding jobs. Those people are going to be taken care of. That's one of the reasons that we, we as a group, that's why we won. One of the reasons. I think we won because of the military. I think we won because of the vets. I think we won because of the evangelicals. I mean, take a look at that, right?  But I had to tell that story about Luther because, you know what, you go back and tell it, I thought it was really cool. So I said I'll be there. And then I saw some things that I didn't like. He was down a little further than I liked. I said I'm not sure. And I said, Luther, you have got what it takes. You have really got it and let's go. And that was two months ago. And you've got yourself an even race. If you guys go out and vote, if he gets out the vote, you're going to win. You're going to have a great senator.  You're going to have a great senator. And he won't only be great, he'll be the tallest senator in the history of the United States Senate. It's OK, that's not so bad, right?  And Shelby's pretty tall, too, by the way. But he is going to be great because he's tough on crime, he's tough on borders.  Don't worry, don't even think about it. And you know who I have here tonight? General John Kelly who headed up homeland security.  And what a job he did on the borders. Where's General? Where is he? Where is he? General, come up here quick. Come here. Come here. Four-star, come here, come, come, come, come, come.  This guy, what a great man this is. No games, you know? You know the expression? There's no games being played. Four-star Marine, there are very few, four-star general.  He just wants to work. He's done a great job. Four-star Marine, that's good. But what he did on the borders, and this is without the wall -- by the way, the wall is happening, folks, OK. Believe me, the wall is happening.  In fact, you probably saw, you know, we have a wall up there now and we're renovating it already, it's being made pristine, perfect, just as good as new, although we may go a little bit higher than that, but that's OK. And we're building samples of the new wall. You know, it has to be a see-through wall. I don't know if you know this, frankly, I didn't know it until about a year ago, as much as I say. If you can't have vision through it you don't know who's on the other side. Let's say we build a pre-cast concrete wall and now we have people on the other side. Literally, I was given an example. It's so bad, it's going to stop drugs, it's going to stop a lot of bad things because the drug epidemic in this country is out of control, we're going to stop it. And I called the other day, I spoke to your governor. I said, how are you doing? She said, well, we have about 17 million people that just entered Alabama for shelter. We're going to stop it.  But they would literally -- so you have a concrete wall, and that's what I do best, that's what I do, that's what I really do, although we done a good job at politics, too. In all fairness, we've only been doing it for about two years.  But I do best, I build. So you have a concrete wall and you have Mexico, wonderful, wonderful place, Mexico, and you have over here the United States. But you can't see anything, right? So now they take drugs literally and they throw it, a hundred pounds of drugs. They throw it over the wall, they have catapults, but they throw it over the wall and it lands and it hits somebody on the head, you don't even know they're there. Believe it or not, this is the kind of stuff that happens. So you need to have a great wall, but it has to be see-through. We are now looking at samples. We have four samples that have already been built, General, right? They've been built. And we're looking at different samples already of see-through walls. And I think also I have to be honest with you, a see-through wall would look better. You know, you don't have that whatever it might be. But we are looking at four different samples built by four great companies, four different concepts. They're just about completed. I'm going to go out and look at them personally, I'm going to pick the right one. We're renovating the existing wall. And we are going to have as much wall as we need. You don't need it all the way. You know, you have 2,000 miles, you don't need it because you have a lot of natural barriers, et cetera. Somebody said, well, what are you going to do? Are you going to build that wall in the middle of the river that nobody can go in? Are you going to build that wall on the mountain? I said you don't need the wall on the mountain, you have a mountain which is a wall. But we're going to build the wall, it's coming along great. We're soon going to have the final choices done. And the renovations will be done, I would say, within the next six or seven months. We're spending a tremendous amount of money and we're going to have that. So I just wanted to let you know where we are.  So we're very, very happy about that, you know, because every once in a while you hear, well, you know, he doesn't really want to build the wall. I say, excuse me? That's the great thing about Twitter, OK?  You know, when the press is dishonest, which is most of the time, and when they say, like, I don't want to build a wall, I can tweet that was a false story, boom, boom, boom.  No. You know, it's really not a question about we want to do a wall, but we really have to do a wall in order to stop the drugs in particular. And we've been dealing with ICE, we've been dealing with the Border Patrol. They both endorsed me, first time they've ever endorsed a candidate for president. And these guys know better than anybody. They know better than the architects, better than the consultants.  This country used to go out and get consultants. They'd spend a fortune on consultants to say what to do, how to build it and everything. They didn't have a clue. They got out of the Harvard school of something and they'd write about a wall. Let me just tell you, the best guys to tell you what to do are the Border Patrol or ICE. These are the guys that know. And you know what it costs? It costs nothing, nothing. We get it free and they're happy to do it. I was with them two weeks ago. They're happy to do it. So it's really great and it's just going to be a very important element to making America great again, like your hat.  When it comes to reforming Washington and taking on the bureaucracy, I'm telling you, because I've seen him, he's tough as hell, Luther is your man. Luther wants to end business as usual, stop the insider dealing and Luther Strange is determined to drain that swamp.  Luther's been fighting hard for the people of Alabama and for the people of the United States since his first job in office. Now, I have to tell you something, he hasn't been there very long. And again, he doesn't know those people. He had never met them, he doesn't know them, and they can't saddle him with it, but he doesn't know those people. But Luther has worked so hard. And I know the ones that work hard and I know the ones that don't work hard. In fact, I was talking about it with Richard before. Don't worry, Richard, I'm not going to give away any of these secrets. But we were talking about it. We were talking about -- he's a hard worker, Richard, I want to tell you that. He's been working hard for 34 years.  But we were talking, we were talking about who are the smart ones, who are the hardworking ones. We talked about who are the less- smart ones, too. I learned a lot. That's a lot of knowledge. But Luther shares our convictions and our vision. And maybe most importantly, he shares our agenda. Remember, he's going to win the race. He's going to win the race.  And I'm not talking here, I'm talking against the Democrat, which starts very quickly. But it's why we need each and every one of you to get a friend, go out, get a family member, get the whole family and bring them out to vote for ""Big Luther"""" Strange. You've got to vote for him Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired, he's fired.  You know, some owner is going to do that. He's going to say that guy that disrespects our flag, he's fired.  And that owner, they don't know it, they don't know it, they're friends of mine, many of them, they don't know it, they'll be the most popular person for a week, they'll be the most popular person in this country because that's a total disrespect of our heritage, that's a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, OK? Everything that we stand for. And I know we have freedoms and we have freedom of choice and many, many different freedoms. But you know what? It's still totally disrespectful. And, you know, when the NFL ratings are down massively, massively...  The NFL ratings are down massively. Now, the number-one reason happens to be that they like watching what's happening on, you know, with yours truly.  They like what's happening. Because, you know, today if you hit too hard, right, they hit too hard, 15 yards, throw him out of the game. They had that last week. I watched for a couple of minutes and two guys just really a beautiful tackle, boom, 15 yards. The referee gets on television, his wife it sitting at home, she's so proud of him, they're ruining the game. Right?  They're ruining the game. Hey, look, that's what they want to do, they want to hit, OK? They want to hit. But it is hurting the game. But you know what's hurting the game more than that? When people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when they're playing our great ""National Anthem.""""  The only thing you could do better is if you see it Not the same game anymore anyway. Now, one of the things we've done, and when I say ""we"""" it's us Right? We cherish our magnificent Constitution and we believe judges must interpret the Constitution as written and that includes defending, as I just said, our great Second Amendment.  We support the rule of law and we stand strong with the incredible men and women of law enforcement.  We protect our citizens, uphold our traditions and we will always defend our borders.  These are Alabama values. I understand the people of Alabama. I feel like I'm from Alabama, frankly.  Isn't it a little weird when a guy who lives on 5th Avenue in the most beautiful apartment you've ever seen comes to Alabama and Alabama loves that guy. I mean, it's crazy, it's crazy.  It's crazy. But I do, I understand your values, I love your values and those are the values that I believe in. Those are the values, those are the values that made this country. Those are the values that made this country great. Those are the values. I understand those values.  But as you know, these values have been under attack for many years in Washington. And that's why we need a person like Luther Strange. We need him. You've got to get out and vote.  You know, I think if everybody in this room gets out and votes, Luther, you win easily. You've got to vote. Just get out and vote. Got to get out and vote.  So Luther's not in Washington to serve the special interests, like a lot of people. Even the way he handled that thing with me. He didn't ask me, oh, you've got to do this and that. In "
"What a crowd. And just so you know from the Secret Service, there aren't too many people outside protesting, OK. That I can tell you. A lot of people in here, a lot of people pouring right now. They can get them in. Whatever you can do, fire marshals, we'll appreciate it. And I want to thank our great vice president, Mike Pence, for the introduction. As well as my friend Dr. Ben Carson. And thank you to a very, very special man, Franklin Graham, Reverend Franklin Graham, for leading us in prayer. And thank you too Alveda King, the niece of the great Dr. Martin Luther King. It really shows you that America is indeed a nation of faith, we know that. Well, I'm thrilled to be back in Phoenix, in the great state of Arizona. With so many thousands of hard-working American patriots. You know I'd love it if the cameras could show this crowd, because it is rather incredible. It is incredible. It is incredible. As everybody here remembers, this was the scene of my first rally speech, right? The crowds were so big, almost as big as tonight, that the people said right at the beginning, you know, there's something special happening here. And we went to center stage almost from day one in the debates. We love those debates. But we went to center stage and we never left, right? All of us, we did it together. You were there at the start. You've been there every single day since, and I will never forget. Believe me, Arizona, I will never forget. And I'm here tonight to send a message: We are fully and totally committed to fighting for our agenda, and we will not stop until the job is done. This evening, joined together with friends, we reaffirm our shared customs, traditions and values. We love our country. We celebrate our troops. We embrace our freedom. We respect our flag. We are proud of our history. We cherish our Constitution, including, by the way, the Second Amendment.  We fully protect religious liberty. We believe in law and order. And we support the incredible men and of law enforcement. And we pledge our allegiance to one nation under God. You always understood what Washington, D.C. did not. Our movement is a movement built on love. It's love for fellow citizens. It's love for struggling Americans who've been left behind, and love for every American child who deserves a chance to have all of their dreams come true. From the inner cities to the rural outposts, from the Sun Belt to the Rust Belt, from east to west and north to south, our movement is built on the conviction that every American from every background is entitled to a government that puts their needs first. It is finally time to rebuild our country, to take care of our people, and to fight for the jobs our great American workers deserve, and that's what we're doing.  After our amazing election victory, the forgotten men and women -- remember we used to talk about the forgotten men and women before the election? Guess what? They're not forgotten... anymore, right? Anymore. No, they're not forgotten anymore folks. In fact, they're trying to figure you out. They're saying the obstructionists, how do we get them to vote for us? I don't think that's going to happen any time soon. We believe that every American has the right to live with dignity. Respect for America demands respect for all of its people. Loyalty to our nation requires loyalty to each other, We all share the same home, the same dreams and the same hopes for a better future. A wound inflicted upon one member of our community is a wound inflicted upon us all. You saw last night. You saw last night. Did anybody watch last night? Yes. When one part of America hurts, we all hurt. And when one American suffers an injustice, all of America suffers together. We're all together. It's time for us to follow the example of our brave American soldiers. And I was with a lot of them last night, Fort Myers. No matter where they come from, no matter what faith they practice, they form a single unbreakable team. That's what we are. We're a team. As a nation, we're a team. They're all united by their devotion to our country and to their mission. It's time for all of us to remember that we are all on the same team. We are all Americans, and we all believe right now in America first. And it's happening, and it's happening fast. I see all those red hats and white hats. It's all happening very fast. It's called ""Make America Great Again."" You see what's going on. It's coming back, very fast. We want every child to succeed, every community to prosper and every struggling American to have a chance for a better life. What happened in Charlottesville strikes at the core of America. And tonight, this entire arena stands united in forceful condemnation of the thugs who perpetrate hatred and violence. But the very dishonest media, those people right up there with all the cameras.  So the -- and I mean truly dishonest people in the media and the fake media, they make up stories. They have no sources in many cases. They say ""a source says"" -- there is no such thing. But they don't report the facts. Just like they don't want to report that I spoke out forcefully against hatred, bigotry and violence and strongly condemned the neo-Nazis, the White Supremacists, and the KKK. I openly called for unity, healing and love, and they know it because they were all there. So what I did -- So what I did is I thought, I'd take just a second, and I'm really doing this more than anything else, because you know where my heart is, OK? I'm really doing this to show you how damned dishonest these people are.  So here is my first statement when I heard about Charlottesville -- and I have a home in Charlottesville, a lot of people don't know. Here's the first -- can't believe they haven't figured that one out yet. Now they know. Now they finally know. But I -- I just -- I don't want to bore you with this, but I -- it shows you how dishonest they are. And most of you know this anyway. So here's what I said, really fast, here's what I said on Saturday: ""We're closely following the terrible events unfolding in Charlottesville, Virginia"" -- this is me speaking. We condemn in the strongest, possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence."" That's me speaking on Saturday. Right after the event. So I'm condemning the strongest, possible terms, ""egregious display,"" ""hatred, bigotry and violence."" OK, I think I can't do much better, right? OK. But they didn't want to put this on. They had it on initially, but then one day he talked -- he didn't say it fast enough. He didn't do it on time. Why did it take a day? He must be a racist. It took a day.  Dishonest people. So here is -- here is me -- I hope they're showing how many people are in this room, but they won't. They don't even do that. The only time they show the crowds is when there's a disrupter or an anarchist in the room. I call them anarchists. Because, believe me, we have plenty of anarchists. They don't want to talk about the anarchists. So this is me -- ""it has no place in America."" I'm talking about hatred, bigotry and violence. It has no place in America. What is vital now is a swift restoration of law and order and the protection of innocent lives. No citizen should ever fear for their safety, security in our society, and no child should ever be afraid to go outside and play or be with their parents and have a good time. This is me speaking. Here's further. This is on Saturday, the first one. I did this three times. ""We have to come together as Americans with love for the nation and true affection, really"" -- and I say this so strongly -- ""true affection for each other."" I didn't say true affection for you and you. I said for each other, all of us. All of us. All of us. But they don't report it. They don't -- they just let it go. ""Above all else, we must remember this truth, no matter our color, creed, religion or political party, we are all Americans first. We love our country, we love our God, and we love our flag.""  And then I went on, this is my first statement, and they said, remember they said, well, he wasn't specific enough. Why wasn't he more specific? So in my second statement, I got really specific, and they said, why didn't he do it faster? The -- I'm telling you folks, look, look, I know these people probably better than anybody. And a lot of people have a problem with it, because look, what happens with them, if they're doing a story about me, I know if it's honest or false. If you're reading a story about somebody, you don't know. You assume it's honest, because it's like the failing New York Times, which is like so bad. It's so bad.  Or the Washington Post, which call a lobbying tool for Amazon, OK, that's a lobbying tool for Amazon. Or CNN, which is so bad and so pathetic, and their ratings are going down.  But all the networks -- I mean, CNN is really bad, but ABC this morning -- I don't watch it much, but I'm watching in the morning, and they have little George Stephanopoulos talking to Nikki Haley, right? Little George. And -- and he talks about the speech I made last night, which believe it or not, got great reviews, right? They had a hard time. They were having a hard time because it was with soldiers, we were somber, we were truthful, we were doing -- we were saying things -- and it really did. So, he talked about it for like that much, then he goes, ""Let's get back to Charlottesville."" Charlottesville. And Nikki was great. She's doing a great job, by the way. So now, I say we have to heal our wounds and the wounds of our country. I love the people of our country, the people, all of the people. It says I love all of the people of our country. I didn't say I love you because you're black, or I love you because you're white, or I love you because you're from Japan, or you're from China, or you're from Kenya, or you're from Scotland or Sweden. I love all the people of our country. So, I said here's my -- this is -- by the way folks, this is my exact words: ""I love all the people of our country. We're going to make America great again, but we're going to make it great for all of the people of the United States of America."" And then they say, is he a racist? Is he a racist? Then, I did a second one. So then I did a second one. Don't bother, it's only a single voice. And not a very powerful voice. How did he get in here? He's supposed to be with the few people outside. How about -- how about all week they're talking about the massive crowds that are going to be outside. Where are they? Well, it's hot out. It is hot. I think it's too warm. You know, they show up in the helmets and the black masks, and they've got clubs and they've got everything -- Antifa! So on August the 14th -- so that was it, and I said all people, I love all people, everything, right? Now I figure I'm going to do it again. I'll be even more specific. So I said, based on the events that took place over the last weekend in Charlottesville, I'd like to provide the nation with an update. Because that was right after the event, the first one, right? An update on ongoing federal response to the horrific attack and violence that was witnessed by everybody. To anyone who acted criminally in this weekend's racist violence, you will be held fully accountable, justice will be delivered. That's what I said. Listen to that, I said that, but they don't show that. They don't show it. They take -- they'll take one thing, like, seriously, he was late was the best thing. He was late. So I said, to anyone who acted criminally in this weekends racists violence. OK, then I go, we must love each other, show affection for each other, and unite together in condemnation of hatred, bigotry and violence. We must rediscover the bonds of love and loyalty that bring us together as Americans, right? Then I said, racism is evil. Do they report that I said that racism is evil? You know why? Because they are very dishonest people. So I said, racism is evil. Now they only choose, you know, like a half a sentence here or there and then they just go on this long rampage, or they put on these real lightweights all around a table that nobody ever heard of, and they all say what a bad guy I am. But, I mean do you ever see anything -- and then you wonder why CNN is doing relatively poorly in the ratings. Because they're putting like seven people all negative on Trump. And they fired Jeffrey Lord, poor Jeffrey. Jeffrey Lord. I guess he was getting a little fed up, and he was probably fighting back a little bit too hard. They said, we've better get out of here; we can't have that. And those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists and other hate groups that are repugnant to everything we hold true as Americans. Now let me ask you, can it be any better than that, in all fairness? And you know I mention that, but to the best of my knowledge when there was a big problem, Barack Obama never said it took place because of radical Islamic terrorists, he never said that, right. He doesn't have to say...  You know why? Because they have a double standard. Because the media is totally dishonest, and they have a double standard. You never heard them say that. And in fact, if you use the term you'd get criticized. But with me, they wanted me to say it, and I said it. And I said it very clearly, but they refused to put it on. ""Those who spread violence in the name of bigotry strike the very core of America."" These are my words. This was on Monday, August 14th. So you had Saturday; you had Monday. You know, I was going to do one of these every week, but you would never get it right. ""In times such as these, America has always shown its true character. Responding to hate with love, division with unity, and violence with an unwavering resolve for justice."" And then I finished, I said, ""We will defend or protect the sacred rights of all Americans."" All is capitalized times five. Not just you. And we will work together so that every citizen -- every citizen is free to follow their dreams and their hearts and to express the love and joy in their souls. OK now, I mean -- so they were having a hard time with that one, because I said everything. I hit him with neo-Nazi. I hit them with everything. I got the white supremacists, the neo-Nazi. I got them all in there, let's say. KKK, we have KKK. I got them all. So they're having a hard time. So what are they say, right? It should have been sooner. He's a racist. It should have been sooner, OK. So it should have been -- so then the last one, on Tuesday -- Tuesday I did another one: ""We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence. It has no place in America."" But they also said that he must be a racist because he never mentioned the driver of the car, who is a terrible person, drove the car and he killed Heather, and it's a terrible thing. But they said I didn't mention, so these are my words. ""The driver of the car is a murderer, and what he did was a horrible, inexcusable thing."" They said I didn't mention it. And then they asked me, just to finish it, they asked me, what about race relations in the United States? Now I have to say they were pretty bad under Barack Obama, that I can tell you. But, they asked me the question. And I said, well, I think jobs can have a very big and positive impact. I think if we continue to create jobs like I've done -- over one million since I've been in office... Way over one million. I think if we continue to create jobs at levels that I'm creating jobs, I think that's going to have a tremendously positive impact on race relations. I do. I do. And the other thing -- very important -- I believe wages will start going up, because we now have the lowest unemployment rate we've had in 17 years, so you're going to see wages go up, right? They haven't gone up for a long time. I believe wages now, because the economy is doing so well with respect to employment and unemployment, I believe wages will start to go up, and I think that will have a tremendously positive impact on race relations. So that was my words. Now, you know, I was a good student. I always hear about the elite. You know, the elite. They're elite? I went to better schools than they did. I was a better student than they were. I live in a bigger, more beautiful apartment, and I live in the White House, too, which is really great. I think -- you know what? I think we're the elites. They're not the elites. So the point is -- and I didn't want to bore you, because you understand where I'm coming from. You people understand. But the point is, that those were three different -- there were two statements and one news conference. The words were perfect. They only take out anything they can think of, and for the most part, all they do is complain. But they don't put on those words. And they don't put on me saying those words. The media can attack me. But where I draw the line is when they attack you, which is what they do. When they attack the decency of our supporters. You are honest, hard-working, taxpaying -- and by the way, you're overtaxed, but we're going to get your taxes down. You're taxpaying Americans who love our nation, obey our laws, and care for our people. It's time to expose the crooked media deceptions, and to challenge the media for their role in fomenting divisions. And yes, by the way -- and yes, by the way, they are trying to take away our history and our heritage. You see that.  And -- and I say it, and you know, we're all pros. We're all, like, we have a certain sense. We're smart people. These are truly dishonest people. And not all of them. Not all of them. You have some very good reporters. You have some very fair journalists. But for the most part, honestly, these are really, really dishonest people, and they're bad people. And I really think they don't like our country. I really believe that. And I don't believe they're going to change, and that's why I do this. If they would change, I would never say it. The only people giving a platform to these hate groups is the media itself, and the fake news. Oh, that's so funny. Look back there, the live red lights. They're turning those suckers off fast out there. They're turning those lights off fast. Like CNN. CNN does not want its falling viewership to watch what I'm saying tonight, I can tell you. I mean, the advantage I have -- the advantage I have is that we do have a big voice. And you know, they're always saying, like Twitter or social media -- if I didn't have social media, I wouldn't be able to get the word out. I probably wouldn't be standing here, right? I probably wouldn't be standing here right now. If I don't have social media, I probably would not be standing. And do you ever notice, when I go on and I'll put, like, out a tweet or a couple of tweets, ""He's in a Twitter-storm again!"" I -- I don't do Twitter-storms. You know, you'll put out a little tweet: ""I'm going to be with the veterans today."" They'll say, ""Donald Trump is in a Twitter-storm."" These are sick people. You know the thing I don't understand? You would think -- you would think they'd want to make our country great again, and I honestly believe they don't. I honestly believe it. If you want to discover the source of the division in our country, look no further than the fake news and the crooked media, which would rather get ratings and clicks than tell the truth. I mean, the New York Times has written some stories. How about this? The New York Times essentially apologized after I won the election, because their coverage was so bad, and it was so wrong, and they were losing so many subscribers that they practically apologized. I would say they did. They say, well, it wasn't really that much of an apology. Because they were losing so many people, because they were misled. And I figured, this is great. And for about two weeks I got good coverage. Then they reverted back into worse than ever before. You know, it's like one of those things. The Washington Post is terrible. But these are dishonest -- but let me tell you, you have some great, honest papers. You have some great networks. I must tell you, Fox has treated me fairly. Fox treated me fairly. They've treated me fairly. Hey, I'll let you know. You know what? Some day they might not treat me fairly, and I'll tell you about it, OK? But they've treated me fairly, and I don't mean all good. I get plenty of bad on Fox, too. But at least it's within reason. And Hannity? How good is that? How good is Hannity? And he's a great guy, and he's an honest guy. And ""Fox and Friends in the Morning"" is the best show, and it's the absolute, most honest show, and it's the show I watch. Not only does -- oh boy, those cameras are going off. Oh, wow. Why don't you just fold them up and take them home? Oh, those cameras are going off. Wow. That's the one thing, they're very nervous to have me on live television, because this can happen. Now, you know what? I'm a person that wants to tell the truth. I'm an honest person, and what I'm saying, you know is exactly right. Not only does the media give a platform to hate groups, but the media turns a blind eye to the gang violence on our streets, the failures of our public school, the destruction of our wealth at the hands of the terrible, terrible trade deals made by politicians that should've never been allowed to be politicians. And the unaccountable hostility against our incredible police, who work so hard at such a dangerous job. My administration is committed to the idea that all Americans have the right to live in safety, security and peace. We believe in the rule of law, because we know that freedom cannot exist if our people are not safe. And how safe are you at a Trump rally? Remember at the beginning, remember when this already started? When this started at the beginning, they used to send in thugs. They had -- our people are tougher than them, so it wasn't always very good for them. But they'd send in thugs, and our people would protect themselves, and then you'd go home and you'd watch this violence. Let me tell you, see this room? You've got people outside, but not very many. But see this room? You're safe in this room. You're very safe in this room. It's a big room. The most sacred duty of government is to protect the lives of its citizens, and that includes securing our borders, and enforcing our immigration laws. By the way, I'm just curious. Do the people in this room like Sheriff Joe? So, was Sheriff Joe convicted for doing his job? That's why... He should have had a jury, but you know what? I'll make a prediction. I think he's going to be just fine, OK? But -- but I won't do it tonight, because I don't want to cause any controversy. Is that OK? All right? But Sheriff Joe can feel good. The people of Arizona know the deadly and heartbreaking consequences of illegal immigration, the lost lives, the drugs, the gangs, the cartels, the crisis of smuggling and trafficking. MS-13 -- we're throwing them out so fast, they never got thrown out of anything like this. We are liberating towns out on Long Island. We're liberating. Can you imagine, in this day and age -- in this day and age in this country, we are liberating towns. This is like from a different age. We are taking these people. They don't shoot people, because it's too fast and not painful. They cut them up into little pieces. These are animals. We are getting them out of here. We're throwing them in jails, and we're throwing them out of the country. We're liberating our towns. You're seen it. You've lived it, and you elected me to put a stop to it. And we are doing a phenomenal job of putting a stop to it. That I can tell you. After years of defending other countries borders -- can you believe we fight for other countries; we want to defend their borders -- we're finally defending our own borders. And we're showing compassion for these struggling American workers who are now starting to see the light because plants are coming pouring back into our country. And by the way, we're doing a lot of good work on that, but a lot of people are coming back in. We have Foxconn, they make the iPhones, as you know, for Apple, and so many companies are building now in our country. Including the auto companies who are coming back. Years of uncontrolled immigration have placed enormous pressure on the jobs and wages of working families, and they've put great burdens on local schools and hospitals. While this may be good for a handful of special interests, it's unfair to working people of all backgrounds all throughout our country. We want every American community to succeed, including our immigrant communities, but they can't do that if we don't control our borders. Earlier today, I visited with the incredible men and women of ICE and the Border Patrol during a visit to Yuma Sector. I was over at the Yuma Sector. It was hot. It was like 115 degrees. I'm out signing autographs for an hour. I was there. That was a hot day. You learn if you're in shape if you can do that, believe me. And they actually told me -- actually, sir, it's relatively cool today. Can you believe that?  But it was great. And I met with the Border Patrol and I met with ICE, and these are incredible people; the job they do. And in fact, General Kelly, who was in charge of Homeland Security, where people coming in down 78 and almost 80 percent. He did so good, I made him my chief of staff, right? That made sense. John, where's John? Where is he? Where's General Kelly? Get him out here. He's great. He's doing a great job. But we did a lot before anything happened, we did a lot. We respect and cherish our ICE officers and our Border Patrol agents, and we respect and cherish our police officers, and our firemen, and all of our uniform services. But during that visit, I heard first hand from the frontline agents about the security threats they confront each and every day, and I pledged my continued resolve to them, and all of you, to keep our country safe. All around the nation, I have spent time with the wonderful Americans whose children were killed for the simple reason that our government failed to enforce our immigration laws, already existing laws. And I promised these families, the deaths of their loved ones will not have been in vain. I promised them. I know so many of them. One by one we are finding the gang members, the drug dealers and the criminals who prey on our people. We are throwing them out of the country or we're putting the hell, fast in jail. We are cracking down on these sanctuary cities that shield criminal aliens, finally. And we are building a wall on the southern border which is absolutely necessary.  Build that wall. Now the obstructionist Democrats would like us not to do it. But believe me, if we have to close down our government, we're building that wall. Let me be very clear to Democrats in Congress who oppose a border wall and stand in the way of border security: You are putting all of America's safety at risk. You're doing that. You're doing that. Again, the Border Patrol today, I said, how important is the wall to some of the folks? I met with a lot of them. And they looked at me, they said, it's vital. It's vital. It's so vital. And you know, we have walls. I don't know if you know, we're already starting to fix a lot of the walls we already have, because we don't have to rebuild them. And we want walls that you can see through in a sense. You want to see what's on the other side. But we're starting to fix a lot of the walls. We've done a lot of work. But I said to them, how are we doing and how important are the walls? And they said, Mr. President, you have no idea. It is desperately needed. We're going to have our wall. We're going to get our wall. And that wall is also going to help us, very importantly, with the drug problem, and the massive amounts of drugs that are pouring across the southern border. My administration will never back down in demanding immigration control. The American people voted for immigration control. That's one of the reasons I'm here, and that is what the American people deserve, and they're going to get it. So you put pressure, but believe me, one way or the other, we're going to get that wall. Immigration security is also a matter, remember this, of national security. That's why we're implementing tough new vetting and screening protocols to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our country. You look at what just happened in Spain and so many other places. Nope. We're really vetting. We're tough. Does anybody want me to be soft on the vetting or would you like --  ""Extreme vetting"" -- I came up with that term. That's what it has to be. So I have a message for Congress tonight: You're job is to represent American families, American people, American workers. That's your job. You need to represent them on the border, on taxes, on healthcare -- one vote -- and on every other issue that affects their lives. And for our friends in the Senate, oh boy -- the Senate, remember this -- look, the Senate, we have to get rid of what's called the filibuster rule; we have to. And if we don't, the Republicans will never get anything passed. You're wasting your time. We have to get rid of the filibuster rule. Right now, we need 60 votes and we have 52 Republicans. That means that eight Democrats are controlling all of this legislation. We have over 200 bills.  And we have to speak to Mitch and we have to speak to everybody. And I want to tell you, we have some great, great Republican senators. We really do, and they fought like hell to get that thing approved. They fought. They really did. They really fought. Now, even on healthcare, because of reconciliation, which, if you don't know, it doesn't matter. It's a trick. We needed 51 votes. But when you need 51, and you have 52, and we include the vice president, who always votes with us. He's the greatest. But you have no margin. But some of the best things in healthcare require 60 votes. So even when you say we're voting on healthcare, like across state lines, purchase across state lines. One of the most important things, I've been talking about it for two years during debates. It gives competition. Insurance companies come in, your prices go way down. Arizona is a disaster in terms of the price increase of your insurance, 116 percent interest. You got to get rid of the filibuster rule. You've got to go to a majority. You've got to go to 51 votes, and if they don't do that they're -- they're just wasting time. All of the Democrats in Congress, that's the only thing they do well. They do one thing well. You know what it's called? They have no ideas. They have no policies. They obstruct. That's all they do. They're word is, we resist. They don't resist; they obstruct. It's all they're good at. It's all they're good at. That's all they do. On healthcare, they have 48 Democrats. We got no votes. We got no votes. And it would have been great healthcare. And by the way, would have been great healthcare for Arizona. Would have been great. So the Democrats have no ideas, no policy, no vision for the country other than total socialism and maybe, frankly, a step beyond socialism from what I'm seeing.  Under they're plan for America, your taxes will double or triple, your service will diminish and your borders will be left wide open for everybody to come in and enjoy our country.  Obamacare is a disaster and think -- think, we were just one vote away from victory after seven years of everybody proclaiming repeal and replace. One vote away. One vote away. We were one vote away. Think of it, seven years the Republicans -- and again, you have some great senators, but we were one vote away from repealing it.  But, you know, they all said, Mr. President, your speech was so good last night, please, please, Mr. President don't mention any names. So I won't. I won't. No I won't vote -- one vote away, I will not mention any names. Very presidential, isn't' it? Very presidential. And nobody wants me to talk about your other senator, who's weak on borders, weak on crime, so I won't talk about him.  Nobody wants me to talk about him. Nobody knows who the hell he is. And now -- see, I haven't' mentioned any names. So now, everybody's happy. But we are going to get rid of Obamacare. I will never stop -- one vote -- I will never stop. We're going to get rid of Obamacare"
"Thank you. Thank you. I am thrilled to be back in the very, very beautiful state of West Virginia. And I am proud to stand before you and celebrate the hard working people who are the absolute backbone of America. Thank you. I love the people of the states. I love your grit, your spirit, and I love our coal miners. They are coming back strong.  I made you a promise during the campaign. You all remember. Many of you were here. I actually think we have more people here tonight with thousands outside than we had during the campaign, if you can believe it.  And as you've seen, I've kept that promise. As President, we are putting our coal miners back to work. We've ended the war on beautiful, clean coal. We've stopped the EPA intrusion. American coal exports are already up. Think of this. Think of this. American exports of coal are already up more than 60% this year. Did you ever hear of anything like that? What you voted for is happening every single day. Everyone in the arena is united by shared values.  We believe in God, we believe this team, we believe in country. We support the Constitution of the United States of America. We cherish and defend the second amendment. We believe school should teach students to love our country, to have pride in our history, and to respect our great American flag. We stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement. Thank you. We believe strongly that a nation must defend and protect its borders. And above all else, we believe we must take care of our own citizens, and put America first. Day after day, we are keeping the promises that we made during the campaign. That includes our promises to our great veterans. Thank you, veteran... veterans. Today we announce new telehealth services to help the veterans get the care when and where they need it. It is so popular. This state has many retired military members. We thank them. We thank their family and spouses for their patriotic service. They have been incredible. We in America honor our great heros. This week in the East Room of the White House, I awarded the Medal of Honor to a true American hero. Specialist 5, James C. McCloughan. Many of you watched as I gave Jim the medal. He courageously saved the lives of his fellow soldiers in Vietnam. His story is now enshrined forever. Earlier this morning the former Marine named Woody Williams lead everyone here in the Pledge of Allegiance. Thank you, Woody.  Woody received a Medal of Honor from President Harry Truman for his actions in Iwo Jima. We honor you and salute you and thank you for what you've done for all of us. Thank you, Woody. We must protect them with their put, sweat, tears, and bravery. All across the country Americans of every kind are coming together with one simple goal. Make America great again. The stock market reached yet another all time in history. All time high today. Boosting at the retirement savings, hope any, of everybody in the room. Have you all been helped? I think so. Unemployment is at a 16-year low don't forget. I'll never forget the millions and millions of people out there that want jobs that don't register on the unemployment rolls, because they gave up looking for jobs. So I accept the number, but honestly, we all know there are millions of people out there that we love. The forgotten men and women and they are looking for jobs. They are going to have them. I have factories coming back into the country. You've seen that. They are coming back.  We have auto plants expanding and coming back they are coming into Michigan. They are really coming into Michigan. And they are coming into Ohio and Pennsylvania. Economic growth has surged to 2.6% nationwide. You have to understand what that means. Nobody thought that number was going to happen. And at 3% growth in West Virginia. I wonder how that happened. 3% growth. West Virginia, you are leading the average. When was the last time you heard that, West Virginia? You are leading the country's average. Remember I told you don't sell your homes. Don't sell your homes. You are doing great. I'm so proud of you. You know, we won the state by 42 points. Can you believe that? 42 points. I asked your Republican party leader how would we be doing today versus November 8th and Election Day. He said honestly, President Trump, you are doing better. I said better? 42 points since our election, not mine, since our election we've added more than one million new jobs. And the good news keeping on pouring in. In fact, we have a very important announcement to make tonight. Does anybody know what that announcement is? Does anybody know what that announcement is? We have a very, very large announcement. Do you understand? Large. So I would like to invite my good friend and your Governor, Jim Justice, up to the stage to share this news with all of you. Jim, come on up. Come on up, Jim. Look at this guy. Jim is going to say a few words. These words have not been spoken by a major political figure, meaning Governor or Senator in our country for a long time. Thank you. First of all, it is a real honor. Thank you for coming. Thank our great President for being here. I've got to tell you a couple of stories real quick. I've been to the Oval Office twice in the last few weeks. I've been to present an idea on coal and manufacturing. I've had the great opportunity to be with our President. Let me tell you just this. I have to be serious with you just a moment. I have to tell you at the last session of our legislature I tried with all of my soul. Now I can tell you if you'll just give me just a moment. This man and myself are are not politicians. We ran to get something done. We ran and gave up part of our lives. We ran, because we want nothing. We ran as our founding fathers did years and years ago to serve now I will promise you until my soul that no one loves West Virginia more than I. In the last session, I would tell you that there was something greatness to passed with our rows and so on. But there was way too much pain. Now listen to me and listen really good. We hurt a lot of people. We hurt our vets and our teachers and our disabled and our weak and we walked away from at the old. Now I can promise you just this, I came -- I came to only get something done. Let me just say this to you as bluntly as I can say it. West Virginia, at the altar when we had it done, like it or not like it, but the Democrats walked away from me. Now today I would tell you with los of prayers and lots of thinking, today I'll tell you as West Virginians, I can't help you being a Democrat Governor. So tomorrow I will be changing my registration to Republican.  , Cheers] As a coach, I would tell you it is time to run another play. I would also tell you this, please pay close attention to this. My mom and dad were staunch lovers of Ronald Reagan. Staunch Republicans. My mom and dad are no question in my mind in heaven right now and their both saying the same thing. But my mom is saying it more profoundly. That is she's saying, Jimmy, it's about damn time you came to your senses. Now let let me go one step further and say just this. What in the world is wrong us as people? Have we not heard enough about the Russians? I mean to our God in heaven above. The stock market is in 22,000. And this country has hope. We're on our way. This man is the really dear friend of mine. But you know what else is unbelievable? This man now has a Chief of Staff that all of us can pronounce his first name. And you know what that name is today? It is ""Sir"". Think about that. Now I'll end by saying we're a long ways from being perfect. There's mistakes made and change is tough. I can tell you this tough. I can tell you this: This man is a reflection of his kids. Eric Trump has been in the back of the woods changing a tire, I've talked with Donald Junior, and Ivanka and Jared, -- even though Jared is our great son-in-law, are so good at being in charge. Now I'll end by saying very quickly this man is a good man. He's got -- he's got a backbone, he's got real ideas. We cares about America, he cares about us in West Virginia. And most importantly of all, you know what? He has made us as common, every everyday Americans, feel good and be proud of who we are. My friend, our great President, Donald J. Trump.  I want to thank your great Governor. Having big Jim as a Republican is such an honor. I will tell you. Such an honor. It is a fantastic man. A fantastic guy. And thank you, Jim, very much all over the nation. They are watching. They really appreciate that. And we have another friend with us tonight who voted for us on health care and honestly, how the Republicans and the Democrats let us down on that is hard to believe. Repeal and replace. Hard to believe. Hard to believe. Senators. A Senator who voted for us, Shelley Moore, who is here with us tonight. Thank you, Shelley. Jim came to the Oval Office a couple of weeks ago. We talked about how we are working together to open up the coal mines in this state and also very importantly to create jobs in furniture manufacturing, and other forms of manufacturing very important to Jim. But Governor Justice did something else very important tonight. He showed the country that our agenda rises above left or right it is an agenda for all of the people, especially for the tens of millions of forgotten Americans. They are not so forgotten anymore. I will tell you. He approved that. You proved it. They are not forgotten anymore. Countless citizens, Democrats, and Republicans, independents, have been neglected and ignored by Washington. But we will make sure they are never ignored again. We know there are powerful forces in Washington who want to stomp us. But we won't let them. We are fighting for every American who has been overlooked, pushed aside, or told to put their dreams on hold but we will win and we're winning though. The failed voices in Washington who oppose our movement are the exact same people who gave us one terrible trade deal after another. Who gave us one foreign policy disaster after another, and who sacrificed our sovereignty, our wealth, and our jobs. They gave them away. We don't need advice from the Washington swamp. We need to drain the swamp.  Washington is full of people who are only looking out for themselves. You know it better than most. I didn't come to Washington for me. I came to Washington for all of you. That I can tell you.  Your dreams are my dreams. Your hopes are my hopes. And your future is what I'm fighting for each and every day. The question for Democrats -- all Democrats, including those in Congress, is whether they are on the side of the voters or are they on the side of the special interests? The reason why Democrats only talk about at the totally made up Russia story is because they have no message, no agenda, and no vision. They don't talk about the all time high stock market. They don't talk about reforms to the V.A. Or about manufacturing jobs we're bringing back to America by the hundreds of thousands. They don't talk about the Keystone pipeline that I immediately approved or the Dakota Access Pipeline. Russia story is a total fabrication. It is just an excuse for the greatest loss in the history of American politics. That's all it is. It is just makes them feel better what they have nothing else to talk about. What the prosecutor should be look at are Hillary Clinton's 33,000 deleted e-mails, and they should be looking at the paid Russian speeches. And the owned Russian companies. Or let them look at at the uranium she sold that's now in the hands of very angry Russian. Most people know there were no Russians in our campaign. There never were. We didn't win because of Russia. We won because of you. That I can tell you. We won because we totally out worked the other side. We won because millions of patriotic Americans voted to take back their country. Have you seen any Russians in West Virginia or Ohio or Pennsylvania? Are there any Russians here tonight? Any Russians? They can't beat us at the voting booths. They are trying to cheat you out of the future and the future that you want. They are trying to cheat you out of the leadership that you want with a fake story that is demeaning to all of us and most importantly, demeaning to our country and demeaning to our Constitution. I just hope the final determination is a truly honest one. Which is what at the the millions of people who gave us our big win in November deserve. And what all Americans who want a better future want and deserve Democrat lawmakers will have to decide. They can continue their obsession with the Russian hoax, or they can serve the interests of the American people. Try winning a the voter booth. Try winning at the voter booth. Not going to be easy. But that's the way you are supposed to do it. Our agenda is the pro-growth agenda. We want to control our boarders and lift our people from welfare to work. We want to support our police and make our communities safe. We want to reduce taxes and increase wages for all of our people. We want to get the special interest out of politics for good. And we want to bring back our plants and our factories and our manufacturing and that's what is happening right now. You see it, and so does every other state in our union. That is why in the proud tradition of America's great leaders from Washington to Lincoln to Teddy Roosevelt, we are protecting American workers and we are protecting American industry for the first time in many, many decades. No longer will we allow other considerations to close our jobs, steal our factories, and drain our wealth. We are building our future with American labor and hands and aluminum and steel and, what else, coal. We will buy American and we will hire American. To protect our jobs and our industry, I withdrew the United States from the horrible Trans-Pacific Partnership. And to protect our workers and coal miners, I also withdrew the United States from the job-killing Paris Climate Accord. But not only are we bringing back our jobs, we are bringing back our safety. We have seen the bloodshed and devastation inflicted by terrorists in America, in Europe, and all across the world I said it during the campaign. I will say it again right here tonight. We will keep radical, Islamic terrorists out of our country.  we only want to admit people in our country who love our people and who share our values. We're also keeping our country safe from criminal gangs and violent crime. We are taking the fight to the drug smugglers. Human traffickers. And the vile criminal cartels like MS-13 who are being thrown out of our country so quickly you can't even count. Just last week I visited Long Island. MS-13 has brought violence to a once-peaceful and beautiful neighborhood right where I grew up. We are liberating American communities from the vicious, violent gangs. One by one we're finding the drug dealers, gang members, thieves, criminals, and predators, and we're throwing them out of our country. Once they are gone, we will not let them back in. We are stopping drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth. You have a big problem in West Virginia and we are going to solve that problem. We are cracking down strongly on sanctuary cities that shield criminal aliens. And in order to stop the drugs, gangs, and traffickers, we are building a wall on the southern border. I also proudly announced legislation this week with Senators Tom Cotton and David Perdue to perform our immigration system to protect American workers and American taxpayers. It is called the raise act. R-A-I-S-E. The Raise Act. For many years America has issued most of the green cards to lower-skilled immigrants. And people who had no hope of getting a job. Undermining blue collar workers and wages and costing taxpayers billions and billions of dollars a year. The Raise Act switches to a merit-based system. You come in largely based on merit. Doesn't that sound nice? Wouldn't that be nice? It is about time. Our proposal prevents new immigrants from going on welfare for at least five years. So you don't come in and go on welfare. Our plan favors applicants who can speak English, who can support themselves financially, and who demonstrate valuable skills that will strengthen our economy and strengthen our country. We believe decisions on who immigrants are in our country should be based on the best interest of America and the best interest of the American people. You. We are working to honor millions and million of workers who came out and voted for us. That's why I will repeat again tonight that Congress must do its job, keep its promise, live up to its were, and repeal and replace Obamacare. You have to do it. Fog in life is easy. But Congress must not give in. They must not give up. But instead, Congress must get to work and deliver Americans the great health care that they deserve, the great repeal and replace that they've been talking about for seven years. Incredible. One vote. Incredible. But we'll get it. We'll get it, folks. They can't give up. Call your Congressman, call your Senators, call everybody. Get them to have the guts to vote to repeal and replace Obamacare. Which is a disaster. To be a prosperous nation, it is critical we lower the tax burden on our workers and businesses. The United States has the highest tax rate on business anywhere in the world. We want to bring it down to one of the lowest, because we want more growth, more jobs, and high er pay. That's what's doing to happen. And importantly, we also want to let Americans keep more of their own money. Not take it from them. It is time to pass a tax cut for middle class families. Finally, and you'll see very soon what you are hearing about it, my administration is committed to rebuilding the deleted infrastructure of the United States. Think of it. We've spent six trillion dollars in the Middle East and the Middle East is a hundred times worse than it was 16 years ago when we started. Can you believe this? What a shame. That's why we are pushing a $1 trillion new infrastructure investment bill. We're going to fix our roads, we're going to fix our bridges, we're going to fix our highways and our schools and our airports we will create amazing monuments that inspire awe and wonder in our people. It used to be that way. It is not that way any longer. We have airports that look like third world countries. It is not going to be that way anymore. American workers will build this great future. And American energy and American clean coal will power this future. We are the nation that put a man on the moon that dug out the Panama Canal, and that won two world wars. We can do anything, we can build anything with and we can dream anything. We share one home and one glorious destination. Where we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood. We all salute that same great American flag. And we are all made by the same almighty God. As long as we remember these truths and who we are and what we are fighting for, we will never fail. America will triumph. Freedom will prevail. Our values will endure. Our citizens will prosper. And our nation will thrive as never before. With patriotism in our soul and with love for West Virginia in our hearts, we say these words again tonight. We will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again we will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, West Virginia. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. "
"Thank you, Melania, America loves our First Lady, thank you. I am thrilled to be back in the great state of Ohio right here with the incredible men and women of Youngstown. What an amazing few days it's been. On Saturday, I was in Virginia with thousands of brave men and women of the United States military. Do we love the United States military? We commissioned the newest, largest, and most advanced aircraft carrier in the history of our nation, the USS Gerald R. Ford into the great American fleet.  Then yesterday, I was in West Virginia with almost 50,000 of our most impressive young Americans. They are young men who learned to cherish words like duty, honor, God, and country, the Boy Scouts. Then only a few hours ago the senate approved a vote to begin debating the repealing and replacing the Obamacare disaster.  Finally. You think that's easy? That's not easy. We're now one step closer to liberating our citizens from this Obamacare nightmare, and delivering great health care for the American people. We're gonna do that too. And now tonight I'm back in the center of the American heartland, far away from the Washington swamp to spend time with thousands of true American patriots.  We have spent the entire week celebrating with the hard-working men and women who are helping us make America great again. I'm here this evening to cut through the fake news filter and to speak straight to the American people. fake news. fake, fake, fake news.. Boy oh boy, people. Is there any place that's more fun, more exciting and safer than a Trump rally? Where the hell did he come from? This has been a difficult week for the media because I forced them to travel with us all around the country and spend time with tens of thousands of proud Americans who believe in defending our values, our culture, our borders, our civilization, and our great American way of life. , Everyone in this arena is united by their love, and you know that. Do we know that. Everyone. United by their love for this country and their loyalty to one another, their loyalty to its people.  And we want people to come into our country who can love us and cherish us and be proud of America and the American flag.  We believe that schools should teach our children to have pride in our history and respect for that great American flag. We all believe in the rule of law, and we support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. Thank you. Thank you for being here. [cheers. We celebrate our military and believe the American armed forces are the greatest force for peace and justice in the history of the world, and by the way, they're getting a lot greater fast. A lot greater. You saw our budget. we're ordering billions and billions of dollars of new ships and new planes and equipment for our great soldiers. We are building it up. There's rarely been a time where we needed the protection of our incredible military more than right now, right here, and that's what we're going to do. We believe in freedom, self-government, and individual rights. We cherish and defend -- thank you, it looks like it's in very good shape -- our Second Amendment. congratulations.  Yes, our Second Amendment is very, very sound again. that would have been gonzo. It would have been gone, but i never had a doubt. We support the constitution of the United States and believe that judges should interpret the constitution as written and not make up new meaning for what they read. And finally, we believe that family and faith, not government and bureaucracy, are the foundation of our society. You've heard me say it before on the campaign trail and I'll say it again tonight. In America, we don't worship government. We worship God. . Tonight, we're going to set aside the cynics and the critics because we know exactly why they are so angry and so bitter. Day by day, week by week we are restoring our government's allegiance to its people, to its citizens, to the people that we all love. We are keeping our promises to the people, and yes, we are putting finally, finally, finally we are putting America first. . After years and years of sending our jobs and our wealth to other countries, we are finally standing up for our workers and for our companies.  After spending billions of dollars defending other nations' borders, we are finally defending our borders. . Don't even think about it, we will build the wall. Don't even think about it. I watched the media as they say, well, he just had some fun during the campaign on the wall. That wasn't fun, folks. We're building that wall, and walls do work and we're going to have great people come into our country, but we're not gonna to put ourselves through the problems that we've had for so many years.  After decades of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally going to rebuild our nation. . They're pointing to a protester. Honestly, if you don't point, nobody's even going to know he's here. Weak voice, weak voice, don't worry. . Boy, he's a young one. he's going back home to mommy. Oh, is he in trouble. He's in trouble. He's in trouble. And I'll bet his mommy voted for us, right?  By the way, so this morning I'm watching Fox News  And they had some people on, and these were democrats that voted for trump. And they had this on. And so far if anything, they've gotten even more committed. But they had a man on this morning -- they had a man on this morning who was a Democrat his whole life. He voted as a democrat, but he voted for -- I say us, I don't say me. He voted for us in the last election 2016.  And they said to him, so if the election were held now again, what would you do? And he effectively said, man, would I vote for Trump again, even faster. So his name is Gino de Fabio. where is Gino? Gino, get over here, Gino. Whoa. Gino de Fabio!. Anybody who knows me, friends of mine, people who love me it's worse for them, they know how it's been since President Trump started running for the election. How much I supported this guy, how much I love this guy, this guy's got something, he's the real deal. Everybody else came and said ""we're gonna fight for you,"" this is Youngstown, Mr. President, but this is also the Steel Valley. Every one of these people love you, Sir. And I don't want to sound silly or anything, but i thought what would I say to the President if I ever got to meet him, which this is an honest to God over the top moment for me. I thought you know I'm just going to tell him something. And sir, like I said, thank you for Justice Gorsuch on the Supreme Court. Right? That started it all. And then I apologize, I said Mr. President, thank you for Melania. Could we have a more outstanding First Lady? I'm probably going to be in trouble with my wife, but God bless that woman. And then last thing I said and I don't think he thought I was going to take this much time but anybody that knows me, this is gonna happen, I said thank you sir for keeping the promises you made. To these 12,000 people and to the country. In my recommendation sir, look what you could do in the bastion of the Democratic party. I don't think there's anyone except Cuyahoga County who is more Democratic than us. Look who you could draw. I go back to Washington, I would tell the Republicans and the Democrats, ""Look. I am going to go do my rallies. You got the agenda. Those people are voting for me and mine. Do what you want. Pass my agenda or we're going out on the road."" Thank you sir. An absolute honor. Thank you sir. Thank you, Gino. What a man. I watched him this morning, I said, we got to find this guy, he's just a great person. Always a Democrat, now it's gone. I'll tell you what, I rode through your beautiful roads coming up from the airport, and I was looking at some of those big once incredible job-producing factories, and my wife, Melania, said what happened? I said, those jobs have left Ohio. They're all coming back. They're all coming back. . Don't move. Don't sell your house. Don't sell your house. Remember, i got a lot of credit. This is hard to believe but the press gave me a lot of credit because a number of years ago I said this is the time to buy a house during one of my speeches. I said, go out and buy, and they did this big story, Trump predicted. Let me tell you folks in Ohio and in this area, don't sell your house. Don't sell your house. Do not sell it. We're going to get those values up. We're going to get those jobs coming back, and we're going to fill up those factories or rip them down and build brand new ones. It's going to happen.  We're gonna have it so that Americans can once again speak the magnificent words of Alexander Hamilton, ""here the people govern."" Political correctness for me is easy. Sometimes they say he doesn't act Presidential. And I say, hey look, great schools, smart guy, it's so easy to act presidential but that's not gonna to get it done. In fact, I said it's much easier, by the way, to act presidential than what we're doing here tonight, believe me. And I said -- and I said with the exception of the late great Abraham Lincoln, i can be more presidential than any President that's ever held this office. That I can tell you. It's real easy.  But sadly, we have to move a little faster than that. We will never be beholden to the lobbyists or the special interests. We will never be silenced by the media. I want to protect America, and i want to protect the citizens of America. Your hopes are my hopes. Your dreams are my dreams. I've had a great successful career. I've built a great, great business. This is the only thing that matters. This is the only thing that matters. There is nothing else. Your future is what I'm fighting for each and every day. Here is just a small sample of what we have accomplished in just our first six months in office. And I'll say this and they always like to say, well, I don't know. But I think that with few exceptions no president has done anywhere near what we've done in his first six months. Not even close. But they don't let you know. They don't want to write about it. That unemployment last month hit a 16-year low. Since my election, we've added much more than 1 million jobs. Think of that. And remember I came in and some people said, don't say that. I'd say, ""what do you have to lose?"" I talked about the inner city, and I talked about the crime and the problems and the lack of education, and I talked to my African-American friends and I said, vote for me, what the hell do you have to lose? Do you remember that? The Hispanic, the African-American, the inner cities. So now it just came out, African-Americans and teenagers are enjoying their lowest unemployment since just after the turn of the millennium.  That's pretty good, right? we've eliminated burdensome regulations at record speed and many, many more are coming off. And boy, have we put those coal miners and coal back on the map. You've seen that, haven't you? And all other forms of energy. We've achieved a historic increase in defense spending to get our troops the support they so richly deserve. We have signed new legislation to hold federal workers accountable for the care they provide to our great, great veterans. Veterans Accountability Act, they've been trying to get that done for many, many, many years, even decades. And you understand why it was tough, but we got it done. In fact, our secretary is with us tonight, David Shulkin, and we have some just incredible people here tonight, some of whom you've already met. But the job they're doing for the vets, having to do with choice, having to do with doctors, having to do with not having to wait online for days and days and days and getting sicker and sicker and sicker, where you could be taken care of immediately. Now you go out and you see a doctor. To protect American jobs and workers, I withdrew the united states from both the Trans-Pacific Partnership potential disaster and the job-killing Paris Climate Accord. Believe me. And if we don't negotiate a great deal with Mexico and Canada, we will terminate NAFTA and we'll start all over again. You remember when I was in Youngstown, I said we will either renegotiate NAFTA or we'll terminate it. So let's see what happens, but we're right now negotiating with the heads of Mexico, a good man, the President, and the Prime Minister of Canada, a good man. Let's see what happens. But we will no longer be the foolish people. We will no longer be the stupid people that get taken care of so badly by our politicians because they don't know what they're doing.  We will always work with our friends and partners, but we will never again sacrifice Ohio jobs or jobs from any state in our union to enrich other countries which has been what is happening to this country.  And by the way, while we're on it, the Iran deal which may be the single worst deal I've ever seen drawn by anybody, if that deal doesn't conform to what it's supposed to conform to, there's going to be big, big problems for them. That I can tell you. You're going to see that. Believe me. You would have thought when that deal was made by Secretary Kerry, maybe the worst negotiator I've ever seen, you would have thought that Iran would have said, thank you, United States. We can't believe you gave us between $100 billion and $150 billion when they were ready to fail. We can't believe you gave us $1.7 billion in cash. You know what that looks like? You would have thought they would have said, ""thank you, United States, we really love you very much."" Instead, they've become emboldened. That won't take place much longer.  The great president from the state of Ohio, William McKinley and you know William McKinley, does anybody know who the hell he is? Do you know who he is? William McKinley understood that when America protects our workers and our industries, we open up a higher and better destiny for our people. We don't protect our people. We don't protect. Trade comes in, goods come in. I was with Harley-Davidson, a great company from Wisconsin. Who has a Harley-Davidson? A lot of you.  They came to the White House and they said to me, ""yeah, it's tough going outside of the United States. We're doing great in the United States but when we sell a motorcycle to certain countries, we have as much as a 100% tax to pay."" And I said, ""tell me, when they sell back to us, meaning reciprocal, so when they sell back to us, what tax do we charge them?"" The answer is zero.  Those days are going to be over very soon.  Unfortunately, like everything else, there are so many restrictions on doing what's right for our country, there's so much red tape, but don't worry, we're getting through it. The red tape, you would think we could just do it. Wouldn't you think you could say, ""hey, you charge us 100%, we're going to charge you 100%?"" Then either you'll get the money or you'll both drop it, right? We can't do that. We've got to go back to Congress, who other than health care today, has been made some very bad deals, okay? So we're going to start enriching our country. We're going to start bringing back our jobs, and we will be fools no longer, folks. We'll be fools no longer. Every single President on Mt. Rushmore  now here's what i do. I'd ask whether or not you think I will someday be on Mt. Rushmore, but, but here's the problem. If I did it joking, totally joking, having fun, the fake news media will say, ""he believes he should be on Mt. Rushmore."" So I won't say it, okay? I won't say it. But every president -- they'll say it anyway tomorrow. ""Trump thinks he should be on Mt. Rushmore."" Isn't that terrible? What a group. What a dishonest group of people, I'll tell you.  And you know the funny thing is that you would think they'd want to see our country be great again. You would really think so. But they don't. Someday they'll explain it to me why. Every president on Mt. Rushmore believed in protecting American industry. We have to protect our industry. And now we are going to start, we are reclaiming our heritage as a manufacturing nation again. Bob Kraft, the owner of the New England patriots, I don't know if you like New England but they have a hell of a team.  That's okay. But he came to the Oval Office and he brought a sheet with him that just came out. Manufacturing enthusiasm in the United States is at an all-time high. Isn't that great? To me that's so great. because we're going to bring back our jobs, bring back our wealth, and we are going to bring back our dreams, and we are going to bring back, once again our sovereignty as a nation. As a nation.  Since I took office we have cut illegal immigration on our southern border by record numbers. 78%.  Record, record numbers. And in fact, the ICE, folks I'll tell you what, and the border patrol police, they are phenomenal people. They're working with General Kelly. And just so you understand, we've already started fixing much of the good wall that's already there. We've already started fixing it. But we are breaking records. And it was actually told to me the other day by somebody in Mexico that's very high up, said it's incredible because their southern border is getting very little traffic. Nobody is coming anymore because they know they can't get through our southern border. So they don't even come.  Never again will America surrender the security of our people, the safety of our communities or the sovereignty of our nation. We are cracking down hard on the foreign criminal gangs that have brought illegal drugs, violence, horrible bloodshed to peaceful neighborhoods all across our country. We are throwing MS-13 the hell out of here so fast. You know, we're actually -- hard to believe that we're talking about our great country. We are actually liberating towns and cities. We are liberating  people are screaming from their windows, thank you, thank you to the border patrol and to General Kelly's great people that come in and grab the thugs and throw them the hell out. We are liberating our towns and we are liberating our cities. Can you believe we have to do that?  Earlier in year and immigration and customs enforcement conducted the largest single raid of transnational gangs in the history of our country. We are dismantling and destroying the bloodthirsty criminal gangs, and well, I will just tell you in, we're not doing it in a politically correct fashion. We're doing it rough. Our guys are rougher than their guys. I asked one of our great generals, ""how tough are our people? How tough are they?"" He said, ""Sir, you don't want to know about it."" Then I saw one guy come out, a customs officer who is a monster. I said, ""so general, you think i could take that guy in a fight?"" He said, ""Mr. President, sir i don't even want to think about it."" I said ""you're right, actually."" We have tough people. Our people are tougher than their people. Our people are tougher and stronger and meaner and smarter than the gangs. One by one we are finding the illegal gang members, drug dealers, thieves, robbers, criminals and killers. And we are sending them the hell back home where they came from. And once they are gone, we will never let them back in. Believe me. The predators and criminal aliens who poison our communities with drugs and prey on innocent young people, these beautiful, beautiful, innocent young people will, will find no safe haven anywhere in our country. And you've seen the stories about some of these animals. They don't want to use guns, because it's too fast and it's not painful enough. So they'll take a young, beautiful girl, 16, 15, and others and they slice them and dice them with a knife because they want them to go through excruciating pain before they die. And these are the animals that we've been protecting for so long. Well, they're not being protected any longer, folks. And that is why my administration is launching a nationwide crackdown on sanctuary cities. American cities should be sanctuaries for law-abiding Americans, for people that look up to the law, for people that respect the law, not for criminals and gang members that we want the hell out of our country.  Sanctuary cities legislation has passed the house, along with Kate's Law, named for Kate Steinle, who was brutally killed by a five-time deported illegal immigrant. We are asking the Senate to vote on sanctuary cities and Kate's Law legislation. We've got to get it passed. The Trump administration has the backs of our ICE Officers, our border patrol agents. And yes, our great police officers. And we have their backs 100%. We are going to also protect them, like they protect us. This month in Chicago, there have been more than 2 homicide victims per day. What the hell is going on in Chicago? Better tell that Mayor to get tough, because it's not working what they're doing. We are going to get criminals off our streets. And we are going to make America safe again. We also strongly believe that our borders must always be closed to terrorism and extremism. We don't want radical Islamic terrorists in our country. We've seen the total devastation in Europe. And the attack from New York to Boston to San Bernardino. Exactly one year ago next month I came right here to Youngstown to deliver a major address on how my administration would protect our country from terrorism and radical Islamic terrorism. We only want to admit those into our country who share our values, who love our people and who always will love our people. We don't want people coming into our country who have bad intentions even before they start.  We also believe that those seeking to immigrate into our country should be able to support themselves financially and should not be able to use welfare for themselves or the household for a period of at least five years. As we speak, we are working with two wonderful senators, Tom Cotton and David Purdue, to create a new immigration system for America. Instead of today's low-skill system, just a terrible system where anybody comes in. People that have never worked, people that are criminals, anybody comes in. We want a merit-based system. One that protects workers our workers, our taxpayers, and one that protects our economy. We want it merit-based. We want people that work really hard in their country and that are going to come into our country and work really, really hard. We don't want people that come into our country and immediately go on welfare and stay there for the rest of their lives. We're not going to do it. We are working every single day to move the legislation that serves the interests of the American people. As we discussed earlier, at the very top of the list is health care reform. With Obamacare, the Washington obstructionists, meaning Democrats, made big promising to the American people. And every single promise they made turned out to be a lie. I can have your doctor. You can have your plan. Do you remember? 28 times. You can have your doctor. You can have your plan. I know Democrats who heard that and they would have never have voted for it but they voted for it because they believed the lies of President Obama. For seven years every Republican running for office promised to repeal and replace in disastrous law. Now they must keep their promise. The Senate is working not only to repeal Obamacare but to deliver great health care for the American people. Any senator who votes against repeal and replace is telling America that they are fine with the Obamacare nightmare, and I predict they'll have a lot of problems. In West Virginia, recent premiums have gone up 169% since Obamacare went into effect. In Alaska over 200%. And the deductibles have gone through the roof. You'll never even get to use it. In Missouri, premiums have shot up 145% under Obamacare. In Pennsylvania the cost of Obamacare insurance has more than doubled, and the coverage has become horrific. It's time for Democrats to stop resisting. That's their term. Resist. Resist. They have to do, finally, what's right for the American people. But probably we'll do it ourselves. Because today we won 51 to 50 and didn't get one Democrat vote. Think of that.  My administration is working every single day to heed and honor the will of the voters. That includes working on one of the biggest tax cuts in American history. And actually if I get what I want it will be the single biggest tax cut in American history. We have the highest taxes anywhere in the world, and this will really bring them down to one of the lowest. And we really have no choice. We will have growth. We will have everything that we've dreamed of having. It's time to let Americans keep more of their own money. It's time to bring new companies to our shores and to create a new era of growth, prosperity and wealth. We want millions of Americans to be lifted from welfare to work and from dependence to independence. One of the ways we will put more Americans to work is by rebuilding our nation's crumbling infrastructure. That is why I have called on legislators to pass a bill that generates $1 trillion in new infrastructure investments. We're going to fix our roads our bridges our tunnels our airports. We are going to fix all of the things that once made us great. And we are going to use American iron, American steel, American aluminum. We will buy American and will hire, finally, American. We want once again to have the best infrastructure. The best schools, the best jobs, the best factories. And we want products that proudly carry the label ""made in the USA."" We want this country that we love so much, America, to be strong, proud and free. Which means America must also be united. Because when America is united, America is totally unstoppable. Although I'll be totally honest with you even if it's not united we're unstoppable so don't worry. We're gonna to be unstoppable either way but it would be nice, wouldn't it? Our small differences are nothing compared to our common history, common values and common future. Wes hare one heart, one home and one glorious destiny. Now it is up to us to preserve the birth right of freedom and justice, the birth right of prosperity that our ancestors won for us with their sweat, with their sweat, with their blood, with their work, with their muscle, with their brain. They won it for us and we're gonna make it bigger and better and stronger than it ever was before. It's time to look past the old divisions. They're tired, really tired, politicians. And the stale debates of the past, and to finally come together as one nation under god. We have no choice. We cannot and never will back down. We will never, ever give up. We cannot fail. And if we remember what unites us, then I promise you we will not fail. We cannot fail. We will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, God bless you, God bless the state of Ohio. Thank you everybody."
"Thank you both. Thank you very much. This is some group, some group. It's nice to win, isn't it? Isn't it nice to win? Robert, thank you very much for that incredible introduction, and thank you to everyone from First Baptist Dallas. Thank You. Pastor, you and Amy have stood with us since the very very beginning, and I will always stand with you. I've told you that, and I mean that I will always be with you. I appreciate it, thank you. And I'm honored to join you at the first ever Fourth of July Freedom Rally, taking place here at the Kennedy Center, as we pay tribute to those who have proudly served our nation in uniform. Thank you very much.  Tonight, we have been inspired by music that fills our heart, stirs our souls, and reminds us all of who we are: one nation, under God.  To First Baptist music director, Doran Bugg, and to every musician and member of the choir who has performed with such incredible grace and skill -- and I heard them backstage, I said let me out there that is the most beautiful music. I just want to say that your music honors our heroes more eloquently than words could ever do, and I just want to thank you. That's real talent standing behind me, thank you folks.  And let me say to the hundreds of veterans with us tonight that for my very first Independence Day celebration as President, there is no place I'd rather be than with you, tell you that.  And I promise you -- then you see it happening day by day -- just the other day, we signed veterans accountability, they've been trying to do it for 40 years.  For 40 years, they've been trying. You couldn't fire somebody, if they were horrible, doing a terrible job for the veterans -- robbing, stealing, hurting people, you couldn't do anything. It's called the Veterans Accountability Act, and now you can say, you're fired. Thank you, and I promise you that we will always take care of our great veterans, always. Right, Louie? You better believe it. And Paula's up there. Paula White has been so helpful. You've  -- thank you I love you too, actually. You've shed your blood, you've poured your love, and you've bared your soul in defense of our country, our people, and our great American flag. Your loyalty to our nation is measured not merely in words but in deeds. You race through gunfire, stare down enemy forces and ran past the gates of hell to fight and to win for America, and you won for America, and we're going to take care of it.  The story of America's men and women in uniform is the story of freedom, and overcoming oppression. The strong protecting the weak, and the good defeating evil. There's a lot of evil out there. I want to tell you there's a lot of evil. I was left a mess, the fact is, but we're cleaning it up. You watch. Cleaning it up. Cleaning it up. We are awed by your service and your sacrifice, and so to the veterans here tonight, of which there are many, will you please stand, right now? Please stand, thank you.  On behalf of our very grateful nation, thank you very much. Thank you very much. We will always, always remember what you did for us. Tonight, we celebrate veterans. We also reflect on everything we cherish as Americans. We love our country. We love our families. We love our freedom, and we love our God.  Since the signing of the Declaration of Independence 241 years ago, America always affirmed that Liberty comes from our Creator, our rights are given to us by God and no earthly force can ever take those rights away.  That is why my administration is transferring power out of Washington and returning that power back to where it belongs -- to the people. To the people. The fake media is trying to silence us, but we will not let them, because the people know the truth. The fake media tried to stop us from going to the White House, but I'm President and they're not.  We won, and they lost. The fact is the press has destroyed themselves because they went too far. Instead of being subtle and smart, they use the hatchet and the people saw it right from the beginning. The dishonest media will never keep us from accomplishing our objectives. On behalf of our great American people, will never happen. Their agenda is not your agenda. You've been saying it. I will never stop fighting for you. I am delivering on trade, on the economy, on the Supreme Court, on the Second Amendment, on our military. For our veterans and on our borders, where we are doing record, record stoppage.  Thank you, and we are supporting our incredible police and law enforcement.  We will save American lives, protect American sovereignty, and we will ensure the forgotten men and women of our country are never forgotten again. For too long, politicians have tried... all have they tried, to centralize authority among the hands of a small few in our nation's capital. I see them all the time. Bureaucrats think they can run over your lives, overrule your values, meddle in your faith and tell you how to live, what to say and where to pray. But we know that parents, not bureaucrats, know best how to raise their children and create a thriving Society.  And we know that families and churches, not government officials, know best how to create a strong and loving community. And above all else, we know this: in America, we don't worship government. We worship God.  Our religious liberty is enshrined in the very First Amendment in the Bill of Rights. The American founders invoked our Creator four times in the Declaration of Independence. Benjamin Franklin reminded his colleagues at the Constitutional Convention to begin by bowing their heads in prayer. I remind you that we're going to start saying Merry Christmas again.  True. Inscribed on our currency are the words In God We Trust. But not only has God bestowed on us the gift of freedom, he's also given us the gift of heroes willing to give their lives to defend that freedom. You just stood in every struggle against evil throughout our history, as America's service members have huddled around campfire,  and sought refuge in foxholes. They've called on their Creator for support in World War II when General George Patton -- that was a real general, we got some Pattons today too, I found them. Mad Dog Mattis.  And he doesn't like doing a lot of talking, but I want to tell you ISIS, the whole different ball game, folks. They're going fast. But when Patton ran into a problem that he couldn't solve, he knew what to do. He prayed. Frustrated by rains that were stalling the advance of his Third Army across Europe in early December 1944, horrible weather, Patton asked an Army chaplain to come up with a good prayer for the weather. Patton then had a quarter of a million copies of that prayer printed and distributed to the soldiers of the Third Army, just before the Battle of the Bulge. That was a big one, did very well there. Five hundred thousand American soldiers fought that pivotal battle of the Second World War. One of those soldiers is here with us tonight. His name is Harry F Miller, where's Harry? Where's Harry? Harry, stand up Harry.  Like many of the heroes of his generation, Harry wasn't exactly straightforward about his age when he enlisted in the Army Reserves. Shame on you. Harry, he was just 15 but he told them he was old enough to join. Then he immediately asked for a transfer to active duty six months after he had enlisted. Private Miller was on his way to Europe to fight for our country.  A couple of months after that, he was in the freezing cold. How cold? Cold, he said. Really cold and driving rain of Belgium with the 740th Tank Battalion attached to the 82nd airborne, as the Battle of the Bulge began. Harry got his orders to go find tanks at a weapon storage facility. When he arrived, he says he and his friends found nothing but tanks they were all over the place, right? Nothing but tanks. But they didn't let the tanks stop them. Out of what spare parts they could find, and through sheer grit and resolve, they somehow managed to repair three of those tanks and get them all set for action and ready to fight. And before long ,those three tanks were nose-to-nose with the lead elements of a German SS Panzer Division, and that was tough stuff. In a short time, those tanks had knocked out the first three tanks of the enemy, and the entire German division retreated. They left. That's good, Harry.  Harry fought through the battle and the rest of the war and he went on to serve our armed forces for 22 years, retiring as a Senior Master Sergeant. A lot of guts. Tomorrow, Harry will be 89. Tomorrow. So on behalf of this very large group, in this beautiful building, Senior Master Sergeant Miller, Happy Birthday. Thank you for your lifetime of service, and thank you for helping out. Thank you very much.  Every veteran with us tonight, from every branch of the military -- Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force and Coast Guard, I want you to know that we will always keep our promises to those who have kept us free. Since my very first day in office, we've taken one action after another to make sure that our veterans get the care they so richly deserve. We've published wait times -- those wait times were bad, weren't they? But boy, are they getting better and fast. And we've published them at every VA facility, delivered same day mental health services at every VA Medical Center, nearly doubled.  The number of veterans given approvals to see the doctor of their choice, and as I said, just signed, brand-new legislation went through the House, went through the Senate and I signed it so fast. We didn't want to take any chances, right Harry? To ensure every VA worker is held accountable for the quality of care they provide to our veterans.  Tonight, we are deeply honored to be joined by a number of wounded warriors from Walter Reed. I was over there recently. These are incredible people, the enthusiasm and the spirit and some of them were hurt really badly. They've got so much spirit and they love this country so much. These American heroes risked everything so that you and I can live in freedom. They gave all. They had everything for their comrades, their country and for victory. They liked winning. We like winning again, don't we?  You know, the old days, we used to win. We sort of just keep fighting and fighting and fighting. Gonna win again, folks. We applaud their strength, their courage and we really support that incredible wind that they have. The will, the will is so strong and that's what they want to do, is they want to win, and they want to win for you. So thank you all very much for being here, that was great.  One such hero is Captain Luis Avila, where is he Luis? Luis?  The ways... Wow!  Luis is here tonight along with his wife Claudia. Thank You Claudia. Thank you, darling. Thank you. Thank you. Luis served in the Army for 16 years. He held many different positions on five combat tours, and he was always a leader, and everybody always said. I did some checking on you Luis, that you did a great job no matter where you were. No matter where you went. On his fifth deployment, Luis bravely led his company on a successful mission to recover vital intelligence. During this critical mission, his vehicle was struck by explosives. Luis was gravely wounded, and lost his leg. He received a Purple Heart for service and sacrifice. To Luis and Claudia, we will never forget the courageous sacrifice that you made for all of us in this room tonight, and for everyone in our country. Thank you. Thank you.  I want you all, and all of our incredible wounded warriors, to know you have an entire nation of more than 300 million people behind you, and our nation's getting strong again. You notice getting strong again. Our hearts and our prayers are joined with yours. Your legacy, like our gratitude, will live forever, and I want to thank you. Thank you very much, and Claudia thank you very much. Thank you. I also want to speak to all of the people -- see you thought I forgot -- in our faith community, who are here with us tonight. Veterans and non-veterans alike, you're never gonna be forgotten. You'll never be forgotten. My administration will always support and defend your religious liberty.  We don't want to see God forced out of the public square, driven out of our schools, or pushed out of our civic life. We want to see prayers before football games, if they want to give prayers. We want all children to have the opportunity to know the blessings of God. We will not allow the government to censor sermons, to restrict the free speech of our pastors and our preachers, and the people that we most respect, like Robert. That is why... just as I promised Pastor Jeffress and other faith leaders... I just signed an executive order following, and this is something that makes me very happy and very proud, following through on my campaign pledge to stop the Johnson Amendment from interfering with your First Amendment rights. As long as I am President, no one is going to stop you from practicing your faith or from preaching what is in your heart. We want to hear him. One of the most grave and dire threats to religious freedom in the world today is the threat of terrorism, and specifically, it just seems, it's called radical Islamic terrorism, and we cannot allow this terrorism and extremism to spread in our country or to find sanctuary on our shores or in our cities. We want to make sure that anyone who seeks to join our country shares our values and has the capacity to love our people.  Thank you. Together, we will protect our families, our nations and our borders and yes, by the way for those that are curious, we will build the wall, okay? Because we understand that a country is more than just its geography. A nation is the sum of its citizens, their hopes, their dreams, their aspirations. America is a land rich with history traditions and values, and as we have seen tonight, what a group this is tonight. America is also a land rich with heroes.  And though we have many stories, we all share one home and one glorious destiny, a destiny that's getting better and better. Every single day, and whether we are black or brown or white, and you've heard me say this before, we all bleed the same red blood. We all salute the same great American flag, and we are all made by the same Almighty God.  We face many challenges. There are many hills and mountains to climb, but with the strength and courage of the Patriots assembled in this room tonight, we will scale -- I mean, and you say it, and you see it all the time, and we're doing it all the time, because we're scaling those summits, and we will get the job done. We will all prove worthy of this very important moment in history, and we will prove worthy of the sacrifice that our brave veterans have made. As long as we have pride in our beliefs, courage in our convictions, and faith in our God, we will not fail.  As long as our country remains true to its values, loyal to its heroesm and devoted to its creator, then our best days are yet to come. Because we will make America great again.  Thank you. To my friend Pastor Jeffress, and to Paula and to Louie  and to Harry and to Luis, and everybody in this room, and everybody in this country, thank you for your great support. I appreciate it. I will not let you down -- all of our incredible veterans -- the people in the military and -- evangelical Christians who came out in record, record, record numbers. Thank you. Have a wonderful Independence Day. God bless you. God bless our nation's veterans. God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you."
"Thank you, everybody. It is great to be back in the great state of Iowa...  ... home of the greatest wrestlers in the world, including our friend Dan Gable, some of the great, great wrestlers of the world, right? We love those wrestlers. It's always terrific to be able to leave that Washington swamp...  ... and spend time...  ... with the truly hardworking people. We call them American patriots. Amazing people.  I want to also extend our congratulations this evening to Karen Handel of Georgia.  And we can't forget Ralph Norman in South Carolina. He called me and I called him...  He said, you know, last night I felt like the forgotten man. But he won, and he won really beautifully. Even though most people, a lot of people didn't show up because they thought he was going to win by so much. It's always dangerous to have those big leads. But he won very easily. And he is a terrific guy. And I'll tell you what, Karen is going to be really incredible. She's going to be joining some wonderful people and doing some wonderful work including major, major tax cuts and health care and lots of things.  Going to be reducing crime and we're securing that Second Amendment. I told you about that. And that looks like it's in good shape with Judge Gorsuch. That looks like it's in good shape.  I'd like to also take this moment to send our thoughts and prayers to our courageous friend, somebody that I've gotten to know very well, Steve Scalise, and everyone...  ... recovering from the assault.  Never fails. Never fails.  And we love our police. We love our police.  So, to Steve we say -- and he's a great guy, was in my office the day before, incredible. We're praying for you. We're pulling for you. You have our absolute support and our deepest admiration.  And our gratitude goes out tonight as well to the Capitol Police officers who saved so many lives. You know, they ran from the outfield and they were being hit by rifle fire. They only had handguns. And they were able to get him. It was an amazing show of talent and bravery.  So, we want to thank all of the police officers who so bravely serve and protect us. Thank you very much. Thank you. Hopefully our nation emerges from this ordeal -- it was an ordeal, terrible -- more unified and more determined than ever before. And I can see it. And we are indeed more unified in our own way than ever before You just have to take a look at what's happening here. Right?  If we set aside the cynics and the critics, we have a chance, and it's a great chance. It lies before us to do extraordinary things for our country in the years ahead. History is written by the dreamers, not the doubters.  ... while we are here tonight to celebrate the amazing progress that we've already made, and we have made amazing progress...  ... we're also here to lay out the next steps in our incredible movement to make America great again. Everyone gathered in this arena is bound together by common values. You love our country. You obey our laws. You honor our traditions. And you care for your families. And you love your communities.  All you want is a government that shows you the same respect and loyalty in return. You believe that America must protect and defend its own citizens. With that conviction deep in your hearts, you showed up on Election Day, November 8th, and voted to put America first.  About time. It's about time.  And from the moment I took that solemn oath of office and every single day since, that is exactly what I've done, put America first.  After years of sending our jobs and our wealth to other countries, we are finally standing up for our country. And you see it happening. You see it happening. You see what's going on. Jobs are just about the best they've ever been. We've created almost $4 trillion in wealth if you look at your stock values and you look at what's going on with our country. But we've created tremendous wealth. The enthusiasm and spirit on every single index is higher than it's ever been before for our manufacturers and for our companies.  After spending billions of dollars defending other people's borders, we are finally going to defend our borders.  After decades of rebuilding foreign nations all over the world, we are now rebuilding our nation.  As of a few months ago, our country has spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, wasted. And the lives, the lives, thousands and thousands and thousands of lives. $6 trillion and thousands of young, beautiful lives. We started 16 years ago and it's in far worse shape than it was 16 years ago by many times over. So, we spent all of this money, all of these lives. And let me tell you, I came in and took over a very, very difficult hand. But we're going to get it fixed. That's what you put me here for. We're going to get it fixed.  We'll get it fixed. Shame. It's a shame. And then you look at North Korea -- thank you. Then you look at your -- and I'm praying for you. Thank you very much. But you look at North Korea, what's going -- look at Otto, beautiful Otto. Went over there a healthy, wonderful boy and you see how he came back. You see how he came back. So, we've been given a bad hand. But we're going to take that bad hand and it'll all be good. In addition to that, we're going to start taking care of our country.  The people are the rulers of this country once again. One by one we are keeping the promises we made to the people of Iowa and the people all over our country. We are not going to let the same failed and tired voices in Washington keep us from delivering the change you voted for and the change that you deserve, that you deserve.  I do not answer to any donors or financial contributors. I don't care about them.  I am not beholden to any consultants or any of the very powerful special interests. I don't care about them. I have to do what's right. And if they're right, that's good.  We will never be intimidated by the dishonest media corporations who will say anything and do anything  to get people to watch their screens or to get people to buy their failing papers.  They are failing. These entrenched forces are fighting only for themselves, and in many cases for their survival. But I'm fighting for you. I'm fighting for you.  Fighting for your hopes because your hopes are my hopes. I've had a great time in this country. I've had a great run. And it was time to do something. We all saw what was happening. It was time to do something. Your dreams are my dreams. And your future is what I'm focused on each and every day. We're going to make America great again. Believe me. We're going to make America great again.  Here are just some of the historic accomplishments we've achieved in just a very short period of time. And I have to just preface it by saying  Thank you, darling. I have to preface it by saying -- you know, I've been watching. They're saying, President Trump has not produced health care. You know, I've been there for five months.  If you remember during the Clinton period, they worked for years and years and years. They never got health care. Obama...  Although after listening to their testimony I fully understand. But President Obama, his whole administration pushing, pushing for Obamacare, which has now failed. In fact, I was just told by your great governor and ex-governor that your insurance companies have all fled the state of Iowa. Pretty sad, isn't it? Well, they're -- I'll tell you what, they're going from every state. They're leaving all of the states. Obamacare is a disaster. It's over. And there's nothing to compare what we're doing. I think, I hope -- I hope the Republican Senate -- if we went and got the single greatest health care plan in the history of the world, we would not get one Democrat vote because they're obstructionists. They're obstructionists.  We wouldn't get one Democrat...  If we came to you and said here's your plan. You're going to have the greatest plan in history and you're going to pay nothing, they'd vote against it, folks.  Every, single vote. So, we have a very slim 52 to 48. That means we basically can't lose anybody. And I think and I hope, can't guarantee anything, but I hope we're going to surprise you with a really good plan. You know, I've been talking about a plan with heart. I said, add some money to it, a plan with heart. But Obamacare is dead. But it is interesting how they say, Donald Trump is not producing health care, not producing. So, we've produced so much -- I don't think any president, it could be somebody, I have to be a little careful because they'll say, he lied.  So, few presidents, few -- just have to be a little careful because they'll say, headline: Donald Trump lies to the people of Iowa. I don't want...  But very few have done what we've done when you look at the regulations, when you look at all of -- you know, they were saying, but he didn't pass legislative bills. I think it's 38. And we're going to be talking about them, 38. And if you listen to them...  Thirty-eight. But, but, but...  And some of them are really big, having to do with regulation, having to do with lots of different things. But, we're working really hard on massive tax cuts. It would be, if I get it the way I want it, the largest tax cut in the history of the United States of America.  Because... right now, we are one of the highest taxed nations in the world. Really on a large-scale basis, we are the highest tax nation in the world. And we're going to get it down really low, OK? Really -- I don't say the lowest because there are a couple that are really down there. But that doesn't mean you want to be there. But we're going to have one of the lowest taxes from the highest tax. And we're working hard on it. And I think it's going to happen. And I tell you, I think health care's going to happen. And infrastructure's going to happen. You're going to have a lot of exciting things over the next few months. And I look forward to being able to produce it. Let's see what happens.  And by the way, if we had even a little Democrat support, just a little like a couple of votes, you'd have everything. And you could give us a lot of votes and we'd even be willing to change it and move it around and try and make it even better. It's going to have good heart, but even better. But again, they just want to stop. They just want to obstruct. A few votes...  Seriously. A few votes from the Democrats, it could be so easy and so beautiful and you'd have cooperation. And their plan isn't working because they thought they were going to win last night in Atlanta. They thought they were going to win.  And they've been unbelievably nasty, really nasty. And they thought -- they spent close to $30 million on this kid who forgot to live in the community that he was in. I mean, you know.  Look, I'll tell you about the Democrats. I am making it a little bit hard to get their support, but who cares?  I'll tell you about the Democrats. They raised a fortune for him. They fought like hell. They said they were going to win. All of the television networks, other than Fox, which really has treated us fairly, by the way.  But they built these studios, CNN...  Hey. Their camera just went off. I can't imagine.  It's covered live. Their camera just went off. I can't imagine why. This phony -- this phony NBC television network.  They actually had one of the people say, you know, it was a little rainy last night. Maybe that was the difference in Karen's race. Can you believe that? But, but they had these beautiful studios. And if Karen Handel had lost, they would've blamed it on me, which is fine. But if she had lost, they would've been there for weeks talking about this. This would've been the greatest defeat in the history of American politics. When she won, when they said projected winner is Karen Handel. Then they said, we switch to another program. Right? So...  It was so short. They couldn't get out of there fast enough. And don't forget, this happened in Montana. Right? In Kansas...  Last night South Carolina with Ralph, who was expected to win and he won. California. So. But it's been -- it's been incredible. So, we're 5 and 0. We're 5 and 0. And...  And they thought they were going to win at least like three, right, wouldn't you say? At least three. And it would be a devastating defeat. The truth us, people love us, all of us. They love us.  They don't get it. They haven't figured it out yet. You know, they're still trying to figure where all of those voters came from. Those voters came out of the hills. They came -- these are hardworking -- we have the hardest working, the smartest people, the toughest people. They're very lucky that our people don't protest, believe me. Believe me.  They're very lucky.  We have them. We have the smart ones. We have the toughest ones. Great, great Americans. And Hillary said the deplorables. These are just the opposite, believe me, of the deplorables. These are just the opposite.  We have a group, Bikers for Trump. You ever seen? They come by the thousands. Oh.  Oh. My man. Look. How are you? We have the -- I didn't know you were here. They're here. Now we know we're protected. That's great. Good to have you, man. These are great people. And when I see them, I say, now we're safe. And they like Trump. And I guess we're well into the 90s. What do you think? The 90s, 95s. But we love our people. And they love us. And more importantly, they love our policy. They love what we're doing. You see what we're doing. You see what we've already done. Homebuilders are starting to build again. We're not confiscating their land with ridiculous rules and regulations that don't make sense. Farmers are able to plow their field.  If they have a puddle in the middle of their field, a little puddle the size of this, it's considered a lake and you can't touch it. And if you touch it, bad, bad things happen to you and your family. We got rid of that one too, OK?  Unemployment is at a 16-year low. And manufacturing is doing phenomenally. And we have companies moving back. They're coming back, back, back.  You know, in the state of Michigan, which has just been like an exit pool where car companies have left. I told them, you know what, you want to start leaving, you want to fire all these people? You watch what we're going to be doing. You watch what we're going to be doing. Not going to be too long. We have the legendary Wall Street genius Wilbur Ross here. He's our secretary of Commerce.  We have Gary Cohn who's the president of Goldman Sachs. That's somebody. He's the president of Goldman Sachs. He had to pay over $200 million in taxes to take the job, right? So, somebody said, why did you appoint a rich person to be in charge of the economy?  I said -- no, it's true. And Wilbur's a very rich person in charge of Commerce. I said, because that's the kind of thinking we want. I mean, you know, really. Because they're representing the country. They don't want the money. They're representing the country.  And they had to give up a lot to take these jobs. They gave up a lot. When you get the president, this is the president of Goldman Sachs, smart. Having him represent us. He went from massive pay days to peanuts, to little, tiny -- I'm waiting for them to accuse him of wanting that little amount of money. They wanted that. But these are people that are great, brilliant business minds. And that's what we need. That's what we have to have so the world doesn't take advantage of us.  We can't have the world taking advantage of us anymore.  And I love all people, rich or poor. But in those particular positions, I just don't want a poor person. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? If you insist, I'll do it. But I like it better this way, right? So, we've achieved a historic increase in defense spending. And we've created a new Office of Accountability at the V.A., our veterans, to ensure that our veterans...  ... get the care that they so richly deserve, our veterans. We've eliminated restrictions on the production of American energy. They wanted to take away our wealth. The world wanted to take away our wealth. We happened to be lucky. Under our feet we have great wealth. Not only in the form of your kind of wealth, which is beautiful, fertile soil, but also in other locations in the form of energy. They wanted to take that power and that wealth away from us. And we've ended the war on clean, beautiful coal. And we're putting our miners back to work.  In fact, you read about it, last week a brand, new coal mine just opened in the state of Pennsylvania, first time in decades, decades.  And 33,000 mining jobs have been added since my inauguration.  And again, we're going to have all forms of energy. But coal is something we have a tremendous advantage at. But we're going to have all, whether it's natural gas, whether it's alternative sources. We're going to have everything. But a power, it's called, it's a power for our electric different plants and for our furnaces. It's a power. We use electric. We use wind. We use solar. We use coal. We use natural gas. We will use nuclear if the right opportunity presents itself. We're going to be strong for the future. We're going to be strong for the future. I don't want to just hope the wind blows to light up your homes and your factory.  As the birds fall to the ground.  But I like all of them. And that's what we need. And by the way, we're saving your ethanol industries in the state of Iowa, just like I promised I would do in my campaign.  And believe me, they are under siege, folks. I don't know if you know it, but they are under siege. We've approved, first day, the Keystone XL Pipeline and the Dakota Access Pipeline. First thing. Day one.  Thirty-eight thousand jobs. And better for the environment, by the way, better. Underground. Better for the environment. And safer. Can you imagine the executive for Keystone, who a year-and-a-half ago was told it's dead? And they had billions invested. They bought half of the pipe. And somebody walks into his office, probably a consultant that charged him tens of millions of dollars. Sir, the pipeline was just approved. Now, you know what he's going to do. He said, I did a great job, sir. I'm entitled to millions of dollars in consulting fees. It was just Trump approving the pipeline. We approved it. We approved it. It's good for the country.  My man. And by the way, speaking of that, when I'm signing for the XL Pipeline and the Dakota, I said, by the way, who made the pipe? You don't want to know.  Donald Trump Now, in all fairness to them, they bought a lot of their pipe already. So, it's a little hard to say throw that away, we're giving you, you know. But I put a little clause, handwritten. It said, anybody builds a pipeline in the United States will use American steel and fabricate in America.  No more taking it over on boats.  We signed 39 pieces of legislation. That means going through Congress, folks. Because you know they tell you, these guys, the fake news. They tell you...  Not all of it. Some of it's good. And some of the people are great, actually. But some are real bad and they're really fake. But if you listen to them, we didn't pass any -- we passed 39 -- I'm not talking about executive orders, which we've signed a lot. I mean, we have really signed a lot. And we've gotten rid of a lot of really bad pieces that were signed by President Obama, believe me.  But, if you listen to the fake news, they say like, he didn't pass any legislation. Everything's -- that's wrong. Thirty-nine pieces as of today, some of them very important. Now, my biggest pieces are yet to come. Hopefully taxes. Hopefully health care. Hopefully infrastructure. And when they come, that won't be good enough either. See who it was.  But we've also done a record number of resolutions to eliminate the job-killing regulations on our workers, our companies and our farmers. They're gone. They're gone.  We are ending the federal intrusion into your family farms and your ranches.  And we're also working very, very hard to get rid of the death tax so that you can pass your farms onto your children and onto your grandchildren.  I don't know if we're going to pull that one off, but we're working very hard to do it. Right, Chris?  This way you can pass your motorcycle on, OK. Forget about the farm. That's not so bad either. I've seen what you -- what you ride. Not so bad. But we're working on -- I don't know if that one's going to get pulled off, but it should because you should have a right. Why should you be double taxed? You should have a right to pass your farm onto your children and onto your grandchildren. You should have that right.  Without having them...  Without having them going out and borrowing a fortune, not being able to make payments, losing it to the banks. It's not fair. So, we're working hard. Let's see if we pull it off. We're going to try very hard, I can tell you. I don't know, but we're going to try.  No longer will the EPA be telling you how to run your business or do your job or live your life. Instead, it will focus on its true mission, clean air and clean, beautiful, crystal water. Nice, beautiful, clean water. That's what we want, right? Right?  We're also ending the last administration's federal land grab. We believe states, communities and private land owners know best how to manage their own resources. We've made a lot of progress in that, Ryan Zinke. We want to see local control. That also means we're not going to let foreign bureaucrats plan our economy or tell Americans how to run their country.  You know what I mean.  When I campaigned for president, I promised to renegotiate or to leave any deal which fails to serve America's interests. And I'm not going to allow other countries to take advantage of the United States any longer. And for that reason...  ... I totally cut off negotiations. I will not do our great, what is it? TPP? Yes? You guys weren't listening about it huh?  But for that reason -- and that too. As you know, I formally announced that the United States will withdraw from the disastrous Paris Climate Accord...  It's a disaster. It's a disaster.  And by the way, Trans-Pacific Partnership, we don't even talk about it anymore because that was done early. But Trans-Pacific Partnership, bye-bye. That was another NAFTA catastrophe that we're going to, by the way, renegotiate. You know I announced I'm going to get rid of NAFTA. And I've always told you -- or either renegotiate or terminate NAFTA. So, I announced that essentially I was going to terminate. But I got a very, very nice call from Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada...  ... a good guy, of Mexico asking me not to terminate it, could we negotiate? And I'm always willing to negotiate.  I'm always willing. So, we'll see.  We'll see how it ends.  But it's been very unfair to the United States. All you have to do is look at all the empty buildings, all the empty plants and factories all over the country. NAFTA has been a disaster. So, we're going to either renegotiate it successfully, which would be my first choice. Or we're going to terminate it and that's going to be that.  Now, the Paris Agreement, and it's amazing how the people of this country get it because the press covers it so unfairly. The Paris Agreement would've cost America millions of lost jobs and billions and billions of lost dollars, and put us at a permanent economic disadvantage. China doesn't kick in until 2030. I could tell you stories. I could give you stats. I could go on all day. It's a catastrophe if we would've agreed. And they all say it's nonbinding. Like hell it's nonbinding. When we get sued by everybody because we thought it was nonbinding, then you can tell me it was nonbinding. I was elected to serve the citizens of Iowa and Pennsylvania and Ohio and Michigan...  ... and Wisconsin and Florida and all 50 states and all 320 million American citizens.  By the way, this is a big place. This place. And you know, I used to say during the campaign, I'm sure it hasn't changed. But we're not even campaigning and look at this crowd. So, you know it's easier during a campaign. The place is packed with thousands of people trying to get in. Look at the size of this place. They'll never show the crowd.  They'll never show the crowd. They'll never show the crowd. That's the only good thing about the protesters, which we don't have very much of. I mean, this guy's blowing a whistle, you know.  He's the Bernie Sanders guy.  But, but we don't have -- but when we do have one, the only good thing is the cameras have to go, and they have to go sometimes up into the little corners way up in that arena. Every seat is packed. Look at that.  Every seat. Every corner is packed of this big, big arena. So, it's an honor. Wouldn't it be great if they showed -- you know, it's funny, I go home and my wife would say, Melania, who, by the way, has become very popular.  They're liking her. They're liking her.  But she'd say, I never saw the crowd, but it sounded like a lot of people. You know, you could tell. You can't imitate the sound of this many people. This is not like 500 people. This is big stuff. You can't imitate that. You know what they don't understand? They get these massive ratings. I hate to give it. They probably charge a -- I know they charge a fortune. But all those television cameras, all those live ones. And I hate to do this, but they get even better ratings if they show that. And I try and convince them, but that they can't do. They just can't mentally handle that one, so it's whatever.  But it is, it's such a great crowd. So, to all of those people watching, it's an unbelievable place. It is a big, beautiful arena and it is packed.  So, as you may know, there is another absolutely terrible deal from the previous administration. See how nice I am? I say the previous administration as opposed to the Obama administration.  That I have recently rescinded. Last week I announced that we are canceling the prior administration's completely one-sided deal with the Castro regime in Cuba.  Isn't it amazing? Obama can deal with Cuba, kills thousands of people, people in prison, horrible to women, horrible to every -- can deal with Iran. You talk about bad? The gays, the women, the -- bad to everybody, kill, brutal. I deal with anybody, but Donald Trump is a terrible human being. It's unbelievable isn't it? Isn't it unbelievable?  It's unbelievable. But America will stand strong against Communist oppression. We will make a much better deal. I mean, the fact is the deal with Cuba's a bad deal. We'll probably make a deal. Or maybe we won't. Maybe we won't. But you know what? If we make a deal, it's going to be a fair deal and a good deal for us. It's not going to be a one-sided giveaway.  We're also fighting every single day to achieve those fair trade deals for American factories, and your farmers and your ranches. Heading up our effort to represent America's interest in China will be a man you know very well. I just left an event where I honored him, introduced him to a crowd of people that adore him. To discuss how to create -- I mean, he's been doing this for years in Iowa. He's the longest serving governor in American history. And now he carries the title of Ambassador to China, Terry Branstad.  He's a fantastic guy. You know I told the story today. I said, I come here to make a speech. We have a big crowd in Iowa. And Terry would come and say -- at that time he didn't call me Mr. President. He called me Donald. I said, that's OK. I didn't think about. Now if he called me Donald I'd be very angry with him, right?  But he said, Donald, could you do me a favor? Don't say anything bad about China. We do a lot of business with China. I like China a lot. I've known President Xi for a long time. I really like him. And he also, by the way, likes Terry a lot. And just please don't say anything bad about China. Which is hard for me to do.  And I wouldn't. But then when I won and were looking for somebody to represent us with China, which is a very, very powerful country, and we've had a very good relationship with China, in all fairness, and I do like President Xi. I wish we would have a little more help with respect to North Korea from China, but that doesn't seem to be working out.  But I do like the president a lot. So, when I was thinking of who am I going to make the ambassador to China, after you know, having a good, retentive mind. I said you know I remember about a year ago when Terry Branstad was saying all of these great things, your governor. So, I called him up and I said listen, you've been doing this for 24 years. You want to do something else? Like how would you like to be ambassador to China? And I didn't think he'd really do it.  It's a long trip. Twenty-one hours? That's a lot of plane time. But he wants to do what's right for the country. And I said to him tonight, I said, I wasn't sure you were going to do it. He said, when my president calls me to help him with our great country, I do it. That's what he said to me. I thought it was nice.  Thought it was nice. Right?  So, central to that economic agenda is a plan to restore America's crumbling infrastructure. We will rebuild not only America, but we will rebuild rural America.  In this great national rebuilding, we will follow two simple rules. We will buy American and we will hire American.  We want to get our people off of welfare and back to work.  We also want to preserve our safety net for struggling Americans who truly need help. We want to help them, people who truly need help, right, Chris? We want to help those people.  But others don't treat us fairly. That's why I believe the time has come for new immigration rules which say that those seeking admission into our country must be able to support themselves financially and should not use welfare for a period of at least five years.  And we'll be putting in legislation to that effect very shortly. Another core principle is that those coming to our country must embrace our values and love our people.  And yes, we will build the wall. We've already started planning. It will be built.  We will build the wall. We need it. We need it. We have to stop the drugs from flowing in. You know, people don't realize, we're already spending a lot of money on design. But I'll give you an idea that nobody has heard about yet. And I'm not sure, but I'm a builder. That's what I love to do. That's probably what I do best. I'm a builder. And we're thinking of something that's unique. We're talking about the southern border, lots of sun, lots of heat. We're thinking about building the wall as a solar wall so it creates energy and pays for itself.  And this way, Mexico will have to pay much less money. And that's good, right? Is that good.  You're the first group I've told that to, a solar wall. Makes sense. Let's see. We're working it out. We'll see. Solar wall, panels, beautiful. I mean actually think of it. The higher it goes, the more valuable it is. It's like...  Pretty good imagination, right? Good? My idea. So, we have a good shot. That's one of the places "
"Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. It is truly great to be back in the wonderful, beautiful state of Pennsylvania.  I love this state, and I love the people of this state. It is special, and it carried us to a big, beautiful victory on November 8.  I want to recognize some of our friends that have helped us so much. Congressman Scott Parent, GT Thompson, a couple of my originals, Mike Kelly, who I watched on television. He was great. Where is Mike Kelly? Where is he? Boy, were you great on television this morning. And of course, one of our other originals, Congressman Tom Marino. Right?  Thank you, thank you. As you may know, there is another big gathering taking place tonight in Washington DC. Did you hear about it?  A large group of Hollywood actors --  -- and Washington media --  -- are consoling each other in a hotel ballroom in the nation's capital right now. They are gathered together for the White House Correspondent's Dinner -- without the President.  And I could not possibly be more thrilled that to be more than 100 miles away from Washington's swamp, spending my evening with all of you, and with a much, much larger crowd and much better people. Right? ... USA, USA, USA. And look at the media back there. They would actually rather be here, I have to tell you.  Media outlets like CNN and MSNBC are fake news. Fake news.  And they are sitting -- and they are wishing -- in Washington. They are watching right now, they are watching, and they would love to be with us right here tonight.  but they are trapped at the dinner, which will be very, very boring. But next year, maybe we will make it more exciting for them in Washington and we'll show up. But we have a good chance of showing up here again next year, too.  The truth is, there is no place I would rather be than right here in Pennsylvania to celebrate.  -- our 100-day milestone, to reflect on an incredible journey together, and to get ready for the great, great battles to come, and that we will win and every case. Ok? We will win.  Because make no mistake, we are just beginning in our fight to make America great again.  Now before we talk about my first 100 days, which has been very exciting and very productive, let's rate the media's 100 days. Should we do that? Should we do it?  Because as you know, they are a disgrace. According to a Morning Consult call, more than half of Americans say the media is out of touch with everyday Americans. They've proven that.  According to Media Research Center, 89% of the media's coverage of our administration has been negative and purposefully negative, and perhaps --  -- that's because according to the Center for Public Integrity, 96% of journalists who gave donations gave them to our opponent. And does anyone were member who our opponent was? Lock her up, lock her up, lock her up. That was some opponent. Finally, according to a poll last year from the Associated Press, only 6% of Americans have a lot of confidence in America. That is very bad. That is much lower than Congress, by the way. But I will give you an example of something really incredible.  That's right. Get them out of here. Get them out.  ... USA, USA, USA. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.  Do we love our law enforcement or what?  And I want to thank the fire marshals. They have a lot of people standing outside. We really maxed out. We broke the all-time record for this arena. How old is this arena? We broke the all-time record. I don't have a guitar, which is pretty tough. So, ust as an example of media, take the totally failing New York Times.  Pretty soon they will only be on the internet. The paper is getting smaller and smaller. Do you ever notice? It is starting to look like a comic book. It's getting... But I will tell you, because I watched, and I used to be in the real estate business, they sold their beautiful New York Times building in Manhattan, a cathedral to journalism. Such a beautiful, beautiful building. For around $130 million, and the group that bought it later sold it for approximately $500 million. Now they live in a very ugly office building in a crummy location. Next, they buy The Boston Globe newspaper, with lawsuits ,for $1.3 billion and invest millions and millions of dollars to get it going. In the end, they sell it for zero. They give it away. And then they write nasty editorials and op-ed telling me how I should be handling world events.  But that is what we have. They are incompetent, dishonest people who after the election, had to apologize because they covered it, us me, so badly that they felt they were forced to apologize because their predictions were so bad. Do you are member their prediction? -- Do you remember their production? They lost a lot of people because of the way they covered. So here's the story. If the media's job is to be honest and tell the truth, then I think we would all agree the media deserves a very, very big, fat, failing grade.  Very dishonest people. And not all of them. You we call it the fake news. Now -- we call it the fake news. Now everybody is using the word fake news. Where did you hear it, folks? By contrast, for the last 100 days, my administration has been delivering every single day for the great citizens of our country, whether it is putting our coal miners back to work, protecting America's steel and aluminum workers -- we love that steel and aluminum -- or eliminating job killing regulations, we are keeping one promise after another, and frankly, the people are really happy about it. They see what is happening.  But to understand the historic progress we have made, we must speak honestly about the situation that we and I inherited because, believe me, the previous administration gave us a mess.  For decades, our country has lived through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. You people know it better than anybody in Pennsylvania. Our factories were shuttered. Our steel mills close down, and our jobs were stolen away and shipped far away to other countries, some of which you have never even heard of. Politicians send troops to protect the borders of foreign nations, but left America's borders wide open for all to violate.  We have spent billions and billions of dollars on one global project after another, and yet, as gangs flooded into our country, we couldn't even provide safety for our own people. Our government rushed to join international agreements where the United States pays the cost and bears the burden while other countries get the benefits and pay nothing.  This includes deals like the one-sided Paris Climate Accord. Where the United States pays billions of dollars while China, Russia, and India have contributed and will contribute nothing.  Does that remind you of the Iran deal? How about that beauty? On top of that, it is estimated that full compliance with the agreement could ultimately shrink America's GDP by $2.5 trillion over a 10-year period. That means factories and plants closing all over our country. Here we go again. Not was me, folks.  Those are the facts, whether we like them or not. The dishonest media won't print them, won't report them because the Washington media is part of the problem. Their priorities are not my priorities, and they are not your priorities, believe me.  Their agenda is not your agenda. I will be making a big decision on the Paris Accord over the next two weeks.  And we will see what happens. But they are all part of a broken system that has profited from this global theft and plunder of American wealth at the expense of the American worker. We are not going to let other countries take advantage of us anymore because, from now on, it is going to be America first.  and I have to -- ... USA, USA, USA. And I have to just interject because, as you know, I have been a big critic of China. And I have been talking about currency manipulation for a long time. But I have to tell you, during the election, number one, they stopped. But more importantly, just to show you the dishonesty -- we have currency manipulation by China -- but China is helping us possibly or probably with the North Korean situation. Ok? It's a great thing.  and I met with the President of China at great length in Florida. We had long, long talks. Hours and hours and hours. He's a good man. He's representing China, not us, but he's a good man. And I believe he wants to get that situation taken care of. They have tremendous power, and we will see what happens. But the media said Donald Trump refuses to name China a currency manipulator. Think of this. We have to have a little flexibility. So I meet with the President of China and say, could you help us out with North Korea? You give them 93% of their different materials they need in their food. You have a lot of power. We have a great relationship. Then the media says, why didn't he call Donald Trump, and why did Donald Trump in the meeting say you are a currency manipulator? So here's the story. Listen, Mr. President, will you help us out with North Korea? But by the way, you are manipulating your currency. It doesn't work, right? So, So...  You understand. So instead of saying that, let's see what happens. I honestly believe he is trying very hard. Not an easy situation for China, believe me. Not an easy situation. But we have somebody there who is causing a lot of trouble for the world. We have China, who is really trying to help. As you have seen, they have set back vast amounts of coal coming to North Korea. So let's see what happens. I think it is not exactly the right time to call China a currency manipulator right now. Do we agree with that?  But they never say that. So I promise you in my inaugural address 100 days ago that now arrives the hour of action. And believe me, we've started from day one, that is what we have delivered. 100 days of action. Those people and others are exhausted. They've never seen anything like that. They've never seen anything like this.  We are ending the off-shoring and bringing back our beautiful, wonderful, great American jobs.  We are eradicated the criminal gangs and cartels that have infiltrated our country. You are reading about them all the time. Some of you have big problems with them. Thank you for that sign, Blacks for Trump. I love that guy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, man. That is great. That is really cool. I appreciate it. And we are taking steps to renegotiate or cancel any agreement that fails to protect American interests. Here are just some of our great achievements from the first 100 days. And I will tell you, in addition to that, we have built such a strong foundations with the leaders of foreign countries, and we are set to rock. But we have great relationships with Germany and Japan and China and so many others The U.K. -- such great relationships. That is part of the process. We have appointed and confirmed a brand-new justice of the United States Supreme Court.  Justice Neil Gorsuch, who will uphold the constitution and the right of Americans to govern their own affairs, and the last time a new Supreme Court Justice was confirmed in the first 100 days was 136 years ago in 1881, and I was devastated to hear that because I thought I would be the only one to have done that.  It was a long time ago. To protect our jobs and economic freedom, I immediately withdrew the United States from the horrible, disastrous, would have been another NAFTA, but worse, Trans-Pacific Partnership.  That would have taken your jobs in Pennsylvania, that I can tell you. That was a total hoax. The TPP what have been a tremendous disaster for our country, and we are not going to surrender Pennsylvania jobs ever again. We have done that once before. It is not going to happen.  we have just launched an investigation into foreign steel dumping and aluminum dumping throughout our country. We are reviewing every single trade deal, and wherever there is sheeting, we would take immediate action, and there will be penalty.  And we have with us tonight Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, and one of the great, great people on fair trade and good trade, Mr. Peter Navarro. Thank you. Thank you.  And we will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don't get a good deal and a fair deal for our country -- and I have been saying for a long time we will either renegotiate or terminate -- I announced the other day we were going to terminate, everybody said we would terminate -- two people I like very much, the President of Mexico and Prime Minister of Canada, called up and said, can we negotiate? I said yes, we can renegotiate. So we will start a renegotiation, and hopefully it will be fair for everybody. And if it is not a fair deal for our country -- because you have to understand, we have been on the wrong side of the NAFTA deal with Canada and Mexico for many, many years. Many decades. We can't allow it to happen. So we are going to renegotiate, and if we can't make a fair deal for companies and workers, we will terminate NAFTA. Ok?  Our directives will let brand-new Pennsylvania steel into the spine of America.  We've ordered billions and billions of dollars in unpaid duties to be collected at the border from countries that break the rules, and that just started. It is going to be a lot coming in.  We just want fairness, and I followed through on my promise and issued a new government directives to buy American and hire American.  In just these first few months, we have created 99,000 new construction jobs, 49,000 new manufacturing jobs, and 27,000 new mining jobs. Who are the miners here? Finally we are taking care of our miners. We love our miners. And we have over 600,000 new jobs. And by the way, the stock market since our election --  -- is through the roof. I believe from the point of the election -- isn't it too bad that the Obama administration gets a lot of credit for those few months? But it's all right.  They get credit with -- get credit for it. We have an all-time record for the biggest increase in the stock market. So I am very happy about that.  We have removed the shackles on energy exploration imposed by the last administration, lifting the restrictions on the production of oil, shale, and natural gas. And very importantly for Pennsylvania, we have ended the war on beautiful, clean coal, and we are putting our coal miners back to work.  we love our miners. I am also very pleased to say that we have finally cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access piplines.  48,000 new jobs. They couldn't get their approvals. We got them their approvals in 24 hours one day. -- 24 hours, one day. I want to tell you, the heads of those two companies didn't know what the hell happened. They said, how did this happen? They should go to bed and say their prayers. But that is going to be approximately 48,000 jobs. My administration has also scrapped a job killing regulation that was threatening our auto workers. We want more cars made in the USA, and that is going to happen.  We have created a new rule which requires that for every one new regulation, to old regulations -- two old regulations must be eliminated. And we have signed massive executive orders clearing up the environmental bureaucracy. We are going to have jobs, and you're seeing them already. We have also been very busy on the legislative front, which we have got no credit for, and yet I am signing away. I have signed 29 new bills, a record not surpassed since the Truman administration.  This includes 13 resolutions to eliminate intrusive federal regulations, the most ever signed in our history. In keeping our promise to our veterans, I have signed legislation to extend veterans choice, and the head of the veteran's administration is here with us tonight, David Chilton. He did an incredible job. We have increased by 42% the approval for veterans using the Choice program. I have also created an office of accountability at the VA. Our message to federal workers is clear: If you fail our veterans, you will be held accountable.  To create accountability across government, I have issued a five-year ban on federal officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service. Good?  I have got a lot of people in my staff that are not exactly happy with that one, but that is ok. And I have issued a lifetime ban on federal officials becoming lobbyists for a foreign government.  I have imposed these bans for a simple reason. It is time to drain the swamp.  and that is what we are doing in Washington DC. Perhaps in no area have passed governments sold out since the -- sold out special interest in foreign lobbyists than on the issue of immigration. Year after year, you pleaded for Washington to enforce our laws as illegal immigration surged, refugees flooded in, and lacks vetting -- and lax vetting threaten to your safety and security. And don't worry, we are going to have the wall. Don't worry about it.  ... Build that wall, built that wall, built that wall. We have done so well at the border, a lot of people are saying, wow, maybe the President doesn't need the wall. We need the wall to stop the drugs and human trafficking. We need the wall. In just 100 days, we have taken historic steps to secure our border, imposed needed immigration control like you have never seen before -- is that true? And properly screened and vet those seeking admission into our country. They are going to come in because they love our country. We are not taking them otherwise. We are operating on a very simple principle that our immigration system should put the needs of American workers, American families, American companies, and American citizens first.  I have appointed a great military general, John Kelly, to lead the Department of Homeland Security. Since my election, we have already achieved an unprecedented 73% reduction in illegal crossing on our southern border.  The greatest reduction in the history of our country, and we just started. The world is getting the message. If you try to illegally enter the United States, you will be caught, detained, deported, or put in prison, and it will happen.  As I campaigned across the nation, I met with the grieving mothers and fathers of children who had been killed, viciously killed, violently killed by a legal immigrants. And I made them a promise. We will protect American lives. Your family member will not have died in vain.  Last week, we opened an office to support the victims of immigration crime, called Voice to make sure that no American victim is ever again ignored by their government -- not going to happen anymore. And many people are now talking, as I just said, and using this tremendous early progress on the border to say we don't need the kind of safety that we really do need, including the wall. We need safety. We need cameras. We need all of the things that we are going to be putting in, and we need the wall. And we will build the wall as sure as you are standing there tonight. We need the wall.  ... Build that wall, build that wall, build that wall. We will build a wall folks don't even worry about it. Go to sleep. Go home, go to sleep, rest assured. That's the final thing we needed. We need it. If the Democrat knew what the hell they were doing, they would approve it so easy because we want to stop crime in our country. Obviously, they don't mind illegals coming in. They don't mind drug pouring in. They don't mind MS-13 coming in. We are getting them all out of here. Members of congress who will be voting on border security have a simple choice. They can either vote to help drug cartels and criminal aliens trying to enter the United States, like frankly, the Democrats are doing, or they can vote to help American citizens and American families be safe. That is the choice. Who do you want to represent you?  Unfortunately, Democrats in congress have no leadership. They are rudderless. Senator Schumer is a bad leader.  I have known him a long time. He is a bad leader, not a natural leader at all. He worked hard to study leadership. When you have to study leadership, you've got problems. And his policies are hurting innocent Americans and making it easier for drug dealers to enter our country. Schumer is weak on crime and wants to raise your taxes through the roof.  He is a poor leader -- I've known him a long time -- and he is leading the Democrats to doom. It is sad to see for our country what is happening to the Democratic party. At the heart of my administration's efforts to restore the rule of law has been a nationwide crackdown on criminal gangs, and that means taking the fight to the sanctuary cities that shield these dangerous criminals from removal.  The last very weak administration allowed thousands and thousands of gang members to cross our borders and enter into our communities, where they reached have it on our citizens -- where they wreaked havoc on our citizens. The bloodthirsty cartel known as MS-13 has infiltrated our schools, threatening innocent children. We have seen the horrible assaults and many killings all along Long Island where I grew up. We are seeing the vicious spread of transnational gangs into all 50 states and the human suffering they bring with them. I have been with the parents. It is devastation. A very respected general recently told me that MS-13 are the equivalent in their meanness to Al-Qaeda.  My administration will not rest until we have dismantled these violent gangs, and we are doing it rapidly, and we are sending them the hell out of our country. We are sending them back home where they belong.  One by one, we are finding the illegal immigrant drug dealers come again members and killers and removing them from our country. Once they are gone, you see what we are doing. They will not let them back in. They are not coming back.  In this effort to restore safety to our country, we are going to strongly support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.  I just signed an executive order directing Attorney General Jeff Sessions to combat crimes of violence against our police and the Department of Justice is now prioritizing the prosecution of criminals who attack officers of the law. And we are also working around the clock to keep our nation safe from terrorism. My administration has taken historic steps to improve screening and vetting for those seeking visas to enter the United States. We have seen the attack from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino. We have seen the bloodshed overseas. You look at what is happening in other countries. We already have enough problems to worry about in the United States, which we love so much. We don't need to be admitting people who want to oppress press, hurt or kill innocent Americans. They are not come again. -- coming in. So let me state this as clearly as I possibly can. We are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.  So I have a question for you. You have been to a lot of rallies, you have seen a lot of rallies. Is there any place like a Trump rally?  So I did this a little bit during the rally. Haven't done it in a long time. Who has heard the poem called the snake? Does anybody wants to hear it again? Are you sure?  Ok. So let's dedicate this to General Kelly, the border patrol, and the ICE ages for doing such an incredible job.  This was written by Al Wilson, a long time ago. I thought of it having to do with our borders. We know they're going to have. We're going to have problems. We have to be smart, we have to be vigilant. So, here it is, the snake. It is called ""The Snake."" On our way to work one morning, down the path along the lake a tenderhearted woman saw a poor have frozen snake, his pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Poor thing, she cried out, I will take you in, and I will take care of you. The border. Take me in, oh tender woman take me in for heaven sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a comforter of silk and laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk. She hurried home from work that night, and as soon as she arrived she found that pretty snake she taken in had been revived. Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in, for heaven sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. She clutched him to her bosom. You're so beautiful, she cried, but if I had not brought you in by now, by heavens you would have died. She stroked his pretty skin again, and kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite! Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in, sighed the vicious snake. I have saved you, cried the woman and you bit me, heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous, and now I am going to die. Oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You new damn well I was a snake before you took me in . Does that explain it, folks? Keeping America safe also means rebuilding our defenses. Under the leadership of General Mad Dog Mattis -- and he is doing great. By the way, he is the man who recommended General Kelly. I said mad dog, you have to give me a good general for the border. We have begun the process of rebuilding our military and restoring full readiness. We are also protecting taxpayer dollars. I have already saved more than $725 million on a simple order of F-35 planes. I got involved in the negotiation. And there is billions of dollars to be saved. On that and many other things. We have also stepped up the fight against ISIS and we will not stop until ISIS has been destroyed.  At the same time, we have strength and our friendships and alliances all around the world. We were very proud to quietly work with the Egyptian government last week to ensure that an American citizen, a beautiful young woman named ?Aya?? came home after being in an Egyptian prison, for the past three years.  She was going to be there for another 28 years. President Obama worked diligently for three years, did not get 'em out. I met with President el-Sisi and it worked out quickly. And he was great. And he was great about it. And not only did the court system in Egypt and president el-Sisi let her out, but they let out her husband and they let out a total of eight people that were innocent, and they are all back here right now.  Now they won't include that in the 100 days, but I am proud to have done it. She is a happy young woman, believe me. I said how tough was it in that prison? She said you don't want to know. We are also getting NATO countries to finally step up and contribute their fair share. They have begun to increase the contribution by billions of dollars. We are not going to be satisfied until everyone pays what they owe. I have been complaining about that for a long time. And it's a lot different now, but they still a lot of money America's average military and defense spending was double what all other NATO countries spent combined. Not fair. As we work to get other countries to pay their fair share abroad, we will continue our rebuilding at home. We are rebuilding everything, including our great military. We will have the finest military that we have ever had at any time in the history of our country.  Last week, my economics team outlined one of the biggest tax cuts in American history. Even bigger than that of Ronald Reagan. We are proposing major tax relief for the middle class and lowering the business tax from 35% all the way down to 15%.  You will see companies expand, companies come back into our country. Companies not leave our country anymore because taxes and regulations are so onerous. You will see what happens. Let me also be clear in saying that we are going to save Americans health care and repeal and replace that disaster known as Obamacare, which is dying, dying, dying.  Obamacare is dead anyway. You know they always like to compare -- Obamacare is dead. It is gone. The increases were massive last year and they will be bigger this year. Insurance companies are fleeing. One of the top insurers says Obamacare is in a death spiral, there is nothing they can do. They can't compare something to it because it won't be there very long. It is not working. Under Obamacare, we have seen double and triple digit hikes in premiums. Many Americans left with only a single insurer to choose from. Now many of those insurers are fleeing also. You have many like the great state of Tennessee where half of the state already has no insurance carrier. And many others. Obamacare is a catastrophe created exclusively by the Democrats in Congress. And they know it is no good. And, by the way, we're going to get something great. We're going to get premiums down, deductibles way down. We are going to take care of every single need you are going to to have taken care of. It will not cost that kind of money. We will bring it down. You're going to see it. Premiums down. We will repeal and replace Obamacare. You watch.  We are going to give Americans the freedom to purchase the health care plans they want, not the health care forced on them by the government. And I will be so angry at Congressman Kelly and Congressman Marino and all of our Congressmen in this room if we don't get this damn thing passed quickly.  They will get it done. We know them, they will get it done. In all things, we are returning power to the people where it belongs. We are going to defend the second amendment.  And your rights to keep and bear arms. We're going to bring education local, and we're going to end common core.  We are going to stop federal overreach and defend the God-given rights of every American family. Just imagine what we can accomplish if we all started working together to rebuild this nation, the nation that we so dearly love. Our jobs will come back home, are dying factories will come roaring back to life. It will be a beautiful thing to watch. This is what is going to happen in the United States of America. And it is going to happen soon. And it is actually already happening. Cities small and large will see a rebirth of hope, safety and opportunity. America's children will be taught to love the country and take pride in our great American flag.  And other countries, you seee that happening, will finally treat America and our citizens with the respect that our country and our citizens deserve. The time for all of us to remember that we are one people with one great American destiny. And that whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood of patriots.  And we all share the same glorious freedoms of our magnificent country. We are all made by the same almighty God.  As long as we remember these truths, we will not fail. We are American, and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to all of you. So with hope in our souls and patriotism in our hearts, I say these words to you tonight on 100 days of devotion, hard work and love for our great country. Together, we will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America prosper again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And he will make America great again. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you."
"Thank you. Thank you, everybody.  I am thrilled to be here in the great state of Kentucky and the beautiful city of Louisville!  And this place is packed!  There are a lot of people outside aren't getting in, but that's all right. We love them, too, right? We love them, too.  We're in the heartland of America and there is no place I would rather be than here with you tonight.  Our first Republican president, Abraham Lincoln, was born right here in Kentucky.  That's not bad. The legendary pioneer Daniel Boone helped settle the Kentucky frontier.  And the great 19th century American statesman Henry Clay represented Kentucky in the United States Congress.  Henry Clay believed in what he called the American system and proposed tariffs to protect American industry and finance American infrastructure.  I'm honored to be here today with many of your tremendous, modern-day leaders.  We're joined tonight -- and I want you to give him a nice hand because he's on our side, got to take good care of our people, right...  ...and he's got a lot of power for the people of Kentucky -- by our Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Where is he? Come here, Mitch.  Thank you, Mitch. How are you doing, Mitch? Hey, Mitch, are we going to be OK? Everything good? That health care is looking good? Good, thanks, Mitch.  And we're also very lucky to have in my Cabinet our secretary of transportation, the wonderful Elaine Chao.  Working with Secretary Chao, we're going to rebuild the crumbling infrastructure of the United States.  It's time, right? It's time.  It is time. After spending trillions and trillions of dollars overseas, it is indeed time. We are going to start taking care of our country.  Also with us this evening is your great governor, Matt Bevin. Where's Matt?  Matt! Thanks, Matt. Congressman Andy Barr and Congressman Jamie Comer.  The state motto of Kentucky is ""united we stand, divided we fall."" We are united.  Somebody from the fake media the other day asked me a question.  They said, how are the Republicans going to finally get together? I said, wait a minute, we won the presidency, we won the House, we won the Senate. I mean, right?  Actually, he was a nice guy that asked the question, but I was sort of thinking that was an interesting question because we've just about never been on a streak like this. I think 1928, that's a long time ago, and we're going to get a lot of things done. And then we're going to get to truly one of my favorite things. It's called reducing taxes.  Standing together as Americans we are going to deliver amazing things for the citizens of Kentucky and the United States. Most importantly, we are going to take power back from the political class in Washington and return that power to you the American people. It's happening. It's happening. It's happening.  It started on November 8th. Remember that beautiful, beautiful day? That beautiful day, we're going to give it back.  That was a beautiful day. They weren't giving us a lot of chance, were they? Remember? There is no path to 270, right?  Remember the line? And, you know, for the Republicans, the Electoral College was very, very hard, very hard to win. Do you remember the famous line, there is no path to 270? Well, there was a path to 306, but maybe not to 270.  But we have a lot of work to do. The fact is we inherited a mess. It's a mess. I met with the prime minister today of Iraq. I met with others, the Middle East, North Korea.  North Korea, I'll tell you what, what's happening there is disgraceful and not smart, not smart at all. So many different problems. And I'll tell you, you see what's happening with the economy. We've picked up $3 trillion in value and our companies are bringing people back to work. We have to take on every special interest that has profited from this. And, I mean, I don't mean, like, a little bit, I mean really terrible trade deals, horrible trade deals. Last year, our country lost almost $800 billion in trade. Not going to happen anymore, folks. It's not going to happen anymore.  Uncontrolled immigration, you see what's going on there. That's happening quickly. Got a little problem with the courts not wanting to give us the decisions that should be given. But we're going to win it. And the financial system stacked against the American people. These entrenched interests will do anything they can to keep the broken system in place. But they will fail and we will win because we are fighting on this side of our great American heritage.  This place is packed! I mean, I don't want to say this, we could have been watching a good basketball game tonight. But what happened? What happened? That's all right. You've done a good job, right? You've done a good job. Great team, great coach. It's all right. We are going to drain the swamp of government corruption in Washington, D.C. and we are going to keep our promises, all of the promises that we made.  We are going to massively reduce your taxes. We are going to reduce very substantially rising crime and support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.  We're going to bring accountability to the V.A. and take great care finally, finally, finally of our great veterans.  And our secretary, you wouldn't believe it, because I still don't have my Cabinet, they won't approve my Cabinet.  There is a lot of division and a lot of bad stuff going on in this country. But I'll tell you -- David, we love David, David got approved 100-to-nothing, can you believe it? Head of the V.A., secretary of the V.A.  And you watch what happens with the veterans. It's time. It's time we take care of our veterans.  We are going to rebuild the United States military finally.  I have proposed a budget that calls for one of the largest increases in defense spending history. And we need it. We need it. Got a lot of bad actors out there, folks, right?  That's time also. And it's also jobs because we're going to make this equipment right here in the USA.  And we believe in three crucial words: Peace through strength.  There's our great lieutenant governor, by the way, please.  Thank you, darling. Thank you. But we will spend our money wisely. With just one negotiation on one set of airplanes, I saved the taxpayers of our country over $700 million.  And that's just one of many. One of many. We've also kept our promise to appoint a Supreme Court justice who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.  Judge Neil Gorsuch's hearing is now under way in the Senate. And I urge members of both parties to swiftly approve his nomination. He is an outstanding man from an outstanding family with an unbelievably wonderful wife. They should approve. There's another promise that is deeply important to me and I know it is deeply important to you. We are going to put our coal miners back to work.  They have not been treated well, but they're going to be treated well now. Clean coal, right? Clean coal. I have already eliminated a devastating anti-coal regulation and that is just the beginning. You saw that. We got a lot of thank yous from a lot of great people that worked very hard and want to keep working. A lot of people are going to be put back to work, a lot of coal miners are going back to work. As we speak, we are preparing new executive actions to save our coal industry and to save our wonderful coal miners from continuing to be put out of work. The miners are coming back.  Our new EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, a Kentucky native, will turn the EPA -- environmental -- will turn the EPA from a job killer into a job creator. You watch.  Since my Inauguration, we've already added nearly a half-a- million new jobs. And that's, believe me, just the beginning, just the beginning.  And I don't know, did you see those consumer confidence levels? Matt, they're through the roof. I don't even know. I think you're doing as well in Kentucky, but I know you don't like Obamacare. I know.  Great guy. We're working to remove regulations on our auto industry so we can make more cars right here in America, including more cars in Kentucky.  We've wiped out many, many unnecessary regulations and that's just the beginning. It's continuing on a weekly basis. We're getting rid of unnecessary regulations. We're going to be good for business and we're going to be good for the workers of America.  We've also cleared the way for the Keystone and the Dakota Access Pipelines.  And as I was signing it, I said, where are they getting the steel? Where? And I said, you know what, if people want to build pipelines in the United States, they should use American steel and they should build it and create it right here. That pipe is going to be manufactured right here.  That was, like, the last minute. I'm saying, where are they buying this stuff? Like Henry Clay, we want to put our own people to work. We believe in two simple rules: buy American and hire American.  So as you folks all know, Henry Clay was a legendary Kentucky politician who became the eighth speaker of the House in 1811. You know, they compared my campaign to Jackson, President Jackson, right, of 1828. I said, can you imagine having to go back that far? And they said this was even more severe. But we did a good job. Did we do a great job together? 1828, that's a long time ago. Oh, boy. And he was a good president, right? He was a good president. Clay was a fierce advocate for American manufacturing. He wanted it badly. He said very strongly free trade, which would throw wide open our ports to foreign production, without duties while theirs remain closed to us. That was his quote. He knew all the way back, early 1800s. Clay said that trade must be fair, equal and reciprocal. Boom, he said fair, equal and reciprocal. I'm talking about reciprocal trade -- reciprocal.  I mentioned that the other day to a group in my office. We're going to be doing some trade deals as soon as we get the health care finished. Oh, I'm looking forward to these trade deals. They're the ones. Oh, there's going to be no ambiguity. But I use the word ""reciprocal."" You know, Harley-Davidson makes great motorcycles. They were in my office. They were in my office. And they came in. I said, how are you doing? Great. How's business? Great. How do you do overseas? Well, it's tough. We have some countries that charge us a $100 import tax. I said a hundred -- a 100 percent. Think of it. They want a hundred dollars on that -- 100 percent. So I said, how do you do? Not so well, it's tough. They have other countries that charge a lot. We want reciprocal. So if they're going to charge us a hundred percent, we're going to charge them a hundred percent. And you know what's going to happen? They're going to bring their hundred percent down to nothing like we charge. We can't allow that to happen. We can't allow that to happen.  In explaining his American system, Clay argued that the sole object of the tariff is to tax the produce. And remember, to tax the produce of foreign industry with the view of promoting American industry. For too long, our government has abandoned the American system. Since NAFTA was approved in 1994, the worst trade deal ever made by any country, I think, in the world, America has lost nearly one-third of its manufacturing jobs. Do not worry, we are starting on NAFTA very soon. You know, I've only been there for, what, 52 days, right?  Somebody said to me, when are you starting on NAFTA? I said, wait a minute, I did this, this, this, I've knocked out unbelievable numbers of regulations, we're negotiating much better deals, these terrible deals that were made. I've been here, like, 51 days. Give me a chance.  Oh, I look forward. We're going to do something with NAFTA that you are going to be very, very impressed with. That's going to be an easy one, folks. That's going to be an easy one. Since China joined, that's another beauty, the World Trade Organization in 2001, the United States has lost many more than 60,000 factories. We sacrificed our own middle class to finance the growth of foreign countries. But those days, ladies and gentlemen of Kentucky, are over. Is that OK?  Those days are over. It's crazy. You know what that is? Much more than 60,000 factories. You know what that is? It's, like, I said, if you have a map, how do you put that many dots on the map, right? More than 60,000 factories, but they're all coming back. You see them coming back. You see car companies that were going to build elsewhere and now they're saying that because of Trump we're going to build in Michigan, we're going to build in Ohio, we're going to build in Kentucky.  They're saying it loud and clear. Because from now on it's going to be America first, America first.  We will be, I promise you, a rich nation once again.  And we will do what we have to do. And we will not allow other countries to take advantage of us like they've been doing to a level that's hard to believe. Hard to believe. Not going to happen. Not going to happen anymore, Kentucky. Remember that, OK?  You just worry about your basketball team, I'll take care of the rest.  But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. That is why I am following through on my promise to secure, protect and defend the borders of the United States.  We will build, that's right, a great, great border wall.  And, you know, it's already out to bid. You've probably been reading, tremendous numbers of bidders. What does that mean when you have a lot of bidders? It means we're going to get it for the right price, OK? Believe me.  And we will stop the drugs that are pouring into our country and poisoning our youth and plenty of others. We're going to stop the drugs.  A lot of them are coming in from the Southern border. Since the day of my election, we've already cut illegal immigration at the Southern border by 61 percent. Think of that.  Sixty-one percent and we haven't started. And the courts are not making it easy, folks. They're not making it easy.  Terrible. Sixty-one percent. During the campaign as I've traveled all across this great country, I met with many American families whose loved ones, sons and daughters, husbands and wives, were viciously killed by illegal immigrants. Incredible. Incredible. These amazing American lives were stolen because our government refused to enforce our already-existing laws.  These American victims and their families were ignored by the media. The media doesn't want to talk about it. They don't want to talk about it. They were ignored by the consultants. They were ignored by Washington. But these Americans were not ignored by me. They were not ignored by you. You showed that on November 8th. They were not ignored by you and they will never be ignored by any of us.  As we speak tonight, we are finding the drug dealers, robbers, thieves, gang members, predators, killers and criminals of all types preying on our citizens. You've been saying it, you've been reading about it and you've been seeing it. One by one they are being tracked down and thrown the hell out of our country and we will not let them back in.  We are also working to protect our citizens from terrorism.  We have seen the devastation at home from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino and many, many other places. We've seen attacks overseas in France, in Germany, in Belgium. It's time for intelligence and common sense to be used.  The single-best way to protect, and you have to do this, you have to do this, and to keep foreign terrorists from attacking our country is to keep these foreign terrorists from entering our country in the first place.  And we will stop radical Islamic terrorism. We will stop it. Not going to let it happen, not here. Not going to let it happen. Finally, we want a very big tax cut, but cannot do that until we keep our promise to repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare. And we're going to be working very closely with our leader, Mitch McConnell, to get that job done. Paul Ryan, everybody, they're going to be working very hard. And Congressman Andy Barr and Jamie Comer, I have to thank them for their help and their support as we move toward the crucial House vote on Thursday, the seventh anniversary of Obamacare's very painful passage. This is our long- awaited chance to finally get rid of Obamacare.  It's a long-awaited chance. We're going to do it. We're going to do it. What's the alternative? The alternative is what you have. What you have is nothing, the worst, it's the big lie. And remember this, so true, I happen to like a lot Senator Rand Paul, I do.  I do, I like him. He's good. He's a good guy. And I look forward to working with him so we can get this bill passed in some form so that we can pass massive tax reform which we can't do until this happens. So we've got to get this done before we can do the other. In other words, we have to know what this is before we can do the big tax cuts. We've got to get it done for a lot of reasons, but that's one of them.  And it's important to realize how we got to Obamacare in the first place. Back in 2009 and 2010, House and Senate Democrats forced through a 2,700-page health care bill that no one read and no one understood. By the way, today it's thousands of pages more, it's not even understandable. They ignored the public, they ignored the voters and they jammed a massive, failed health care takeover right through Congress.  And this is what we have. It's time for Democrat leaders in Washington to take responsibility for the disaster they and they alone created.  Remember when President Obama said if you like your plan you can keep your plan, if you like your doctor you can keep your doctor?  Nobody brings that stuff up, do they? Do they ever bring it up? Matt, I don't think so, right? They don't bring it up. Notice how they forget all those things? Or when the architect of Obamacare said the law was passed because of the stupidity of the American voter. Or Bill Clinton on the campaign trail -- oh, he must have had a tough night when he went home that night...  ... called Obamacare the craziest thing in the world where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. Bill Clinton said that, the craziest thing in the world. Or the Democratic governor of Minnesota who said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. It's been one broken promise after another. People have been kicked off their plans and their premiums have increased by double and triple digits. Arizona up 116 percent. By the way, insurance companies in a great state known as Kentucky -- have you ever heard of it -- are in tremendous trouble, will be fleeing and we're going to save it all. We're going to save it all. Tremendous trouble, it's a disaster.  In fact, to counter my speech two weeks in Congress -- I don't know, did anybody see that speech -- they used the former governor of Kentucky.  And the plan doesn't work in Kentucky. But Matt will save us. Many of our best and brightest are leaving the medical profession entirely because of Obamacare. Obamacare has been a complete and total catastrophe and it's getting worse and worse by the day. And yet, you watch the fake media, the fake news and they try and build it up. It's a disaster, fellas. It's a disaster.  What would be great if they told the truth about Obamacare. It would be so wonderful for the people of this country because it would just sail right through. Our plan would sail right through. One-third of the counties in the United States now have only one Obamacare insurer left, some have none. And in your state it's worse. In a recent interview, your governor, Matt Bevin, who's right here so I better be careful, said that Obamacare was a disaster in Kentucky. Is that right? I'm quoting that so accurately. And it is. It's been an absolute disaster. Half of our counties only have a single provider right now. It's a financial disaster waiting to happen right here in your own state. Thursday is our chance to end Obamacare and the Obamacare catastrophe and begin delivering the reforms our people deserve.  Big thing. Then we get to tax cuts. Big thing. And remember, we're going to negotiate and it's going to go to the Senate and back and forth. The end result is going to be wonderful and it's going to work great. Once this is done, we are also going to work on bringing down the cost of medicine by having a fair and competitive bidding process.  Some people think that's just as important as health care. The cost of medicine in this country is outrageous, many times higher than in some countries in Europe and elsewhere. Why? Same pill, same manufacturer, identical, and it's many times higher in the United States. You know why? Campaign contributions, who knows? But somebody is getting very rich. We're going to bring it down and we're going to have a great, competitive bidding process. Medicine prices will be coming way down, way, way, way down. And that's going to happen fast.  And we're just adding that to the bill. I said we've got to add that to the bill. We were going to do a bill later, we're trying to add it to this bill. And if we can't, we're going to have it right after. We have some crazy arcane laws, folks, just in case you haven't heard. I am confident that if we empower the American people we will accomplish incredible things for our country, not just on health care, but all across our government. And by the way, that Second Amendment is very, very safe right now.  I promised. I said we're going to save the Second Amendment. I promise you we are going to save the Second Amendment. It's very, very safe. It would not be in good shape if a certain other person won this election, I can tell you. You'd not be happy.  And if they came to make a speech, 250 people would have shown up. A new spirit of optimism is sweeping across our land and a new national pride is swelling our hearts and stirring our souls. So true.  Just imagine what we could accomplish if we stand together as a united American people.  Our economy will be unleashed and millions will be lifted from welfare to work. Got to work on work. They're going to love it. They're going to love it. From welfare to work. Our children will grow up in safe communities and they will be educated in schools that teach them to love our country and its values.  Our inner cities will find a rebirth of hope, safety and opportunity.  And, you know, your San Francisco quarterback, I'm sure nobody ever heard of him.  I'm just reporting the news. There was an article today -- I love to report the news and then they said I made a mistake, right? I said, no, the people reporting the news made a mistake if it's wrong. But there was an article today, it was reported that NFL owners don't want to pick him up because they don't want to get a nasty tweet from Donald Trump. Do you believe that?  I just saw that. I just saw that. I said, if I remember that one, I'm going to report it to the people of Kentucky because they like it when people actually stand for the American flag. Right?  Our struggling industries are going to be revitalized and our dying factories will come roaring back to life. It's already happening.  And in our dealing with other nations, we will find a new era of security, cooperation and peace. And we won't be played for the fool and we won't be played for the suckers any longer.  This is the future that awaits us if we embrace our destiny as Americans, which we did. This was one of the greatest things, one of the biggest events ever to happen in our country. And we're going to make it even better than anybody ever thought possible. That's happening already.  We are one people and we share one faith. Whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood.  We all salute the same great American flag.  And we are all made by the same almighty God.  As long as we remember these truths, we will not fail. Nobody, nobody can beat us, nobody!  We are Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to you. This is your moment, this is your time and this, the United States of America, is your country again.  So with hope in our souls and patriotism in our hearts, let us now recite these words. Are you ready? Together, we will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again! Thank you. Thank you, Kentucky. God bless you. Thank you. "
"Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.  So we're just going to let the other folks come in, fill it up. This is some crowd. You have to see what's outside, you wouldn't even believe it.  Unbelievable. So I'm thrilled to be here in Nashville, Tennessee, the home --  -- of country music, Southern hospitality, and the great President Andrew Jackson.  I just came from a tour of Andrew Jackson's home to mark the 250th anniversary of his birth. Jackson's life was devoted to one very crucial principle -- he understood that real leadership means putting America first.  Before becoming President, Andrew Jackson served your state from the House of Representatives and in the United States Senate, and he also served as commander of the Tennessee militia. Tough cookie. Tough cookie.  So let's begin tonight by thanking all of the incredible men and women of the United States military and all of our wonderful veterans. The veterans.  USA! USA! USA! Amazing. There's no place I'd rather be than with all of you here tonight, with the wonderful, hardworking citizens of our country.  I would much rather spend time with you than any of the pundits, consultants, or special interests, certainly -- or reporters from Washington, D.C.  It's patriotic Americans like you who make this country run, and run well. You pay your taxes, follow our laws, support your communities, raise your children, love your country, and send your bravest to fight in our wars.  All you want is a government that shows you the same loyalty in return. It's time that Washington heard your voice -- and believe me, on November 8th, they heard your voice.  The forgotten men and women of our country will never be forgotten again, believe me.  I want to thank so many of your state leaders -- State Party Chairman Scott Golden; Congressman Scott DesJarlais; Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn; Congresswoman Diane Black; Congressman Jimmy Duncan -- right from the beginning.  Governor Bill Haslam.  A great friend of mine, Senator Bob Corker.  An incredible guy, respected by all -- Senator Lamar Alexander.  And so many more. Thank you all for being here. We're going to be working closely together to deliver for you, the citizens of Tennessee, like you've never been delivered for before. Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you. We're going to reduce your taxes -- big league. Big.  Big. I want to start that process so quickly. Got to get the healthcare done. We got to start the tax reductions.  We are going to enforce our trade rules and bring back our jobs, which are scattered all over the world. They're coming back to our country.  We're going to support the amazing -- absolutely amazing men and women of law enforcement.  Protect your freedoms, and defend the Second Amendment.  And we are going to restore respect for our country and for its great and very beautiful flag.  It's been a little over 50 days since my inauguration, and we've been putting our America First agenda very much into action. You see what's happening. We're keeping our promises. In fact, they have signs -- ""He's Kept His Promise."" They're all over the place. I have.  We have done far more -- I think maybe more than anybody's done in this office in 50 days, that I could tell you.  And we have just gotten started. Wait until you see what's coming, folks. We've appointed a Supreme Court justice to replace the late, great Antonin Scalia. His name is Judge Neil Gorsuch.  He will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. We are proposing a budget that will shrink the bloated federal bureaucracy -- and I mean bloated -- while protecting our national security. You see what we're doing with our military -- bigger, better, stronger than ever before. You see what's happening.  And you're already seeing the results. Our budget calls for one of the single largest increases in defense spending history in this country.  We believe -- especially the people in Tennessee, I know you people so well --  -- in peace through strength. That's what we're going to have. And we are taking steps to make sure that our allies pay their fair share. They have to pay.  We've begun a dramatic effort to eliminate job-killing federal regulations like nobody has ever seen before -- slash, slash. We're going to protect the environment, we're going to protect people's safeties, but, let me tell you, the regulation business has become a terrible business, and we're going to bring it down to where it should be.  USA! USA! USA! Okay, let's go. One person -- and they'll be the story tomorrow -- did you hear there was a protestor?  We're going to put our miners back to work. We're going to put our auto industry back to work. Already because of this new business climate, we are creating jobs that are starting to pour back into our country like we haven't seen in many, many decades.  In the first two job reports since I took the oath of office, we've already added nearly half a million new jobs, and believe me, it's just beginning.  I've already authorized the construction of the long-stalled and delayed Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines.  A lot of jobs. I've also directed that new pipelines must be constructed with American steel.  They want to build them here, they use our steel. We believe in two simple rules: Buy American and Hire American.  On trade, I've kept my promise to the American people, and withdrawn from the Trans-Pacific Partnership disaster.  Tennessee has lost one third of its manufacturing jobs since the institution of NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever in history. Our nation has lost over 60,000 factories since China joined the World Trade Organization -- 60,000. Think of that. More than that. We're not going to let it happen anymore. From now on, we are going to defend the American worker and our great American companies.  And if America does what it says, and if your President does what I've been telling you, there is nobody anywhere in the world that can even come close to us, folks. Not even close.  If a company wants to leave America, fire their workers, and then ship their new products back into our country, there will be consequences.  That's what we have borders for. And by the way, aren't our borders getting extremely strong?  Very strong. USA! USA! USA! Don't even think about it. We will build the wall. Don't even think about it.  In fact, as you probably read, we went out to bid. We had hundreds of bidders. Everybody wants to build our wall.  Usually, that means we're going to get a good price. We're going to get a good price, believe me.  We're going to build the wall. Some of the fake news said, I don't think Donald Trump wants to build the wall. Can you imagine if I said we're not going to build a wall? Fake news. Fake, fake news. Fake news, folks. A lot of fake. No, the wall is way ahead of schedule in terms of where we are. It's under design, and you're going to see some very good things happening. But the border by itself right now is doing very well. It's becoming very strong. General Kelly has done a great job -- General Kelly. My administration is also following through on our promise to secure, protect, and defend that border within our United States. Our southern border will be protected always. It will have the wall. Drugs will stop pouring in and poisoning our youth, and that will happen very, very soon. You're already seeing what's going on. The drugs are pouring into our country, folks. They are poisoning our youth and plenty of others, and we're going to stop it. We're not going to playing games. Not going to be playing games.  Following my executive action -- and don't forget, we've only been here for like -- what? -- 50 days -- we've already experienced an unprecedented 40-percent reduction in illegal immigration on our Southern border; 61 percent since Inauguration Day -- 61 percent. Think about it. And now people are saying, we're not going to go there anymore because we can't get in. So it's going to get better and better. We got to stop those drugs, though. We got to stop those drugs. During the campaign, as I traveled all across this country, I met with many American families whose loved ones were viciously and violently killed by illegal immigrants because our government refused to enforce our already existing laws. These American victims were ignored by the media. They were ignored by Washington. But they were not ignored by me, and they're not ignored by you, and they never will be ignored certainly any longer. Not going to happen.  As we speak, we are finding the drug dealers, the robbers, thieves, gang members, killers and criminals preying on our citizens. One by one -- you're reading about it, right? They're being thrown out of our country. They're being thrown into prisons. And we will not let them back in.  We're also working, night and day, to keep our nation safe from terrorism.  We have seen the devastation from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino -- hundreds upon hundreds of people from outside our country have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses in the United States courts. Right now we have investigations going on all over -- hundreds of refugees are under federal investigation for terrorism and related reasons. We have entire regions of the world destabilized by terrorism and ISIS. For this reason, I issued an executive order to temporarily suspend immigration from places where it cannot safely occur.  But let me give you the bad news. We don't like bad news, right? I don't want to hear -- and I'll turn it into good. But let me give you the bad, the sad news. Moments ago, I learned that a district judge in Hawaii -- part of the much overturned 9th Circuit Court -- and I have to be nice; otherwise I'll get criticized for speaking poorly about our courts. I'll be criticized by these people, among the most dishonest people in the world -- I will be criticized -- I'll be criticized by them for speaking harshly about our courts. I would never want to do that. A judge has just blocked our executive order on travel and refugees coming into our country from certain countries. Booo -- The order he blocked was a watered-version of the first order that was also blocked by another judge and should have never been blocked to start with. This new order was tailored to the dictates of the 9th Circuit's -- in my opinion -- flawed ruling. This is, the opinion of many, an unprecedented judicial overreach. The law and the Constitution give the President the power to suspend immigration when he deems -- or she -- or she. Fortunately, it will not be Hillary she.  When he or she deems it to be in the national interest of our country. So we have a lot of lawyers here. We also have a lot of smart people here. Let me read to you directly from the federal statute, 212F, of the immigration -- and you know what I'm talking about, right? Can I read this to you? Listen to this. Now, we're all smart people. We're all good students -- some are bad students, but even if you're a bad student this is a real easy one, let me tell you. Ready? So here's the statute -- which they don't even want to quote when they overrule it. And it was put here for the security of our country. And this goes beyond me, because there will be other Presidents, and we need this. And sometimes we need it very badly for security -- security of our country. It says -- now, listen how easy this is. ""Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or any class of aliens would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may, by proclamation, and for such period as he -- see, it wasn't politically correct, because it should say he or she. You know, today they'd say that. Actually, that's the only mistake they made. ""as he shall deem necessary, suspending entry of all aliens, or any class of aliens, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or pose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deems to be appropriate."" In other words, if he thinks there's danger out there, he or she -- whoever is President -- can say, I'm sorry, folks, not now, please. We've got enough problems.  We're talking about the safety of our nation, the safety and security of our people.  Now, I know you people aren't skeptical people because nobody would be that way in Tennessee. Right? Nobody -- not Tennessee. You don't think this was done by a judge for political reasons, do you? No. Booo -- This ruling makes us look weak -- which, by the way, we no longer are, believe me.  Just look at our borders. We're going to fight this terrible ruling. We're going to take our case as far as it needs to go, including all the way up to the Supreme Court.  We're going to win. We're going to keep our citizens safe. And regardless, we're going to keep our citizens safe, believe me.  Even liberal Democratic lawyer, Alan Dershowitz ---- good lawyer -- just said that we would win this case before the Supreme Court of the United States.  Remember this, I wasn't thrilled, but the lawyers all said, let's tailor it. This is a watered--down version of the first one. This is a watered--down version. And let me tell you something, I think we ought to go back to the first one and go all the way, which is what I wanted to do in the first one.  The danger is clear, the law is clear, the need for my executive order is clear. I was elected to change our broken and dangerous system and thinking in government that has weakened and endangered our country and left our people defenseless.  And I will not stop fighting for the safety of you and your families, believe me. Not today, not ever. We're going to win it. We're going to win it.  We're going to apply common sense. We're going to apply intelligence. And we're never quitting, and we're never going away, and we're never, ever giving up. The best way to keep foreign terrorists -- or, as some people would say in certain instances, radical Islamic terrorists -- from attacking our country is to stop them from entering our country in the first place.  We'll take it, but these are the problems we have. People are screaming, break up the 9th Circuit. And I'll tell you what, that 9th Circuit -- you have to see. Take a look at how many times they have been overturned with their terrible decisions. Take a look. And this is what we have to live with. Finally, I want to get to taxes. I want to cut the hell out of taxes, but --  -- but before I can do that -- I would have loved to have put it first, I'll be honest -- there is one more very important thing that we have to do, and we are going to repeal and replace horrible, disastrous Obamacare.  If we leave Obamacare in place, millions and millions of people will be forced off their plans, and your senators just told me that in your state you're down to practically no insurers. You're going to have nobody. You're going to have nobody. And this is true all over. The insurers are fleeing. The insurers are fleeing. It's a catastrophic situation, and there's nothing to compare anything to because Obamacare won't be around for a year or two. It's gone. So it's not like, oh, gee, they have this. Obamacare is gone. Premiums will continue to soar double digits and even triple digits in many cases. It will drain our budget and destroy our jobs. Remember all of the broken promises? You can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan. Remember the wise guy -- remember the wise guy that essentially said the American people -- the so--called architect -- the American people are stupid because they approved it? We're going to show them. Those in Congress who made these promises have no credibility whatsoever on healthcare.  And remember this -- remember this: If we took, because there's such divisiveness -- and I'm not just talking now, with me. There was with Obama. There was with Bush. The level of hatred and divisiveness with the politicians. I remember years ago, I'd go to Washington -- I* was always very politically active -- and Republicans and Democrats, they'd fight during the day and they go to dinner at night. Today, there's a level that nobody has seen before. Just remember this: If we submitted the Democrats' plan, drawn everything perfect for the Democrats, we wouldn't get one vote from the Democrats. That's the way it is. That's how much divisiveness and other things there are. So it's a problem. But we're going to get it by. So, I've met with so many victims of Obamacare ---- the people who have been so horribly hurt by this horrible legislation. At the very core of Obamacare was a fatal flaw -- the government forcing people to buy a government--approved product. There are very few people -- very few people. Booo -- By the way -- watch what happens. Now you just booed Obamacare. They will say, Trump got booed when he mentioned -- they're bad people, folks. They're bad people. Booo -- Tonight, I'll go home, I'll turn on, I'll say -- listen, I'll turn on that television. My wife will say, darling, it's too bad you got booed. I said, I didn't get booed. This was a -- I said, no, no, they were booing Obamacare. Watch, a couple of them will actually do it, almost guaranteed. But when we call them out, it makes it harder for them to do it. So we'll see. It's the fake, fake media. We want Americans to be able to purchase the health insurance plans they want, not the plans forced on them by our government.  The House has put forward a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare based on the principles I outlined in my joint address, but let me tell you, we're going to arbitrate, we're going to all get together and we're going to get something done. Remember this -- if we didn't do it the way we're doing it, we need 60 votes so we have to get the Democrats involved. They won't vote, no matter what we do, they're not going to vote. So we're doing it a different way, a complex way. It's fine. The end result is when you have phase one, phase two, phase three -- it's going to be great. It's going to be great. And then, we get on to tax reductions, which I like.  The House legislation does so much for you. It gives the states Medicaid flexibility. And some of the states will take over their healthcare. Governor Rick Scott in Florida said, just send me the money -- they run a great plan. We have states that are doing great. It gives great flexibility. Thank you, folks. Thank you.  It repeals hundreds of billions of dollars in Obamacare taxes. It provides tax credits to purchase the care that is rightfully theirs. The bill that I will ultimately sign -- and that will be a bill where everybody is going to get into the room and we're going to get it done -- we'll get rid of Obamacare and make healthcare better for you and for your family.  And once this is done, and a step further, we are going to try and put it in phase three -- I'm going to work on bringing down the cost of medicine by having a fair and competitive bidding process.  We welcome this healthcare debate and its negotiation, and we're going to carry it out, and have been carrying it out, in the full light of day -- unlike the way Obamacare was passed. Remember, folks, if we don't do anything, Obamacare is gone. It's not like, oh, gee, it's going to be wonderful in three years. It's gone. It's gone. It's gone. Not working. It's gone. What we cannot do is to be intimidated by the dishonest attacks from Democratic leaders in Congress who broke the system in the first place and who don't believe you should be able to make your own healthcare decisions.  I am very confident that if we empower the American people we will accomplish incredible things for our country -- not just on healthcare, but all across our government. We will unlock new frontiers in science and in medicine. We will give our children the right to attend the school of their choice, one where they will be taught to love this country and its values.  We will create millions and millions of new jobs by lowering taxes on our businesses, and very importantly for our workers, we're going to lower taxes.  And we will fight for the right of every American child to grow up in a safe neighborhood, attend a great school, and to graduate with access to a high-paying job that they love doing.  No matter our background, no matter our income, no matter our geography, we all share the same home. We all salute the same flag. And we all are made by the same God.  USA! USA! USA! It's time to embrace our glorious American destiny. Anything we can dream for our country we can achieve for our country. All we have to do is tap into that American pride that is swelling our hearts and stirring our souls. And we found that out very recently in our last election -- a lot of pride.  We are all Americans, and the future truly belongs to us. The future belongs to all of you. This is your moment. This is your time. This is the hour when history is made. All we have to do is put our own citizens first, and together we will make America strong again.  We will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.  Thank you. God bless you. Thank you.  God bless you, everybody. "
"Thank you. Let us pray. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed is your name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespasses against us. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever and ever. Amen. Good afternoon. It is my honor and great pleasure to stand here before you as the First Lady of the United States. The mid the America we envision is one that works for all Americans, and where all Americans can work and succeed. A nation committed to a greater civility and unity between people from all sides of the political divide. I will always stay true to myself and be truthful to you, no matter what the opposition is saying about me. I will act in the best interest of all of you. I am committed to creating and supporting initiatives geared to my heart, which will have impacts on women and children all around the world. My husband is creating a country of great safety and prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm proud to introduce the President of the United States, Donald Trump. Thank you, everybody, thank you. I didn't know that Melania was going to be saying the Lord's Prayer, but I thought that was very beautiful, thank you, thank you. It's so great to be here in Florida. My second home with you. This is a state I truly love. This is a state where we all had great victory together. Thank you. It's now been a month since my inauguration. And I am here to tell you about our incredible progress in making America great again. I'm also here to tell you about our plans for the future and they're big and they're bold and It's what our country is all about, believe me. I'm here because I want to be among my friends and among the people. This was a great movement, a movement like has never been seen before in our country our probably anywhere else. This was a truly great movement And I want to be here with you, and I will always be with you. I promise you that. I want to be in a room filled with hard working American patriots who love their country, who salute their flag and who pray for a better future. I also want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news. The dishonest media which has published one false story after another with no sources, even though they pretend they have them, they make them up in many cases, they just don't want to report the truth and they've been calling us wrong now for two years. They don't get it. By they're starting to get it. I can tell you that. They've become a big part of the problem. They are part of the corrupt system. Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, and Abraham Lincoln and many of our greatest presidents fought with the media and called them out often times on their lies. When the media lies to people, I will never, ever let them get away with it. I will do whatever I can that. They don't get away with it. They have their own agenda and their agenda is not your agenda. In fact, Thomas Jefferson said, nothing can be believed which is seen in a newspaper. Truth itself, he said, becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle, that was June 14, my birthday, 1807. But despite all their lies, misrepresentations, and false stories, they could not defeat us in the primaries, and they could not defeat us in the general election, and we will continue to expose them for what they are, and most importantly, we will continue to win, win, win. We are not going to let the fake news tell us what to do, how to live, or what to believe. We are free and independent people and we will make our own choices. We are here today to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. I hear your demands, I hear your voices and I promise you I will deliver. I promise that. And by the way, you've seen what we've accomplished in a very short period of time. The White House is running so smoothly. So smoothly. And believe me, I and we inherited one big mess. That I can tell you, but I know that you want safe neighborhoods where the streets belong to families and communities, not gang members and drug dealers who are right now as I speak being thrown out of the country and they will not be let back in. We will have strong borders again, and I mean that. You've seen it in television. You've seen it on television. General Kelly, now Secretary Kelly, he's really doing the job. You're seeing it. The gang members, bad, bad people. I said day one, and they're going out. Or they're being put in prison, but for the most part, get them the hell out of here. Bring them back to where they came from. The fact is, you want great schools for your children. You want good high paying jobs for yourselves and for your loved ones and for the future of your families. You want a health care system and by the way, we are going to be submitting in a couple of weeks a great healthcare plan that's going to take the place of the disaster known as Obamacare. It will be repealed and replaced. For those people. The people put into rooms where Republicans are talking about the plan, and it wouldn't matter what they say, for those people just so you understand, our plan will be much better health care at a much lower coast. Okay? Nothing to complain about. Obamacare remember, it is a disaster. You want low cost American energy also, which means lifting the restrictions on oil, on shell, on natural gas and on clean, very clean coal. We're going to put the miners back to work. The miners go back to work. You want us to enforce immigration laws and defend our borders. You want fair trade deals and a level playing field. We don't have a level playing field. Because you understand that when American workers win, America as a country wins and wins big. And every country over the last long period of time has been taking advantage of the  of our politicians. It's not going to happen any longer. You want lower taxes. Less regulation. Millions of new jobs and more product stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, Made in the USA. You want to make it easy for companies to do business in America. And harder for companies to leave. We don't want companies saying, everybody is fired. We're moving to another country. We're going to make the product. Sell it across the border and isn't that wonderful. Not going happen anymore. We're going to have strong borders and when they want to sell that product back across our border, they're going to pay a 35% tax and you know what, they're never going to leave. They will never, ever leave. And you've seen that because I've already displayed it for the last two months even before I got into office. They're not leaving. And if they do, they're going to pay a big price for terminating the relationship with our workers. You want a government that serves the people not the donors and special interest. You want a government that keeps its promises. A great spirit of optimism is sweeping and you see it. it's sweeping all across the country. Look at what's happening to the stock market. Look at what's happening to the every poll when it comes to optimism in our country. It's sweeping across the country. And, in fact, every day for the last long period of days this stock market means, companies, have been hitting new highs. They're going to start highs. It's going to be a new day in America. You're going to be proud again. Jobs are already starting to pour back in. They're coming back in like you haven't seen in a long time. Ford, General Motors, Fiat, Chrysler are bringing in and bringing back thousands of jobs investing billions of dollars because of the new business climate that we are creating in our country. In Arizona, Intel, great company, just announced it will open a new plant that will create at least 10,000 brand new beautiful American jobs. I followed through on my promise to withdraw from the job killing disaster known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership. TPP, we have just terminated our relationship to it. We're going to have tremendous trade deals all over the world, but they're going to be bilateral or as we would say, one-on-one. None of these deals where we get caught in quicksand. Get mired in and we can't do anything about it. By the way, NAFTA and so many others. My administration has begun plans to crack down on foreign cheating and currency manipulation which is killing our companies and really, really hurting our workers. We're going to end it. Within a few days of taking the oath of office, I've taken steps to begin the construction of the Keystone and the Dakota Access Pipelines. Anywhere from 30-40,000 jobs. And very importantly, as I was about to sign it, I said who makes the pipe? Who makes the pipe? Something this audience understands very well, right? Simple question. The lawyers put this very complex document in front. I said, who makes the pipe? They said, sir, it can be made anywhere. I said not anymore. I put a little clause in the bottom. The pipe has to be made in the United States of America if we're going to have pine line. We believe in two simple rules. I can tell you everybody in this massive, this is a massive hanger. For the big planes. And by the way, do you think that one media group back there, one network will show this crowd. Not one. Not one. They won't show the crowd. You know, coming in on the plane, and that plane represented so much. And just so you know, they were close to signing a $4.2 billion deal to have a new Air Force One. Can you believe this? I said no way. I said I refuse to fly in a $4.2 billion airplane. I refuse. So I got Boeing and it is actually  a lot of people don't know. The Air Force One project is actually two planes. Why they need to planes, we'll have to talk about that, but they have two planes, but we've got that price down over a billion dollars and I probably have it spoken to be honest with you for honest probably an more than an hour on the project. I got the generals in who are fantastic. I got Boeing in. I told Boeing it's not good enough. We're still not going to do it. The price is still too high. On the fighter jet. We were hundreds of billions of dollars over budget. Seven years late, great plane. A great plane. So think of it. They're seven years late. Hundreds of billions of dollars over-budget. Other than that by the way the project is going extremely well. And I got the folks in from Lockheed Martin who are terrific people and a terrific product by the way. I also got Boeing in. I said do me a favor, give me a competing offer. And now they're competing and fighting and we've gotten hundreds of millions of dollars off the price of a plane that was going to be ordered, in other words, if my opponent got in, there would have been no calls made to them. They would have signed contracts. So they're going to make plenty of money, but it's going to be a lot less than they would have made without Trump. That I can tell you. You might as well know about it. Nobody talks. By the way, that's for fighter jets. One of the biggest orders in the history of aviation. The order for the F-35. You've been reading about it because it was a disaster. Under the last administration. A disaster. And now we have it running beautifully. In fact, when the Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Abe, was great. Great guy. When he came over, he said, thank you. I said for what. You saved us many, many millions of dollars on the F-35 fighter jet. Because when I negotiated, I took our allies into the same negotiation. So the first thing he did was thanked med for saving them money and that's good. Okay. That's good. I know the media will never thank me so at least Japan is thanking me, right? But we believe in two simple rules. Buy American and hire American. We believe it. We've just issued a new order which requires that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. And by the way, a new director was just approved. Can you imagine the length of time it's taken to Democrats and I actually think it's an embarrassment to them, but this is getting in to be record setting time. Incredible people. Scott Pruitt was just approved, just now approved for the Environmental Protection Agency. He'll do so good. He won't have projects going ten and 12 years and getting rejected. They may be rejected, but they'll be rejected quickly. For the most part, they're going to be accepted. They're going to be environmentally friendly and he is going to be a great Secretary. He will be amazing. We're very happy. That took place yesterday. That's going to be a big difference because they were clogging up the veins of our country with the environmental impact statements and all of the rules and regulations. It was impossible to navigate for companies. And what did it really mean? Forget about the companies? What did it mean. It meant no jobs. It meant companies leaving our country and going to foreign countries to do things they would rather do here. So we're going to have a whole big situation. We are going to unfreeze all of those companies. They are going to be  they're going have freedom. Be able to build what they want to build. It will be environmentally friendly and we're going to start producing jobs like you've never seen before. That's going to happen. That was a big thing. We're standing up for the incredible men and women always of law enforcement. We're standing up. And I can tell you, the military and law enforcement they stood up. I don't say for me. I'm the messenger folks. I'm the messenger. They stood up for us in this last election. We got numbers that nobody believed were possible from law enforcement and from military. Basically people they wear uniforms like us. Isn't that nice. I saw this man on TV just now, you. I just saw him on television. He said I love Trump. Let Trump do what he has to do. That's my guy right there. Come here. Come here. No, I just. I'm coming in. That's okay. Let him up. I'm not worried about him. I'm only worried he's going to give me a kiss. I'm not worried about anything else. This guy is so great. He was one of many people. They're interviewing people in the line. And I have to say, there was a tiny group of protesters out there and they were given as much publicity as this massive room packed with people, but they interviewed this man. Come on up here. Come on up. Guy was great. Hop over the fence. Come on. He can do it. He's in good shape. Look at him. Look at this guy. Come on. This guy is great. Don't worry about him. No, no. Come here. They're going to  come on up. Come here. This guy. So he's been all over television saying the best things and I see him standing and didn't you get here at like 4 in the morning. I did sir. Say a couple of words to this crowd. Mr. President, thank you sir. We the people, our movement is the reason why our President of the United States is standing here in front of us today. When President Trump during the election promised all these things that he was going to do for us, I knew he was going to do this for us. Thank you so much, sir. A star is born. A star is born. That's fine. I wouldn't say that Secret Service was thrilled with that, but we know our people, right? We know our people. Great guy. And so many others. I see some others. Being interviewed. I see them over here. They started. They came at 4 in the morning. The media will give them no credit. The media, as I told you, won't show this crowd. All the way outside of this  this is a big a hanger as you get. All the way outside. Way back to the fences. Amazing. I want to thank you, but I want to thank everybody. I've directed the Department of Justice to take a firm, firm stance to protect our cops, sheriffs, and police from crimes of violence against them. We will work with our police not against our police, our police do a great job and they've never been troubled like they're troubled now. It's very unfair what's happening. So we want to cherish our law enforcement. We will always protect those who protect us. We've directed the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America, including our inner cities. We're going to make our inner cities safe again. Look at what's going on. Look at what's happening in Chicago. Hundreds of shootings, hundreds of deaths. I'll tell you what's happening in Chicago and many other places. Safety is a civil right. And we will fight to make America totally safe again. I've ordered the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to coordinate on a plan to destroy transnational criminal cartels which are all over the United States and we are going to stop the drugs from pours into your country, into your community, into your cities and poisoning our youth. We're stopping it. We're stopping it. We've taken historic action to secure the southern border and I've ordered the construction of a great border wall, which will start very shortly. And I've taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of our country. So you probably read where we want to enforce the laws as existing. And so we signed an order a couple of weeks ago, and it was taken over by a court originally by a judge and then a  yes, it's very sad. The reason is for protection and safety. So the statute is so plain and so clear. I said last week, I was speaking to a great group of sheriffs, the sheriffs group in Washington, and I said if you have a college education, you can understand its. If you have a high school education, you can understand it. If you were a bad student in high school, you can understand it. I was told. I'll check, but I found it hard to believe, over 30-page decision by the appellate court. Three judges. And you could tell by the way they were reacting because it was broadcast on television. Everything we do gets a lot of people watching. So you could tell by the way that phone call went, wasn't looking good. When they wrote their decision, as I understand it. Maybe I'm wrong. They didn't write the statute they were making the decision about because every word of the statute is a total kill for the other side. So I thought I would read it. And here's what it says. This is what it says: Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or any class of aliens into the United States  okay. So essentially. Whenever somebody comes into the United States. Right. If it would be detrimental to the interest of the United States  okay. Now you know the country's we're talking about and these were countries picked by Obama. They weren't even picked. They were picked by Obama. He may, so the President may, by proclamation and for such period as he shall deem necessary  now, because it should have said he or she, right. They were not politically correct when they drew this. In fact, that's the only thing that was actually wrong with it. He or she. I don't think the women care too much about that. Right? I don't think so. By the way, we did very well with women. You know, my wife said when some of these phony polls were put out, the CNN poll was so far off, the phony polls. When some of these, she said, what's wrong with you and women. We did very nicely with women. We did nicely with a lot of groups they didn't think we were going to do so nicely with. I guess we had to. That's why we're all here tonight. Right? So and it goes, for such as he shall seem necessary suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants or impose on aliens any restriction he may deem to be appropriate. So basically it says the president has the right to keep people out if he feels it's not in the best interest of our country. Right? Unbelievable. Unbelievable. And I listened to these judges talk and talk and talk. So unfair. So we'll be doing something over the next couple of days. We don't give up. We never give up. We had a court that I disagree with. I disagree with big league  and by the way, whether you read it or whether you watch it on television when other lawyers come on, many of them can't even understand. They're saying how do you come up with that decision. It cannot be more simple. So they're ruling on what I just read you and they don't even quote it in their ruling because you can't because it's too obvious. So we will do something next week. I think you'll be impressed. Let's see what happens. Here's the bottom line. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening in Germany, you look at what's happening last night in Sweden. Sweden, who would believe this. Sweden. They took in large numbers. They're having problems like they never thought possible. You look at what's happening in Brussels. You look at what's happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris. We've allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country and there was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So we're going to keep our country safe. And we all have heart, by the way. And what I want to do is build safe zones in Syria and other places so they can stay there and live safely until their cities and their country, that mess that I was left by Obama and everybody else  folks, we were left a mess like you wouldn't believe, but we're going to build safe zones. We're going to have those safe zones. We do owe $20 trillion. Okay. So we're going to have the gulf states pay for those safe zones. They've got nothing, but money. We're going to do it that way instead of taking massive numbers. Tens the of thousands of people into our country and we don't know anything about those people. We want people to come into our country, but we want people that love us. We want people that can cherish us and the traditions of our country. We want people that are going to be great for our country. We don't want people with bad, bad ideas. We don't want that. I've also directed the defense community headed by General, now  you know, he said it, he said it  and now Secretary Mad Dog Mattis, to develop a plan to totally destroy ISIS. I have ordered the department of defense to begin plans for the great rebuilding of the united states military. We will pursue peace through strength. Our military is badly depleted. You have planes in the military. Where the father flew them and now the son is flying them. Their so old. We make the best equipment anywhere in the world. We're going to start using our best and most modern equipment. And we're going to make sure our veterans have the care they need when they come home. We love our veterans. We're going to do a great job for our veterans. Our veterans have been very, very sadly treated. These are our great great people. We owe them so much. Our veterans are going to be taken care of for once and for all. Our system and our country has led down our veterans. We are not going to let that go on any further. You wait and you see what we're going to be doing for our great veterans. Thank you veterans. Who is here? Who is a veteran? We're going to take care of our veterans. We're going to downsize the bloated, bloated bureaucracy which make the government lien and accountable. We're going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. I've already imposed a five year lobbying ban on the executive branch officials and lifetime ban on lobbying for a foreign government. And there's another major promise I have kept to the American people. I've nominated a fantastic justice to replace the late great Justice Scalia. His name is Judge Neil Gorsuch. He comes from my list of 20 very, very highly qualified judges. He's incredible and has an incredible resume. He's respected by all. His education is as good as it can get. His writings are truly amazing. He will be a true, true defender of our constitution. So let's tell the Senate Democrats to support his nomination for the good of the country because what's happening with the Democrats  no wonder they're doing so badly. No wonder they're doing so badly. You take a look, race after race, I just want the tell you, in case you didn't read it, of course you're reading the fake news, but the Democrats were supposed to win the presidency. That didn't happen. They were supposed to take over the Senate. That didn't happen. And they were supposed to take over potentially even the House. It was going to be four weeks out the greatest defeat in the modern history of American politics. And it was, but it was for the Democrats, not for the Republicans. So we have to tell the Democrats, because they're doing the wrong thing for the American people, to stop their tactics of delay and obstruction and destruction. They got to get on with it. My administration is also pushing ahead strongly with very historic tax reform. We are working to lower tax rates in the middle class to reduce tax rates big league on businesses and to make our tax code more fair and very simple for all Americans so it's understandable by everyone. Senate Democrats should work with us to lower taxes and bring back our jobs, but the Democrats want to increase your taxes very, very substantially. We're not going let that happen. Also time for the Senate Democrats to take responsibility for Obamacare and to work with us to replace it with new reforms that reverse this nation-wide healthcare tragedy. It's a tragedy. You look at some states, Arizona, up 116%. Your deductibles have gone so high you can never use it. Obamacare doesn't work. It's become totally unaffordable. Remember they said the healthcare, it's unaffordable. It doesn't work. And I said to the Republicans, I said you want to do something great politically: don't do anything. Sit back for two years, let it explode. The Democrats will come and beg for us to do something, but we can't do that to the American people. We have to fix it. And we will. We need members of both parties to join hands and work with us to pass a $1 trillion infrastructure plan to build new roads and bridges and airports and tunnels and highways and railways all across our great nation. You're all part of this incredible movement. This movement that we talk about so much. That's been written about on the cover of every magazine all over the world. It's a movement that is just sweeping. It's sweeping across our country. It's sweeping frankly across the globe. Look at Brexit. Look at Brexit. Much smaller example, but it's still something you can look at. People want to take back control of their countries and they want to take back control of their lives and the lives of their family. The nation state remains the best model for human happiness and the American nation remains the greatest symbol of liberty, of freedom and justice on the face of god's earth. And now we have spirit like we've never had before. It's now that we have our sacred duty and we have no choice and we want this choice to defend our country, to protect its values and to serve its great, great citizens. Erasing national borders does not make people safer. It undermines democracy and trade prosperity. We're giving it away. The so-called global elite have done well for themselves, but left working families with shrinking wages. Really they are shrinking. 18 years ago though many of you in this room made more money working one job than you're making right now working two and three jobs. Instead of peace, we've seen wars that never end and conflicts that never seem to go away. We don't fight to win. We fight politically correct wars. We don't win anymore. We don't win at trade. We don't win in any capacity. We don't win anymore. We're going to start winning again. Believe me. And we have the chance now working together to deliver change for the ages. This will be change for the ages. Change like never before. To pursue real peace, real stability, and real prosperity. We want to secure our borders and protect our workers. To rebuild our military and our infrastructure. To fix our schools and restore safety to our neighborhoods. To bring hope and opportunity to our inner cities. To ensure a level playing field for all women in the workforce. To reform our tax code and remove the regulations that undermine growth and innovation. And to replace chaos and distrust with community and cooperation. The tired echoes of yesterday's fights. We're fighting battles that no longer help us. We're fighting battles that other people aren't treating us fairly in the fight. I'm a NATO fan, but many of the countries in NATO, many of the countries that we protect, many of these countries are very rich countries. They're not paying their bills. They're not paying their bills. They have to help us. No longer are we chained down by the discredited approaches of the past. No longer must we listen to those who have nothing to brag about, but failure. New circumstances demand new solutions. Americans have fought and won wars together. Our heroes have shed their blood together and lost their lives. Our citizens have raised their children together, fought for justice together, and shared common hopes and dreams from one generation to the next. Stretching back to the first day of our American independence. This is our legacy. It belongs to all of you. And it belongs to every man, woman, and child in our nation. Now is the time to call upon these deep ties in the name of bold acts. Let us move past the differences party and find a new loyalty rooted deeply in our country. We are all brothers and all sisters. We share one home. One destiny and one glorious American flag. We are united together by history and by providence. We will make America strong again. I promise. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Greater than ever before. May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much."
" the Tennessee  Detroit down do you stand  thank you very much hello Pennsylvania Pennsylvania well I'm thrilled to be back in this state that gave us American independence you know that American steel which we now have coming back by the way like never before and generations of American patriots thank you very much thank you thank you this is an incredible time for our country the unemployment rate in Pennsylvania has just reached an all-time historic low that's a pretty good stat how do you beat that somebody's going to come and run and they're gonna say they're gonna do good in the history of this country you just hit an all-time low that's pretty tough to be we've ended the last administration's eight-year war on Pennsylvania energy and we're unleashing clean coal and shale and America is now their number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world man this is a lot of people  I think next time we'll just have to get a bigger hangar that's a big hangar looking at  thank you thank you thank you very much and I thought that was the Sun in my eyes it's these stupid lights these people I mean what do we what are they doing it's really way that can turn those lights down folks crazy you've got a thing called the Sun we like the Sun better than the artificial matzoh wages are going way up crime is going way down and our military is more powerful right now than ever before and when we took over two and a half years ago our military was in big trouble it was depleted you know that it was depleted the equipment was old the planes were all we have the most beautiful fighter jets in the world being delivered now every day every day our spirit is strong our stride is back and our stand is clear we are finally putting like I said America first and after years of building up foreign countries we are now building up our country about time we've got the hottest economy anywhere in the world the United States added two hundred and sixty three thousand jobs just last month far exceeding any expectations and since the election we've created nearly six million new jobs now if I would have ever said that to the fake news media look at how many back there that's a lot of people that's a lot of people looks like the Academy Awards used to look before they decided to go political against us now the Academy Awards is you know but that includes a half a million brand new manufacturing jobs which the previous administration said will never happen will never happen and it wouldn't have happened if you had them or the like right here in Pennsylvania we've added a hundred and fifty five thousand new jobs including twenty thousand new construction jobs nobody thought that was possible and more than five million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps we're getting Americans off welfare and back into the workforce and it's happening by the thousands and thousands and thousands 1 million people have been lifted out of poverty and the poverty rate for African Americans has reached the lowest level ever recorded the Hispanic American African American and Asian American unemployment rates have also reached an all-time historic low those debates should be very easy when we meet whoever we're going to meet because statistically I mean maybe I don't know who knows politics is a crazy world but when you have the best employment numbers in history when you have the best unemployment numbers in history when you have the best economy probably that we've ever had I don't know how to help you lose this election right and actually that's just the beginning joining us tonight are many terrific Pennsylvania Republican leaders at the forefront of America's economic revival including members of Congress GT Thompson Scott Perry and Dan Muser you know them you know that they by the way they've really been great in Congress and they've helped me they're warriors also we have a couple of very popular guys that are with us and they've been incredible friends of mine Tom Marino and Lou Barletta  where are they hello fellas great people thank you and also Pennsylvania GOP chair vowel DiGiorgio Thank You Val as you know tomorrow there is a crucial election that's why I'm here I'm here to see you but I'll be seeing a lot of you over the next year I'll be here a lot I've gotta win this state gotta win this state we did great last I remember the polls the fake polls that they put out suppression they call them suppression Falls Pennsylvania will go to Hillary Clinton unfortunately for them didn't work out that  so but do you remember that night they wouldn't announce Pennsylvania there was 1% left if I lost every single vote I would win they wouldn't do it it gets later and later and then they announce Michigan we won Wisconsin we won and then they finally announced we won the great state of Pennsylvania  they had a hard time with that worry but we have a big race tomorrow you got to go raise your right hand you all promise I'm going to go out and vote and you know you're voting for so we have a great gentleman very successful businessman the 12th congressional district the Democrat running for the seat is a radical socialist the Democrat candidate wants to open your borders and whip fighting like hell with the worst laws to get those borders closed the wall is being built as we speak we'll have almost 500 miles of wall by the end of next year it's terrible  can you get him up here get him up here come on this guy  now we know who he's voting for thank you very much he said I'm from San Diego do you believe that he said I'm from San Diego and we need that wall and you know in San Diego as you know it's going up and now it's up and here's what they did in California they wanted the walls so badly and so I did it and I said you know maybe I shouldn't do it politically let them ask I did it and now it's beautiful people not coming in it's beautiful in serrate in San Diego and now they go out and say we didn't want the wall in the first place they didn't they wanted the wall desperately because they were being flooded with illegal immigrants is that right flooded now they don't have that but now they find that it's a terrible situation we're in but that's okay because we always win somehow we always find a way to win it would be awfully good if we sat down for 15 minutes we could stop up that border so perfectly the laws and the judges are so against us it's actually incredible but we're gonna win and we're winning now but it's it shouldn't be hard it should be really easy we raise you know that you know the word raise taxes does anybody like it they want to raise your taxes they go out and say we as Democrats want to raise your taxes they want to shut down your American energy they think these are good things they want to destroy your Second Amendment no more second than me the Republican candidate somebody who is absolutely a winner somebody that I didn't want to take a chance you know normally I can't do other things tonight I like you I love this state I figured hey it's a Monday we have an election tomorrow who the hell wants to sit around doing nothing on Monday night right and by the way the first lady sends her regards she campaigned here on our last day just before the election but we have a man who's a special man he's a successful businessman an owner he believes in protecting the border defending our Second Amendment he's not letting anything happen to your Second Amendment and you know what if we aren't smart it'll end for you with the Second Amendment it'll end for you and so many other things your taxes will go up you know they're talking about 7075 percent right you know what we have it down too and we got the business tax down to 21% from essentially over 40% Fred Keller is a tough man he's tough on crime he loves our military loves our police he loves our vets and he will always protect patients and he will always go for like me and I say it so strongly because the fake news doesn't want to say it we will always protect pre-existing conditions very important and by the way we got rid of the individual mandate the worst part of Obamacare and we almost had it repealed and replaced but we had one man that after campaigning for eight years he decided to go thumbs down at two o'clock in the morning that's all right but we'll end up we'll end up with even better because we have plans that are even better than that so that's good sometimes when you have adversity it works out actually better but I want Fred to please come on up you have to get out tomorrow Fred Keller 12th district he's gonna be a great congressman Fred  mr. president welcome to central Pennsylvania thank you for coming tonight to show your support for the hard-working people of Pennsylvania's 12th congressional district the people of north eastern and north central pennsylvania have been behind you since day one and mr. president our support for you is as strong today as it ever was in 2016 Pennsylvania put Donald Trump over the top and in 2020 we're gonna do it again  mr. president since you took office our economy is booming more people are working wages are rising and America again is respected across the globe  Pennsylvania do we want four more years we do mr. president we are making America great again I'm running for Congress to help President Trump take care of our vets make the middle-class tax cuts permanent build the wall and make sure that in everything we do we always make sure America's workers and families come first our opponent he wants to help Nancy Pelosi and the Washington liberals he wants to help them pass the green New Deal take away your healthcare and obstruct what our president is doing the states couldn't be higher this this election we're gonna let Donald Trump president again in 2020 but this election it begins tomorrow it begins tomorrow with a special election right here in Pennsylvania's 12th congressional district folks there couldn't be more at stake you need to talk to your friends family and neighbors and tell them if they want to help President Trump make America great they need to get out tomorrow and vote to send me to Congress thank you god bless you god bless our president and god bless the United States of America  Thank You Fred go get him Fred so get out tomorrow it's a little bit of a referendum you know a lot of people are watching this race I don't know if there are other races or not who the hell cares we have Fred we have to get Fred in there tomorrow if he wins they won't report it if he loses it'll be the greatest story in the history of our country they will make that into and we don't want that they will make that into the single greatest event that our country has ever seen I've had it before where somebody comes you know when we campaign for people they win and a lot of cases Andy Barr in Kentucky and I'm not just also you know we also won the Senate you wouldn't believe that if you read we won the Senate we picked up two additional seats remember they were going to win this in it but I campaigned I made 32 major stops in a short period of time do you think that's easy and then I had to make two more on the final day of a runoff Cindy hyde-smith she won she did great she did great but that was that was a lot of work and we won the Senate we got no praise we got no a Clemente we got nothing but you know what tomorrow Fred is a lot of lot of people are watching a lot of those fakers back there or watching and they're gonna they're gonna be reporting very positively I'm sure if he wins but gotta have sure you got to make sure he wins please you know what they'll say President Trump came to Pennsylvania and he went back home a loser I never want to be called elusive remember this we all together we I we ran one time and we'll want to know but it was for the big one now we're gonna have a second time we're gonna have another one and then we'll drive them crazy let ready and maybe if we really like it a lot and if things keep going like they're going we'll go and we'll do what we have to do we'll do a three and a four and a five but they'll have tomorrow we knew he yeah I don't want to say now we're gonna have another one and it's gonna be great and you know one of the things we're talking about the greatest probably I think political slogan of all time is what you haven't yet make America great again but now our military is so powerful we're taking on countries in trade that the Democrats and Republicans didn't do anything about no fairness for years and years China and so many other countries I don't want to embarrass cuz frankly a lot of my great people but they don't understand how they got away with it either but we have to make a decision soon do we keep our logo do we keep our slogan make America great again or it's very risky changing the most successful slogan has to be they think that was one of the greatest elections of all time and now we're taking the slogan or the logo from that election and possibly changing it but we've had a hundred and one or a hundred and two all-time high stock markets record stock markets we have just about the best unemployment in history including the absolute best for african-american Asian as you know an Hispanic so we have all of these records that we've been setting our military strong our Second Amendment is good everything's good so do we make it make America great again and we're going to go with cheers here one way or the other or do we make it keep America great you have son of look you know this you have some of these socialist wackos they want to double and triple your taxes and that won't come close to paying for they want to knock down all buildings in Manhattan and rebuild them without windows you know about that let's rebuild up glass is no good we don't want windows I used to love the view but I think we'll all be forced to close up windows no it's crazy what they're saying so many different things so do we want Keep America great or make America great again we'll go Keep America great first ready so keep America great or make America first Keep America gray now it's very hard to leave something that was so successful I've had people say even though it's not spot-on because in theory we've made America great again we certainly will by the time of the election but you look at the numbers but it's so good it's very hard to take a expression and say let's change it so let me have it for make America great again so now we go ready Keep America great  ready make America great again whoa Wow well I like it because they'll sell many many more hats that way we'll keep the Hat the same color though right you understand what I'm saying though about right Keep America great-looking I've had that response from others it's amazing I like to do polls that are cheap I hate to say it this is the cheap poll but it's better than any poll you could get the embassy they go out in the interview like a hundred and three people I got thousands here tonight well I think we'll have to consider that then but either way it's gonna be great we're gonna have a great campaign we have a great country and we have in fact made America great again we brought it back we brought it back and I'll tell you our country is respected again all you have to do is speak to the folks in China in Japan speak to the folks no matter where you go the European nations you speak to them you go European Union as an example they've badly mistreated us for many years but they sound good I say the biggest are they're all European Union we need a doctor please a doctor please do we have a doctor doctor in the house please thank you doctor thank you take your time some of these people in the front row they've been here for two days and I don't I don't blame him right I don't blame them they've been waiting in line for two days and stuff thank you fellas thank you take your time doctor take your time those are our friends right there those are our friends take your time  how're they doing are they she gonna be good gonna be good doc everything okay you're good good we stick together folks we stick together take your time take your time we love you too even with that powerful man's voice I love that guy I think I'm in love  thank you thank you very much and thank you thank you thank you for taking doctor thank you for such a good job thank you very much under my administration we're reversing years of failed trade policies that crushed Pennsylvania's middle class you know that better than anybody you know it better than anybody what they did to Pennsylvania in particular Ohio Pennsylvania some of the states in particular frankly North Carolina what they did was disgraceful what they did to the workers they took out your businesses they moved them to other countries they sold back the product with no taxes nothing you lost your jobs we lost revenue and nobody even apologized except me I said we're going to turn it around and that's what we've done now we have companies are pouring back into our country they want to be where the action is they're pouring back including the auto company in the 8 years before my election the United States lost a quarter of a million manufacturing jobs but the great betrayal of the American worker ended on day one the day I took office and you know that better than anyone the Forgotten men and women of America will never ever be forgotten again it's not gonna happen and they're looking for you they're trying to figure out who the hell were all these people where did they come from remember the deplorable deplorable you know I watched your speech well she actually said I thought worse she said deplorable and didn't you say irredeemable x' to show you how good I am politically I said oh that's a killer the word irredeemable is - well it turned out to be deplorable was the word that caught on right I would say irredeemable is worse than deplorable what do you think but they believe in both and not only her it's the Democrats upon my inauguration I inherited one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated it was ready to be put into action the trans-pacific partnership it would have destroyed the state of Pennsylvania the TPP was a gift for the lobbyists and the donors and the special interests and the foreign countries that have made a fortune hurting the American worker the TPP would have been a catastrophe for the people of Scranton and Allentown and Pittsburgh in my first week I proudly withdrew the United States from further negotiations on that job-killing disaster which by the way would have destroyed our auto business would have destroyed it just like NAFTA just like NAFTA was such a disaster this would have been worse it's no wonder that when Joe Biden announced he's running for president by the way by the way we have thousands of people so and this is it I'm not even announcing today we'll wait for a couple of weeks okay this is just we're going for Fred look at the thousands and thousands of people we have now they said he had 600 people now now very good very good I'd say 150 and that was doing an announcement right I'd say 150 people but he announced he's running for president and he said it's because foreign leaders called him up and begged him to do it absolutely foreign countries liked it much better that's what they want they want Biden so that China can continue to make five hundred billion dollars a year and more ripping off the United States they like it you look at what these countries have made we lost on just trade 800 billion dollars on average for many years 800 billion not million 800 millions a lot 800 billion it's not even conceivable and we didn't do anything about it and I mean not only President Obama I mean others too it's a shame but we're straightening it out it's not easy it's not easy because we have a lot of assaults from within but we're straightening it out and it's getting done and you see what's going with China we're taking in we will soon be taken in over a hundred billion dollars in tariffs so remember this they subsidize their product people are moving from China now to go to areas that aren't tariff we're going to build places in Pennsylvania and others rather than order it like the old days remember the old days we actually made our own product okay we made our own very expensive for China they're not happy but that's okay it'll all work out foreign countries liked it much better when they could push us around rip us off and make us pay for the privilege of handing over our jobs and handing over our wealth eight long years ago if you remember I said it's really bad we're never going back the previous administration what they did to our country they should be ashamed of themselves sleepy joe said that he's running to quote saved the world well he was he's gonna save every country but ours and remember he said a week ago China's not a competitor China's Nautica but you know hey look what they've done to us is indescribable economically we have rebuilt China they've done a great job and I don't blame China I don't blame President Xi I don't blame them look we allowed it to happen our leaders allowed it to happen well it's not happening anymore Iran and we have saved America we made America great again and we're gonna keep America great that's what it is and if you don't mind we're gonna take a little bit of money out of the hundred billion dollars that we're saving we're gonna take a little bit of money okay doctor get the same doctor get the same doctor he was great are you okay okay we'll be okay go ahead take your time  take your time I love these people  we'll be okay they say come on let's go make sure she's okay make sure Thank You time now the truth is there's a lot of excitement that these rallies and they wait a long time and people are excited how exciting good a lot of excitement a lot of energy we have a lot of low-energy people out there that we're competing against Low Energy but vicious they're vicious but they're lower thank you  yeah no more spying on Trump I think they learned that didn't work out too well  he did a good job he did a good job where is where is Don Jr Don  they like the job you did  okay thank you thank you very much great job thank you so the very same establishment that sacrificed our prosperity weakened our military and tied us down through endless wars that never ended folks they never ended you saw what we did with the Caliphate now you have to understand these people are stone-cold crazy so you never say you won because then they blow up a store they hurt and kill people they're totally crazy but we beat and took a hundred percent of the Caliphate the area the land took a hundred percent and did it very rapidly very rapidly hope we want to start bringing our people back home we win and bring him back home and now they're asking us to repeat history and relive the same failures all over again the failures they brought you like you wouldn't believe and we're never going to let it happen one of the worst fiestas from our former leaders was the disaster of NAFTA all buildings in Pennsylvania in New England all over they were a total they're empty and even to this day some were converted to nursing homes some were taken over but you still see the shock of what they went down and now we're replacing them with brand-new beautiful buildings we've got it up we've got it working again all over the country we're building plants and factories like actually forever before nearly two decades ago the same politicians who gave us NAFTA also voted to admit China into the World Trade Organization a disastrous really decision I mean that was a disastrous decision since then we've lost 60,000 nut jobs listen to this 60,000 factories here's the good news we're building them all back they're coming back you know I used to give that because it was really two years ago so many have come back but I used to give that number and I used to say it's got to be a mistake you can't lose 60,000 factories and when the fake dues didn't correct me I knew that I was correct because if I was off by one factory they would have said he made a mistake past leaders let China freely plunder the United States economy and take the crown jewels of American industry now we are finally responding to years of chronic trade abuses by defending our workers with tariffs and anything else that's necessary because nobody's going to steal our businesses nobody's gonna close our factories and nobody's going to close our plants any more they're all coming back and anyone who doesn't want to pay the tariffs as the simple solution build your product in America bring your factories back to Pennsylvania where you want to be anyway you never wanted to leave in the first place stupid policy and taxes forced you out under this administration we're living by two simple rules by American and hire American rights to protect our national security we also impose a 10% tariff on foreign aluminum and a 25% tariff on foreign steel and what that's done for your aluminum and steel in this country is incredible now just this month United States Steel announced that it will invest more than 1 billion dollars to completely transform and make new the manhua you know that you know where this is right next to Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh does anyone know Mon Valley works near Pittsburgh they're spending over a billion dollars thousands of jobs the newest the finest equipment in the world they're going to make steel again in our country they haven't been building new plants for decades together we're putting Pennsylvania steel back into the spine of America and as we defend our jobs we're also defending our borders and it's tough as I said no betrayal of American workers has been worse than the Democrat party's pursuit of open borders they want everybody to come in and they're coming up by the thousands and I'll tell you what our Border Patrol our law enforcement ice they are working they're apprehending 30 40 50 thousand people at times I mean just in short periods of times the laws are so bad if you don't release them they arrest you they arrest people that are working in law enforcement it's a disgrace Democrat backed policies have left our borders overrun our detention facilities overwhelmed as fast as we build them they fill up and our hospital schools and public resources overburdened our country is full we don't want people coming up here our country is full we want Mexico to stop we want all of our country is packed to the gills we don't want them coming up  Democrats claim to take care of the poor that's what they want to do it's not happening that way the poor of being hurt the middle-income of being hurt we would lose our businesses we would lose everything if we go with the people that you see that are running for office you saw that last night I watched Alfred E Neuman what's going on with Fox by the way what's going on there and putting more Democrats on then you have Republicans it's something strange is going on at Fox well something very strange did you see this guy last night I did want to watch that you always have to watch the competition if you call it that and he was knocking the hell out of Fox and Fox's put him if somebody's gonna have to explain the whole Fox deal to me Democrats even want to give welfare and free health care to anyone who crosses our border they want free health care free education free anything Republicans believe we should take care of our own people our citizens we have no choice that's why we don't want them to come and that's why my administration has published a new rule to ensure our limited supply of public housing is safeguarded for low-income Americans not for illegal aliens who are fighting to get it will soon be taking further action to ensure that federal benefits are preserved for hardworking citizens who need them the most we're also outlining historic pro-american immigration reform it's working its way through I must tell you some of it's not going to happen unless you vote for Republicans in the upcoming election and I will tell you it's not very far away and you're gonna have great immigration laws people that no idea how bad they were to remember even three or four weeks ago they would say there's no emergency at the border this number now everybody is admitting I agree this an emergency I've been saying that for two years the choice is simple Republican policies protect us workers Democrat policies protect smugglers traffickers and even criminal aliens and drug dealers like you've never seen the drugs we're capturing them we don't let them go we capture them and we do it very very sadly it's almost like routine but you have drug dealers coming into our country and making our people sick and we're capturing them at just one example the sanctuary city of Philadelphia released a previously deported and from prison rather than cooperate with federal authorities after his release that criminal alien raped a very young child Republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law-abiding Americans not for criminal aliens and we always stand with the heroes of ice and Border Patrol and law enforcement our police have been incredible and we want to thank them too because I'll tell you even tonight I see their way the way they're working and I hope the cameras get to see this crowd you know usually they'll show like four people behind me people will say what is it a large crowd I said well you could tell by them they can actually tell by the cheering you know sounds like a  they don't like to show the crowd explain that to me and I'm trying to tell them it's really good for television to show the crowd don't you show they show like this there's three or four people behind me that will be very famous tomorrow but they have lousy seats tonight so I think you're better on the issue of the Democrat Party it's never been further outside from the mainstream than it is now these people have gone nuts more than 120 Democrats in Congress have signed up for Bernie Sanders total government takeover of health care now tell me many of you have phenomenal health care yet private health care 180 million people they want to take it away from you they want to take away your health care your health insurance they want to take it away Democrats are now the party of high taxes high crime open borders late term abortion killing you Second Amendment and radical socialism the Republican Party is the party that America wants that's what America wants we're the party of the American worker with the party of the American family and with the party of the American Dream every day we make good on our motto promises made promises kept we've kept more promises than we've even made you take a look at what we've done between regulations and taxes and I mean think of it right to try you know what right to try is I won't go into it you don't want to be there but now we can give them the benefit of the great research we have the best in the world and there's a lot of great things happening I signed that eight months ago a lot of great things happening with write to try we passed the largest package of tax cuts in the history of our country we eliminated 30,000 pages of job-killing regulations from the Federal Register and that's an all-time record and I would view the United States I thought I'd be hit hard on this one and I wasn't just asked how are they doing in Paris from the past administration's job killing Paris climate Accord which would have cost a fortune and would have hurt our country horribly we will never allow foreign bureaucrats and countries to trample on our sovereignty or to shut down our jobs which is what that would have done yet every Democrat running for president wants to reopen the economic assault on Pennsylvania by crippling the call and jail industries and by crippling your now once again great steel industry your steel industry is great so if you want American energy you have to go Republican if you want a great country you have to vote Republican we've appointed more than 100 federal judges already soon to be a record to apply the law as written including well you know this two great Supreme Court justices neo corsets and"
" ladies and gentlemen please welcome for the President of the United States     thank you very much everybody thank you wow I will never ever let you down that I can tell you and I want to thank Manchester and New Hampshire a very special you remember those primaries that primary came around and remember what happened during the primary Trump should come in third or fourth and we came in easily number one and that was the beginning that was an easy one I want to thank you all this is incredible and it's great to be back in a state that I love with thousands of hard-working Patriots who are the heart and soul of America and this would and we're actually here today to officially launch our campaign to win the great state of New Hampshire in 2020 and I saw some fake polls put out by the fake news media and I said that I'm tied I'm tied with three of the other candidates the Democrats I'm tied in New Hampshire I don't think so I've been making  one of them as the rallies got a hundred people so this holds 12,000 we're full and we could fill it up four times at least we could fill it up four times but I just want to thank you all I just think it's going to be a tremendous four years we're gonna have a tremendous four years can you believe it we only have a little more than a year to go where it all started right the greatest movement in the history of our country the greatest political movement in the history of our country and even though we had fake witch hunts on our back and all the other things that we had to go through we have taken this big beautiful ship and it's being turned around very quickly three years ago we campaigned across the country on a pledge to make America great again and that's exactly what we've done I think we can honestly say it's the greatest slogan in the history of politics in America make America great again so if you don't mind you know the other candidates go they spend millions and millions of dollars on this question that I'm gonna ask you they spend millions you remember the first slogan from our opponent that's right neither do I neither this head nobody remembers the only thing I remember is the first night I went out after I heard it and I said see it's all about her and they immediately changed it after spending like a million dollars they said it's all about her that didn't work out too well that slogan wasn't too good so we have to do this we have to make a decision do you give up the greatest slogan in the history of politics in our country making America great again right so do we give up make America great again for a new slogan because look our country is doing great we are doing very well with China despite the fact that they want to have you believe to the contrary all you have to do is say China how you doing they're not too happy and not too happy they're losing millions of jobs the tariffs are working and they're eating the tariffs by the way there's no price increase you know you got to talk to these people the fake news but do we give up and by the way the biggest beneficiary you know have been great our great farmers have been so incredible because they've been targeted by China and frankly they've been targeted for a long time including by incompetent politicians that have run this country for a long time so we're making up for a lot of lost ground but do we give up make America great again for Keep America great  okay you ready ready I love this because it's free and we have all the time in the world right is there anything better than a Trump rally what about a sleepy Joe Biden rally  all right why he's made some beauties I sorta hope it's him I don't mind any of them you got Pocahontas is rising  you got Kabbalah Kamala is falling you got Vado bado is like gone  but we'll see what happens whoever you know whoever it is I don't know that it matters but whoever it is different different people but I don't know I think sleepy Joe may be able to limp across the finish line I think but today they announced that they're going to cut way back on his appearances because he is such a disaster they're gonna have fewer appearances you've heard that right this is sir they're gonna cut way back on his appearances can you believe it if I ever did that it would be over the fake news would get us but we don't let him get us and it is faked and today the deputy editor of the New York Times was demoted is that beautiful all the news that's not fit to print you know all the news the fake fairly New York Times so why do I go with what do we go you know it's really we it's not me I'm we're doing it together they came from the hills they came from the mountains from the rivers from they came from all over the place and they showed up and they voted like nobody's seen before and it was 306 to 223 remember and we won Wisconsin and they said oh we never thought of that got to think about those things and we won Michigan and now we have a lot of car companies coming into Michigan and we have a lot of great farming events happening really big in Wisconsin and we have incredible things going on in Pennsylvania we just opened up a ten billion dollar plant we have many of them going up they have a lot of jobs spending ten in Louisiana an LNG plant ten billion dollars could never have happened could never have happened Pennsylvania would have never happened they wouldn't have loud him to frack so they would have never been able to build it but what a place that is it'll be open in a little more than a year but I have to make a decision it's a big decision do we give up the greatest theme phrase logo whatever you want to call it and the history of politics risky for a brand new one because make America great again we're really sort of there and we have a little time left and now we have a group of socialists or communists could be they're not far away now the fake news will hit me on that how dare he say that but they're not far away right they're not far away 95% does anybody want to pay 95 percent tax on oil I don't think so so but I'm not going to go into their plan because as far as I'm concerned the green New Deal is a beautiful thing no it's a beautiful thing we wanted to continue onward until about a month before the election I will let them have it like you've never heard before I don't want it to change it's like Elizabeth Warren I did the Pocahontas thing I hit her really hard and it looked like she was down and out but that was too long ago I should have waited but don't worry we will revive it it can be revived it can be rewrite it will be revived and it can be revived very easily and very quickly and we're gonna have some fun in the state of New Hampshire now what do we do ready let me have first make America great again then Keep America great right just applaud like crazy for the one you want to use for this campaign and there's a possibility we'll use both there's a possibility we'll use both because I hate like hell I hate like hell to give up the one is there a possibility we use both maybe one a little bit less are you ready so we'll start make America great again and then keep American ok are you ready who's in favor of the campaign theme being make America great again who's in favor of our theme being Keep America great  so oh wait a minute this is your hand please I was gonna keep it actually thank you thank you so that's really been the reaction I've done this before big crowds and it really is Keep America great because we have these socialists want to take it away from us they want to take it away so it works because until a couple of days ago and that will catch up very quickly we have no choice by the way I never said China was going to be easy but it's not tough and they want to make a deal we just spoke to them yesterday they want to make a deal they want to make a deal I have to make a deal and you know what it'd be wonderful to make a deal I don't think we're ready to make a deal would take it in billions of dollars in tariffs and and again China's devaluing their currency they're pouring out money the prices haven't gone up so that means we take it in billions of dollars we're not paying for it and ultimately they're devaluations are going to hurt them very badly they want to make a deal and they should want to make a deal but when you listen to the fake news look at how many there are that son  I mean I actually had something today I had something today are we sure that we're in New Hampshire you know you have a reputation I mean I know it's not true cuz I know you do well you have a reputation the big very staid very very elegant state incredible people you're not acting it tonight and that's good that's a good thing we we love our country we have enthusiasm for our country but that's what it is that's why that's what it is before the election our factories were closing hey who knows it better than you you're like central casting for the closing of factories our jobs were vanishing our military was totally depleted when I took over our military was said we weren't flying half of our planes they were old they were tired our equipment was tired our people weren't tired though our people weren't tired but everything we had it was depleted now we've rebuilt our military like never before and all made in the USA to say you know and our nation was weakened at home and disrespected abroad they don't disrespect us anymore folks I got NATO to pay an extra hundred billion dollars they weren't paying they were delinquent many nations were except for seven many nations weren't paying what they were supposed to be paying so we're supposed to protect them they'd kill us on trade they have all sorts of barriers and everything else the taxes are really unfair the tariffs were ridiculous what they do to us in Europe and then we protect them that they don't pay and I say I'm sorry folks you have to pay you have to pay they were delinquent they were delinquent and my biggest fan is Secretary General Stoltenberg from NATO he said until President Trump came along we were going boom they would have been finished very quickly but I'm tired of paying for other nations anyway I have to be honest with and today our nation is stronger than ever before we're now stronger than ever before you saw we ended the Iran disaster how about that we paid him 150 billion dollars 1.8 billion in cash cash cash cash we got nothing and they also want to make a deal China wants to make a deal and I will tell you Iran wants to make a deal because the sanctions are not good for them they are not happy so we'll see how it all turns out but it's a good hands it's a good news the United States right now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world we're rebuilding  that awesome mite that we were just talking about our United States Armed Forces America is working again America is winning again and America is respected again respected like never before they respect us again and you say it you know recent poll came out where it showed that President Obama was more popular in Germany and other places than I am and I said of course he's more popular he's not demanding that they pay for their protection that we provide he's not doing that I'm doing that and in fact if I was the most popular I'm not doing my job right okay so true we've created over 6 million new jobs since the election if I would have said that during the campaign those people back there would have been headlines headlines more than 7 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps since my election the number of new businesses starting in the great state of New Hampshire has skyrocketed by almost 25 percent and you can't really go by my election you got to go by November 9th because you know the markets have gone through the roof since November 9th that's the day after I won the election so I won the election the markets run up thousands of points things started happening you started doing things that you would have never even though I didn't get sworn in until January 20th but they refused to do that and let me tell you if for some reason I wouldn't have won the election these markets would have crashed and that'll happen even more so in 2020 see the bottom line is I know you liked me and this room is a love fest I know that but you have no choice but to vote for me because your 401ks down the tubes everything's going to be down the tubes so whether you love me or hate me you got a vote for me I had a businessman the other day one of the most successful guys in the country I've never liked him never liked him he never liked me I never liked him I see him in the White House I said what are you doing here he said I'm working to make sure you get elected I said you gotta be kidding you don't like me I don't like you what the hell is this all about he said that's right we've had our differences I haven't liked you but to be honest with you mr. president I have no choice I said you're right you're right first thing I've ever heard him say that I agreed with he's got no choice we got no choice unemployment in New Hampshire has reached the lowest rate in actually 31 years but within a very short period of time it will be the lowest rate in the history of our country so think of that you have the best unemployment you have the most successful stay in the history of your state and in the history of our country and then you're gonna vote for somebody else oh great let's vote for Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren  we have the best numbers we've ever had let's vote for somebody else I don't think that's gonna happen folks I don't think that's gonna happen only with fixed polls does that happen unemployment for african-americans you've heard me say this many times I'm very proud of it Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans have all reached their lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our country wages are rising quickly remember when I used to say people have been working two and three jobs making less money than they made 21 years ago I used to say it all the time now I can say for the first time in 20 years wages are rising and you know who's the biggest beneficiary blue-collar workers my administration is fighting to expand opportunity for citizens of every background and every race religion color and Creed very important because we are all Americans we all share the same home we all share the same heart we all share the same dreams we are all children of the same Almighty God but at the very moment when our country should be coming together to enjoy these wonderful blessings the Radical Democrats are trying to tear America apart they vilify anyone who doesn't share their extreme views they slander our law enforcement heroes you see what they're doing with our police that we love you see what they're doing has anyone ever seen anything like the water being thrown on New York's finest have you ever seen  and I know a lot of New York's finest they're not happy they're not happy and they are great people these are great great proud people for that to be allowed to happen is a disgrace they view everybody is fascists and Nazis they used the term Nazi this was a term you couldn't even use it now they used it like on a regular basis at Nazi he's a Nazi think of that he's a Nazi you couldn't use it now they use it they accuse our heroic border agents of running concentration camps and they do an incredible job and the Democrats don't want to fix the loopholes or asylum they do an incredible job of border agents and they look down upon the hard-working citizens who truly make our country run but while the Democrats rage and regions  that guy's got a serious weight problem go home start exercising get him out of here please  got a bigger problem than I do got a bigger problem than all of us now he goes home and his mom says what the hell have you just got we are continuing our incredible movement the greatest political movement in the history of our country there's never been a movement like this never our movement is built on love and it is and we love our family we love our faith we love our flag and we love our freedom and that's what it's about and there too that the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our country together we are all united by one fundamental principle a nation's first duty must always be to its own citizens its own we're gonna take care of you haven't heard that from a politician or a political leader in a long time it's called America first it's America we're thrilled to be joined tonight by many tremendous Republican leaders and great friends of mine a man who's doing an incredible job as your governor because I want to take a hundred percent of the credit for the incredible turnaround of New Hampshire and I remember it not so long ago things were not looking good people were leaving a lot of bad things were happening but we have to give him a lot of credit he's been a great governor Chris Sununu with a great father - great father with a great father his father was tough Chris your father was so tough he was for somebody else in the primers and then one by one I went here I won there one day and then when I won his father got her and I said oh this guy kills me he's so tough and he said President Trump will be the greatest of all time he said I said what happened what happened he went from being the toughest critic to the best there is so I want to say hello to your father okay Chris you'll tell him great guy what a family what a family thank you for New Hampshire Senate Republican leader Chuck Morse New Hampshire House Republican leader dick hinge thanks thank you dick Thank You dick great job a man who is with me right from the beginning in fact he had a meeting at his house his house has never been the same his house is a disaster now feck somebody said he just sold it but you know what because of the Trump economy I'll bet he sold it for a big big fat beautiful profit where is Steve Steve stepanak and his wife was incredible did you make a lot of money in the house and we destroyed the house this was the beginning he held some kind of a meeting for me and he has the nice house but literally hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people showed up and they destroyed this house it's never been the same no wonder you sold it they finally gave up and that was four years ago anyway thank you very much both for being here appreciate it what great people thank you Steve great job and I hope the buyer of his house didn't hear that little sieve I hope the buyer didn't hear what I just said about yes he'll cancel that's all right you'll sell it for more to somebody else don't work Republican party chair rana mcdaniel you know Rana headed up Michigan and for many many years nobody won Michigan is a Republican but I used to complain and you know just I'd go there and I'd say they're stealing you car business I go for years in fact five or six years before I even thought about running for whatever reason they named me Man of the Year in Michigan I said how come I didn't even understand it myself but I was named Man of the Year I wasn't even political that was years before I did this but I was always complaining that our car business is being stolen I mean it's sort of obvious right Mexico now has 32 percent of our car business at all left the state of Michigan we are bringing it back at a level that nobody's ever seen before our car person but but I went to Michigan and my opponent was sold that the Republicans no way you can win Michigan or Wisconsin that you just can't and we had a campaign manager's name Ronna McDaniel and Ronna wouldn't stop sir can you be here next week I say I don't know then I leave and she said sir can you come back in three days I said I don't know then I do it and she said how about another time and then on election night she said sir who was six o'clock the day before the election in other words just a short while before the election she calls me sure can you be here tonight I said tonight and by the way you know where I was I was in New Hampshire she said sir can you be here tonight I said are you sure I started speaking at one o'clock in the morning now it's election day we had 32,000 people show up it was like this the crowd was just they want to see things happen in our country they loved our country it went crazy and I left and I said I don't know why we're gonna lose Michigan why would we lose Michigan look at this and the opponent went there with Barack Obama and Michelle Obama and she went there much earlier primetime 1 o'clock 2 o'clock in the mornings not exactly prime time so we had 32,000 and they had a tiny little crowd and I looked at my people and I say I know we're not supposed to win the great state of Michigan but I think we're gonna win Michigan and we won Michigan and we won Wisconsin we won Miss concert Wisconsin was a great victory and we won Pennsylvania and we won North Carolina and South Carolina and we won Florida and I hate to tell you we should have won New Hampshire that was taken away New Hampshire was taken away it was taken away from us but we should have we did great in New Hampshire we should have won New Hampshire but that's okay I'm not holding it against you because it was not your fault but we had a woman in Michigan and I said when it came time to choosing the head of the Republican National Committee I said who the hell is that woman up and Michigan that got me to keep coming there and explaining that we can't continue to lose our car business we have 17 companies now coming back in who is that woman and it was Rana we put her in charge of the Republican National Committee the job that she has done is incredible thank you and the same with another man our campaign manager he started off as a computer genius and remember when they used to say that the Hillary Clinton campaign is highly sophisticated hi Lisa  she did a lot of bad things folks 33,000 emails deleted after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress 33 pounds remember she said it was about her daughter's wedding and yoga classes 33000 yes  it was disgraceful I will tell you this we now have a great Attorney General a fair guy great gentleman so another manners here tonight is the world's tallest campaign manager he is an unbelievable talent but they were saying about our opponent I'm not going to mention the name again because I'll never get my will never get it finished here so I'll just say my opponent is that better and and they were saying how sophisticated her campaign was except ours was far more sophisticated and we had a man that did an incredible job and he's now our campaign manager and he's one of the tallest human beings I've ever seen and his name is Brad parse Cal and he is it's nice when you don't have to look for anybody you just look over and you see a guy who's twice as tall as everyone great job Brad thank you how we doing Brad good got great poll numbers we got great poll numbers in a lot of states Ohio Iowa you know Iowa every week that they campaign our numbers go up they're winning Iowa we gave a methanol which is very important a lot of things for Iowa but every week received to be going up in Iowa because they're campaigning and Iowa wherever they go our numbers go up somebody's gonna have to explain that one to me someday but we like it a man who's a friend of mine who was the greatest mayor in the history of New York City  whoo stand up Rudy Rudy Julia man he did a job he did a job and the first year I've never seen anything like it New York was crime-infested we had problems we had problems like nobody would believe and Rudy went in there and he did the job and people loved him for it it wasn't like oh gee he's a horrible person people loved Rudy Giuliani he was a great great mayor so Thank You Rudy for being here and the first person that I put on on the campaign he was driving me wild he said I'm saying you could win sir you can win I'm telling you you can win he loves her state he's from this state he said you can win sir I'm just telling you and I had him on for month after month he come drive me crazy so you can win you can win you can win and finally we said let's give it a shot and I had Corey I had hope I had just a couple of people we had a rather lean and mean staff but Corey Lewandowski loves your state loves New Hampshire he was the first one that talked about us possibly winning the whole big ballgame and he's tough and he's smart and I'm hearing he's thinking about running for the Senate from New Hampshire I think it'd be tough to beat I'll tell you one thing he'll go into Washington and he's gonna have you in mind he's gonna do a job if he does do it so we'll see what happens he hasn't made up his mind yet but he would be he would be fantastic and I guess it's something you go back and you talk to your family you talk to your wife and you make a decision they're all saying are you gonna support him I said I don't know if he's running so Cory let us know please let us know our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker pro-jobs pro-family pro-growth and 100% pro-american for decades and decades the permanent politicians in Washington pursued the very opposite they sold out our workers you see it you know it better than any place when I talk about the horrors of NAFTA the horrors of trade deals I mean I'm sorry to tell you this I usually refer to New Hampshire nobody took it worse than New England and nobody took it worse than New Hampshire now here's the good news I would never let that happen again and Chris will never let that happen again is there a doctor please doctor in the house thank you doctor in the house please doctor please thank you very much take your time take your time   take your time fellas plenty of time  you know people got here two and a half days ago many of these people in the front two and a half two and a half days ago a lot of these people so you can understand it's pretty tough thank you  that's okay  these are great people these are great people that love our country  thank you very much thank you thank you very much pretty good pretty good so while politicians shipped away our jobs shed our sovereignty surrendered our dignity and saddled our nation in one foreign debacle after another and we're still here eat yourself we're still here you better believe it and we're here stronger than ever before we here but all of that ended the day that I took the oath of office the American people are in charge of their country again we've got a record number of job-killing regulations they were strangling our country we cut more regulations in two and a half years than any other president in their full terms four years eight years or in one case more than that cut more than anybody to get relief to working families we passed the largest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country you're making a lot more money you may get a lot more money and you see it and you know it because you see it in your paycheck every week we ended last administration's cool war on American energy and we are delivering a policy of American energy independence like you've never seen before and in fact if you look at the Straits where we're having all of the problems you look at the Straits number one they're not touching our ships that are playing with our ships they're taking them from this country from that country from that country but you know what very importantly we have very few ships going there anymore because we don't need that oil and gas and the United States is now the number-one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world every leading Democrat has pledged to abolish the American oil coal and natural gas industries that are fueling our economic boom can you imagine this we're sitting on great wealth they want to take it away from us and the alternatives don't have the power they don't have the power they want wind wind wind is oh so beautiful as long as you don't have to stare at a windmill and your house goes down and value like to nothing Steve have you had a windmill anywhere near your house you would have gotten one-third the price you got Steve that's true by the way Steve's too smart to let that happen we won't let them take it away from you we are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that shattered New Hampshire and your factories they shattered your communities and they shattered American power and American prestige all around the globe New Hampshire lost one in four manufacturing jobs following NAFTA and China's entrance into the World Trade Organization two of the worst deals ever in the history of our world not just our country election after election politicians came to your state pretending to have the courage to stand up for the American worker then they went to Washington and let other countries push them around and special interests buy them off and steal your jobs and take your companies what happened me I don't care about their campaign contributions it doesn't matter to me folks we want to do a job we want to do a great job and we're setting records and you know who sending us the money the small donors we have big donors but we have small donors are sending us the money for the election pretty amazing that's not supposed to happen to a Republican but it's happening to this Republic and it's happening to you every vow that politicians made was broken every hope was dashed and every promise turned into a total betrayal of New Hampshire and of our country but in this administration we have something those sellout politicians could only dream of it's called strength and commitment we don't play games we don't play games after years and years of building up other countries we are finally building up our country standing up for our jobs our workers and standing up for our dignity  The Forgotten men and women of America will never ever be forgotten again you were forgotten the last administration was sleepy Joe and Obama tried to ran through one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated worse than NAFTA worse than WTO it was called the trans-pacific partnership it would have been a disaster TPP would have gutted the American auto industry would have been in shambles our auto industry is coming back so strong would have gutted would have destroyed the industry but in my first week in office I proudly were through the United States from that job destroying catastrophe and we're imposing beautiful well placed tariffs money comes in on foreign countries that cheat our workers steal our jobs and break all of the rules I'm sorry and by the way they've been changing and charging tariffs on us for years we have countries that you are just 100 percent two hundred percent two hundred and ninety seven percent in the case of Canada with your farm products we're not going to stand for it and man did we turn things around and we've just started if companies don't want to pay a tariff I have one simple solution come make your product in America come make your product in New Hampshire zero tariffs zero no Tara together we're restoring this nation's industrial mine and we are doing it with American iron American aluminum and American steel with doing steel steel industry is high steel and they were dumping steel all over they were destroying our companies you are steel now all of them they're all expanding to steel industry is back it's doing great we're opening up mines in Minnesota the great state of Minnesota they are magnificent mines that have the best iron ore in the world and President Obama closed them down maybe we can get representative Omar from Minnesota to open up but I don't think she'll open them up I don't think so representative Omar that's another one we're replacing NAFTA with the brand-new USMC a that's Mexico and Canada great deal the u.s. MCA will create countless jobs for farmers manufacturers all across the state we need Congress to pass the u.s. MCA immediately we'll make it a bipartisan deal we don't even want credit the unions benefit the non unions benefit everybody benefits it brings it back to fairness and it makes it very hard "
"  thank you very much hello Dallas it's great to be with you tonight thank you and I am thrilled to be here deep in the heart of Texas where we just opened a beautiful new louis vuitton plant when I'm with the freedom-loving Patriots of the Lone Star State I love there has never been a better time to be a proud Texan and there's never a better better time to be a proud American that never has so I came from a small town Alvarado Texas where we celebrated the incredible revival of American manufacturing and we opened up some beautiful places I'll tell you this place is doing great and created in a very short period of time an extra 1,000 jobs for Texas since my election we've created 775 thousand new jobs of course you state including 70,000 Texas manufacturing jobs they said those jobs had disappeared didn't they man our country is once again living by two simple rules by American and higher American the economy is booming our people are prospering our country is thriving and our nation is stronger than ever before but the more America jeeves the more hateful and enraged these crazy Democrats become crazy they're crazy they are crazy at stake in this fight is their survival of American democracy itself don't kid yourself that's what they want they are destroying this country but we will never let it happen not even twice for three straight years radical Democrats have been trying to overthrow the results of a great great election maybe maybe the greatest election in the history of our country and they want to impose an extreme agenda they cannot pass it and they cannot win it at the ballot box they're not going to win they're not even they won't come close in 2020 they know it they know they're not gonna win it they say let's see what's another idea what's another idea how do we win this election you know I really don't believe anymore that they love our country I don't believe  crazy Nancy thank you that crazy Nancy she is crazy  and shifty chef how about this guy how about this he makes up my conversation which was perfect he makes up my conversation he sees what I said it doesn't play well because it was perfect so he made up a totally false conversation with the Ukrainian president  and we caught him cold everybody knew it anyway see we did one thing you always have to do the unexpected they never thought I'd release the conversation with the Ukrainian president I want to get him before Congress and I want to see what he has to say you know they say he has immunity why would you have immunity for outright fraud why do you have immunity why he's a fraud we're fighting a campaign against leftist socialist and globalist who want to return to reckless wars open borders rampant crime and totally disastrous one-way trade deals with changing that went around very quickly they believe America is the world's piggy bank and that your tax dollars should subsidize the economy military and defense of every other nation in the world but our own it's not happening our political opposition made its fortune selling out our nation and its citizens and you know that's what's been happening and that's why 2016 was so important and that's why 2020 I can never say it's more important but you know it's like the roots of a tree you plant the baby tree it's got a catch get that extra time we'll have more tax cuts we'll have even I'll tell you what we have rebuilt our military what we've done has never been done before the do-nothing Democrats have betrayed our country and that great betrayal is over we are finally again and we've been doing it now for almost three years can you believe we've been doing this I've been a politician for three years I can't believe that I never thought I'd be called the politician I don't like it but it is what it is but we're finally again putting America first the Radical Democrats want to destroy America's we know it they want to indoctrinate our children and teach them that America is a sinful wicked nation you see that happening all the time and I know it from personal experience what they want to teach your kids not good they come home mommy daddy this is what I learned and you're going oh no don't tell me let's get them into another school fast they want to disarm law-abiding citizens they want to take your guns away and they want to install far-left judges to shred our constitution is not happening they want to tear down symbols of faith and drive Christians and religious believers from the public square they want to silence your voices on social media and they want the government to censor muzzle and shut down conservative voices you know that if they didn't hate our country they wouldn't be doing this to our country they wouldn't be doing it because they know better they know better as an example we're building a great wall along the southern border and it's going up rapidly going up and you know five years ago almost every one of them wanted a wall until I came along and I said we're gonna build a great wall cuz they could never get it done and then they stopped the funding they made it almost impossible few people would have been able to do what we did but we got it from here and we got it from there and we got it from all over the place and we're building that sucker right now and it's having a tremendous effect already not easy highest level everything we said it would be it's moving rapidly although the fake news back there they don't want to talk about  they don't want to talk about look at all those cameras you believe it look at all those red lights don't worry I won't say anything bad about your network because a lot of times I get ready to do a number of these phony networks and you know you see those red lights go wall fall fall fall they don't want their viewers to see it but that's okay I'm not gonna say it tonight I'm going to say your legitimate media I don't actually be there but you look at that but look at all those covers you know that's like the Academy Awards used to be be caught before it fell you know why it failed you know why it failed because they came after us that's why it fell it failed because they had stupid people saying horrible things about us stupid stupid people they are stupid people and their ratings have dropped like a rocket I love seeing it I'm telling you but no matter how hard they try they will fail because the people of Texas and the people of America will never surrender our freedom to those people right there we will stand strong for family faith God and for country last week a very dumb Democrat candidate for president that's the end of him in this state pledged to revoke the tax-exempt status of many churches and religious charities and by the way that was after a few weeks ago he said excuse me we're going to take your guns away that doesn't work well and I called him right remember the flailing arms nobody noticed it I noticed it the flail er you remember he was flailing all over the place I said why is this guy hot john cornyn is going to win so easily just like ted cruz one who's gonna win no matter what happens but john cornyn is not talking about bado anymore because Vado in a few short weeks got rid of guns and got rid of religion those are not two good things in Texas to get rid of and I will never allow the federal government to be used to punish Americans for their religious beliefs and I will never allow the IRS to be used as a political weapon except in the case of myself where they use it against me the radical left tolerates no dissent it permits no opposition it accepts no compromise these people are crazy and it has absolutely no respect for the will of the American people first it was the Russia hoax then it was this smeary which continues that disgraceful disgusting smearing of a fine man justice Cavanaugh  and now they continue the outrageous impeachment witch-hunt with nothing with nothing they come after me but what they're really doing is they're coming after the Republican Party and what they're really really doing is they're coming after and fighting you and we never lose I'm fighting for everyone who believes in the values traditions and principles that have made our nation the greatest in the history of the world and I have to say this we are far greater now than ever before you go back for years you go back seven six eight even you go back into another administration you go back ten and twelve years where were you compared to where you are right now so we must hold the Democrats accountable for their lies and their corruption they are corrupt people and we must show and vote and we have to go out and we have to win this election coming up it's going to be a landslide and we have to make it advance today's do nothing Democrats they don't do anything where's the us MCA everybody wants it the Democrats even wanted and crazy Nancy won't let anybody vote on it she's nuts today's Democrats believe anyone who opposes them must be crushed it's not just like let's win you know I have to say this the Republicans said I'm not sure I like this because my life hasn't been this way but the Republicans play a much softer game they really do when all of our stars that we have great stars when they went to our Speaker of the House at the time and they asked for subpoenas oh let's take it easy let's do okay I mean I get that too she hands them out like it's cookies here sip it I heard a commentator who happens to be standing right there the other day doesn't like us at all but but said I've never seen anyone hand out so many subpoenas I have people getting subpoenas I never heard of my said were those people never saw anything like it it's a disgrace what they're doing to our country and we became because of what they do not the Republicans and not what we've done because what they've done and what they see when people come to my office which is now the Oval Office which is your office too presidents prime ministers kings queens I hate to say it sometimes dictators they just don't like to go by that title they say sir congratulations sir and what you've done congratulations on what you've done it's incredible your economy is the greatest on earth and let me tell you if my crooked opponent would have won the election right now China would be by far the number one nation from an economic standpoint in the world we've gone up trillions of dollars they've gone down trillions of dollars and we are so far number one so far that they'll never catch us if we are smart right here but the do-nothing Democrats believe anyone who opposes them has to be crushed they don't one just beat them they don't want to just beat them these are sick people they want to crush these people the anger the hatred and that any lie or crime or corruption is justified so shift gets up and makes up my statement he makes it up a hundred percent and then he said he didn't speak to the whistleblower no we didn't see the whistleblower and what about the whistleblower the whistleblower got it all wrong who's the whistleblower who's the whistleblower who is the whistleblower we have to know is the whistleblower is spy and who is the IG that did this all he had to do is look at the tape or look at the what they wrote down the transcribed version of the phone call compare that to the whistleblowers account and you see it had nothing to do with it so why does the IG allow a thing like this to happen to our country why why get a lot of bad people out there but one by one we're advancing one by one just look at the terrible foreign corruption of the Biden's I hate to talk about him you know why I don't think the guys got a chance sleepy Joe I don't think he's got it I don't see it I don't know I've got these great brilliant senators over here I have all these congressmen over here fellas I don't think he has a chance I'd like him to I'd like him to you know I thought Pocahontas was gone left in embers you got to give her credit those embers they kept going going going now it looks like she's doing better but I don't think Joe has a chance but did you see the other night where CNN in a totally unsubstantiated statement the president said this about you who is so sorry he said that he said walked out with a billion and a half dollars from China these were not the same Chinese people I just dealt with I will tell you that but Joe Biden was in charge of Ukraine policy while his son with absolutely no energy experience just got thrown out of the Navy like a dog was paid massive sums of money by a Ukrainian energy company you know that's called it's called a pay off folks he didn't know energy at all do nothing about energy they hired him paying him massive amounts of money much more than the 50,000 a month you heard about that's a lot that's a lot but much more Joe Biden made them go out and fire the prosecutor on tape but they don't want to show the tape I had to put it up on a social media site they don't want to show the tape where he was bragging they're not going to get this money unless they get rid and boo they got rid of the prosecutor he was investigating the son and the sons company get rid of them now that's what you call quid pro quo while these charges are totally unsubstantiated these are the fake news errs out there and then Biden flew think of it he goes into a tough place we just made such a great deal with China I think just think of this my guy said if we could get 20 billion in agricultural product that would be good the most China ever did was 16 billion for our farmers okay we're just talking about the farmers we did banking we did everything but we're talking about them the most they ever did was 20 billion of product from our farmers or great farmers or patriot farmers or farmers that never left us even though they were being targeted by China they never left me so they wanted 20 and China agreed and I said nope no good I want 50 billion not 20 billion 50 so my guys say sir we have a problem sir our farmers cannot produce that much it's true I said tell them to go out and get bigger tractors right john deere case caterpillar all american only american tractors we only buy american to go out he get bigger so now china's agree to they've already started buying hopefully the agreement gets signed sometime prior to a big summit that we have with President Xi and others in Chile so that's in about four weeks but think of this they said sir they can't produce fifty billion dollars I said I want the farmers to tell me remember the story about winning we're gonna win so much we're going to the White House we're gonna tell the president sir we just can't stand winning the state of Texas John Cornyn and Ted Cruz they're gonna come into my office sir we just just can't stand this winning in Texas anymore it's too much we can't handle it well that's what I want from the farmers I want the farmers to say I want the farmers to say sir we just can't produce that much product we can't do it sir and I'm gonna say yes you can and they're gonna say no we can't I'm gonna say yes you can and they're gonna go out and they're gonna take in 50 billion from China as opposed to 20 that's what's gonna happen that's what's gonna happen but they were great they stuck with us through thick and thin now it's really working out for a lot of different groups and in the meantime we've taken in tens of billions of dollars of tariffs and China's eat and of course because they devalued their currency and they put money out tens of billions of dollars it's cost us nothing billions and billions and billions and you know what I did for the farmer during the lean times I gave them 16 billion last year and 12 billion the year before 28 billion dollars all together came out of the tariffs that I had a lot of money left over and nobody complained and you know our farmers didn't want that money our farmers didn't want a true story everybody comes from money countries come for everybody wants money right they all want our money the farmers said sir we don't want this money to subsidy we don't want it I said no it's not a substitute it unfairly they said no search the subsidy this is true I had 35 farmers in the Oval Office incredible people they didn't want it they said sir just give us a level playing field so now I gave them a field that's more than level it's level like this nice and easy nice and easy but the farmers I call him the great Patriots the farmers they I never lost them they always said you know yeah I'm in trouble I got a problem but this should have been done many many years ago by other precedents and other leaders and we lose for many years 500 billion dollars a year with China and many other countries who lose billions Willa's with everybody but that's all changing now but we lose 500 billion not million 500 millions a lot right we lose 500 billion and you know what it's a disgrace that that was allowed to go on for 25 years it was a disgrace disgrace but now we're taking in billions of dollars they've had the worst year they've had in 27 years and we're having the best year we've ever had so that's so Biden flew with Hunter on Air Force two they flew to China hunter walked out of the plane at a quick meeting walked away with one and a half billion dollars and these characters back there said oh that's okay there's no problem can you imagine if Don or Eric trump or Ivanka Trump who's here someplace right here and by the way our great first lady is home watching this she said this is the most exciting thing I've seen in a long time she's a great first lady doing a great job she's doing a great job we're doing a great job the whole country now is doing a great job so Biden takes a billion five and he goes on and allows China to rip us off remember he said a year ago we know China's good they've done nothing wrong they're wonderful people they are wonderful people I don't blame China by the way I blame our leaders for allowing this horrible unit Watt and pillage it's the r-word you know what and pillage you know what word I'm talking about right I don't want to use it because they'll say it's a horrible word that Trump use so the Biden's got rich while America got robbed tonight we forcefully condemned the blatant corruption of the Democrat Party and nobody ever pays the price with the Democrats is so deep-seated they never paid the price they never paid but maybe soon that will start you know we've had a lot of we've had a lot of Obama people and Clinton people and some to be honest with you we've had some pretty bad Republicans down deep that didn't exactly love us but slowly they're getting out they have all sorts of protections but so he says get rid of them yeah we're trying get rid of them but they're partnering the whole thing is to fake news media that's the problem  because the Democrats and the fake news media it's a partnership remember that and you see it all the time and I've never seen it to this extent you know when I won in the primaries and then I won the election I was treated horribly by the media horribly and then when I won the election we had the greatest night one of the highest-rated nights in the history of television all over the world and I won and I said oh the great thing I said to Ivanka I said to the first lady I said to anybody that would listen I said listen this is so great finally finally we all of us were going to be respected by the media and you know what happened they got worse that worse now than they ever have been they're crooked as hell they're worse now than they've ever been they're crooked  the only message these radicals and they are radical lefties will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd 2020 save that with your help we will win back the house we will keep the Senate and we will keep the White House in numbers like they haven't seen in a long long time joining us tonight are many terrific Republican leaders and they are terrific and frankly if they're not I'm not gonna introduce I'm okay but we have some great leaders and you have great leaders in Texas great and they love Texas so a friend of mine a guy that a lot of people word socio we have this unbelievable relationship in fact when Ted Cruz held a rally in Washington he said could you come to my rally and everybody thought these people thought that was strange they said to me well when is the fighting between these two cos we really like each other when does the fighting gonna start right Ted they said when was the fighting gonna start and I said don't worry it'll start and when it does it's going to be vicious and it was vicious and now we love each other again he's great Ted Cruz and he had a great victory against a man that spent almost a hundred million dollars it's a lot of money spent almost a hundred million but there was a great victory thank you to another man who's currently running against somebody I kept thinking maybe bado will jump in because he's at zero right now we hope he's gonna jump in remember no religion and no guns I think that's not good oh and I think he's like pretty light on oil production too but a man and John I have no idea who you're running against but nobody's going to be able to beat John Cornyn he's a good man a good man thank you John and we have a lot of Congress people here we have a woman who's fantastic who's been a fan of ours right from the beginning kay Granger Thank You kay we have a man who's smart as hell and he is tough and he is mean and nasty but he loves his state and he's only mean and nasty because he wants to defend you and me and all of the horrible things that we all go through louie gohmert Louie he's a great guy but a great friend of mine I'll tell you once once we got him on board we he wouldn't leave us no matter what and he had Muller and everybody figured out long before anybody else had it figured out right Louie a person who's been an incredible ally again loves your state Randy Weber Thank You Randy great job thank you one of the best lawyers you'll ever find he slick he's smooth but boy he's loyal he's talented and he's got him all buffaloed because they're not as good as him Jon Ratliff a man I saw on television last night defending me brilliantly defending me I actually don't like doing this usually but I tweeted out I said thank you very much Brian babban that was a great defense I appreciate it thank you Brian I was great last night see I put a tweet out because it's easier than making a phone call and talking for a half-hour thanks Brian I just said thanks and you know what he'd rather have that to actually wear and Lance Gooden special person Lance good thank you Lance Thank You Lance and Lance was one of 60 people that stuck in there he was unbelievable and Ron right thank you Ron great job great job these are great people these are great people along with Republican Party chairs and all of these total winners his one Ronna mcdaniel I'll tell you what you know Rana was the head of Michigan Michigan hadn't been won by a Republican for decades and it was stuff they all said you couldn't win Michigan I said why we're getting these massive crowds why and she was in charge of Michigan and I said I want you to do me a favor find out who this woman is she's driving me crazy she calls me just one more trip sir one more trip who is she who is she and it was Rana and we won the state of Michigan we won and when it came time when it came time to pick in somebody to head the RNC Republican National Committee I said what about that woman that drove me crazy from Michigan and it was Rana and she's done a fantastic job thank you thank you Robert thank you she's fantastic and a great governor from your state he's a great great man and a friend of mom and together with your lieutenant governor Dan Patrick when you add a hurricane two years ago now they still keep calling me for money sir could you give us another when the governor called up Dan was there you know thank you for being so generous to Texas sir the hurricane it was a big one it was a bed with a lot of water dump I think the biggest dump of what remember kept going in and out in and out our Coast Guard saved 16,000 lives but it kept going in and out water water and finally I get a call I paid billions and billions of dollars to the state like numbers my people are driving me crazy I get a call from the governor and Dan is there where's Dan is he here wisdeth dan dan Patrick and the two of them called me and then I had Ted Cruz on my back and had John Cornyn on my back and I had the congressman call again who was brutal it wasn't even fair and they said sure thank you for being so generous on the hurricane they made a fortune you made a fortune on the hurricane thank you for being so generous sir so we want one more small request just too small it's not much and we appreciate your listening to us we want to build a dam in the ocean so that if we ever have another hurricane sir the water won't be able to come in to use it in all of the areas that it came in - sir do you think we could do it I said how much it's only ten billion dollars ten billion right that right ten billion they wanted Ted and it you know the way they sell it and it's so good their sales for their incredible salesmen they say it's only ten billion I'm supposed to be happy oh let's see could we give Texas an extra ten billion for some some crazy thing that may work and it may not right now they're great people they love you stay RNC co-chairman Tommy Hicks a real friend of ours Thank You Tommy and our great campaign manager most sophisticated man with a computer you've ever seen and remember they used to say with Hillary her campaign is so sophisticated then after she lost they said Trump's campaign were so sophisticated and remember she spent like six times more of this stuff than we did you know the old days my father taught me if you can spend less that's a good thing not a bad thing right my father said if you can spend less so we spent much less than Hillary crooked Hillary crooked where are those emails Hillary they may find those 33,000 emails they're looking they may find those deleted emails they may find them remember the emails at 33,000 emails covering her Jim and her daughter's wedding 33,000 that's a lot of emails for a wedding and working out but Brad parse Kel did a great job thank you Brett thank you thank you for and Secretary of Commerce one of the legends of Wall Street he was really like amazing and he is doing an incredible job Wilbur Ross Thank You Wellborn smart guy and a friend of mine he's another one he was so tough he was nasty man boy he hit me during their campaign and I said that guy is ruthless and when it was sort of over there was nobody more gracious and I called him I made him Secretary of Energy he's done a phenomenal job and Rick Perry couldn't have done a better job through and he's going to be leaving at the end of the year and probably coming back here whatever he does it's going to be successful but he spent three years with us I don't want to thank you Rick what a job you have done thank you a lot of job he's done he was also a great governor of Texas that you know in everything we do we're fighting for the faithful citizens of this country this includes putting a stop to the catastrophic era of endless wars endless wars they don't stop they don't stop they go on forever we become policemen we end up becoming police we're policing these countries that's not what it's about we've spent eight trillion dollars in the Middle East thousands of American soldiers have lost their lives tens of thousands more have been severely wounded and in all fairness the other side has lost millions of people millions millions of people think of it these wars brought mass chaos instability destruction and death today we choose a different path we had tremendous success today I don't know if you've seen look we built in the last three years we built the strongest military by far when I and I told the story I was embarrassed to tell it but now I'll tell when I first got in a general told me we could have had a conflict with someone said sir we don't have ammunition and I said I never want to hear a president I just never want to hear somebody have that statement made to them again as president of the United States we don't have ammunition think of how bad now we have so much ammunition we don't know what to do with it and as you all know I guess you've been watching today I sent vice-president pence and Secretary of State Pompeo to lead an American delegation to meet with President Erdogan of Turkey they got there today and it did work without spilling a drop of American blood not one drop of American blood we've all agreed on a pause or a ceasefire in the border region of Syria and it was unconventional what I did I said they're gonna have to fight a little while sometimes you have to let him fight a little while then people find out how tough the fighting is these guys know right up here these guys go right sometimes you have to let him fight it's like two kids it a lot you gotta let him fight and then you pull him apart but it was unconventional but they fought for a few days and it was pretty vicious and the Kurds who are friends and took he's our friend but they fought it was tougher I mean it was nasty and you couldn't make a deal for 15 think of it for 15 years 20 years they couldn't make a deal the Kurds didn't want to move turkey didn't want to budge and Turkey was having a lot of bad things happen from this region and all fairness to Turkey they were having a lot of bad but they didn't want now all of a sudden they fight then it's not fun having bullets going all over the place and we went there and we said we want to pause and the Kurds have been terrific they're going to move back a little bit we're going to keep Isis all nice and locked up okay we're gonna find more and turkeys all set and President Erdogan was great and we're going to take the worst sanctions and tariffs and everything that I put on the country we put the worst the war I mean I don't think they could have economically survived but that doesn't matter president Erdogan was a gentleman he understood it but without a little tough love you know what tough love is right without a little tough love they would have never made this deal President Obama lost a million people in the area a million people a million people so now we're doing during a five-day period we're gonna see if we can get it all finalized and I think it will be I think it will be so turkeys going to be happy the Kurds are going to be happy Isis is going to be unhappy we'll deal with whoever we have to deal with but we'll get it done and it's a great tribute to a lot of very talented people and thank you to vice president pence and thank you to Mike Pompeo good job good job and they're traveling back to our country by night traveling back and they'll be back soon and we'll have a big conference on it but it was a terrific thing and we've taken care of a lot of religious persecution we ended that in a lot of things are in that agreement that nobody ever thought possible so we have to fundamentally change our approach to homeland security as an example in that example nobody would have ever done that you have to be a little bit different to do it that way I took a lot of heat even from some of our congressmen even from some of our senators but now they're all happy and I'm happy with them I'm happy with them  now I don't know what about the Democrats the Democrats will say oh what a terrible anything we do the Democrats were criticized if I said like on the China deal we get Beijing for $1 they would say what a terrible deal it just doesn't work with them you know the wall we spent so much time with them on the wall and I realized about two weeks ago all I had to do was say we will never build the wall and they would have come through and they said we demand that you build it it would have been so much easier right would have been so much easier Ted would have been so much ease American combat troops should not be at the center of ancient sectarian conflicts all over the world bring our soldiers back home bring our soldiers back home the same people pushing us to fight endless wars overseas want us to open up orders to mass migration from these war-torn and Terra afflicted regions their policies would import terrorism right onto our shores with American issued visas oh isn't that wonderful and by the way th"
"  Wow yeah the big place thank you very much and thank you to vice president Mike Pence he's doing a fantastic job and thank you to the great state of Florida thank you so less than one year from now I will join voters across the Sunshine State my home as we head to the polls and together we will win back the house we will hold the Senate and we will keep that beautiful beautiful white house we will keep it you know we just said another sock rocket if you saw that right the stock market just hit another all time in history high meaning 401ks and jobs everybody's getting rich and I'm working my ass off that deck before you leave the arena make sure that you register to vote we can't take any chances we're doing great in Florida as you know you have a great governor we're very happy with Ronnie's doing a fantastic job but make sure you register to vote as we gather together for Thanksgiving you know some people want to change the name Thanksgiving they don't want to use the term Thanksgiving and that was true also with Christmas but now everybody's using Christmas again remember I said that but now we're gonna have to do a little work on Thanksgiving people have different ideas why it shouldn't be called Thanksgiving but everybody in this room I know loves the name Thanksgiving and we're not changing it but Americans have so much to be thankful for the economy is booming wages are rising crime is falling poverty is plummeting confidence is soaring and America is stronger than ever before  we've created 6.7 million new jobs including 600,000 jobs right here in the great state of Florida we're protecting American workers taking care of our amazing veterans by the way you know the veterans for years and years and years I was like you I was a civilian I loved my life my life was so much simpler it was so nice and soft and easy you build a building and you have fun but I'd always see you turn on the news you read in the paper about our veterans being mistreated they were doing such a poor job you don't hear that anymore do you you don't hear it anymore our veterans for the first time are taken care of to a level that has never happened in our country before and maybe most importantly right now if the world the way it is we are rebuilding the awesome power of the United States military 2.5 trillion dollars and everything is made right here in the USA that's good we make the greatest equipment in the world and a few weeks ago US Special Forces brought the world's number-one terrorists to justice the bloodthirsty savage known as al-baghdadi is dead finally  and just this week I stuck up for three great warriors against the deep state and you know what I'm talking about I had so many people say sir I don't think you should do that people have to be able to fight these are great warriors they can't think gee whiz if I make a mistake do I go for I mean you know what they were doing they wanted to put him in jail for 25 years one young man was in jail for seven years he had 16 more years to go and I want to tell you when you look at what they did to that man you would have been very proud at what we ended up doing he came out he hugged his parents it was a beautiful thing we gave them apart because we're going to take care of our warriors and I will always stick up for our great fighters people can sit there and air-conditioned offices and complained but you know what doesn't matter to me whatsoever they're out of that field and they're doing a job for us like nobody else anywhere in the world can do and the fact is America is winning again and America is respected again  but while we're creating jobs and killing terrorists and taking care of our borders it's really setting records now you see what's going on and the wall is happening it's getting built rapidly and that's a real wall the radical left Democrats are trying to rip our nation apart first it was the Russia hoax total hoax it was a failed overthrow attempt and the biggest fraud in the history of our country and then you look the Muller deal you remember that mess  they had nothing two years they spent forty five million dollars and the real courses many times that number and now the same maniacs are pushing the deranged impeaching think of this impeachment impeachment a witch-hunt the same as before and they're pushing that impeachment witch-hunt and a lot of bad things are happening to them because you see what's happening in the pulse everybody said that's really bullshit everybody  now the fake news back there  they're gonna say the president came they will never talk about the crowd you know one of the Democrats yesterday had a rally two people showed up to two people they give us no credit if somebody has a rally like a thousand people they'll say so-and-so had a rally it was packed they had a thousand people if we have a rally with 50,000 people they don't talk about it  and I don't know much about this stadium but I can tell you it's big and you go outside and there are a lot of people outside they can't get in but the lies of the Democrats are being exposed their schemes are unraveling their crimes and that's what it is crimes did you ever hear this guy corrupt politician shift he made up my statement to the Ukrainian president he made it up these are crooked people but their crimes are being revealed and their citizenship lands are failing at a level that nobody thought even me possible the Radical Democrats are trying to overturn the last election because they know that they cannot win the next election is very simple you know when I started this  you know when I started this I said we're gonna do this we're gonna do that we're gonna do that it didn't mean anything you know it's just like another guy trying to get elected you know they're all trying so hard but it's tough it's not easy it's not you know when a guy goes out and they want to get people nobody shows it's true it's not easy but when I started this no no they have it it's that's normal this is not normal do you think this is normal can I be honest in front of those fakers back there some of the most corrupt people in the world  I will tell you in front of these guys and they're fake and they're corrupt but I will tell you this in front of the media let me just say this has never happened before we go out we never have an empty seat and all I say is let's go to Florida just get me the biggest to read it doesn't matter where let's go to Wisconsin let's go to Michigan let's go to Pennsylvania North Carolina South Carolina let's go anywhere Michigan and all I say is it doesn't matter just get me the biggest Arena and we get these massive arenas like this one and they're packed and we put big screens outside so people can see and it happens because there's something happening in our country like has never ever been seen before in the twisted world view of the Washington very sick Democrats it was totally fine when crooked Hillary Clinton ran her outrages pay-for-play schemes out of the State Department and then she deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a subpoena from Congress that was standard play but when I have a perfect phonecall I use that it's a perfect call it was a perfect there was a woman today being interviewed they were talking to women who voted for Trump and they were trying to find no now they were trying to find it's one of those crazy networks you know the ones I'm talking about and they couldn't find the right door so they got these ten women and they were all for Trump but they wanted to say I voted for Trump but I won't do it again they all said they said so who's voting for Trump ten hands blah right no no it's incredible what's happening it's incredible they actually said and I shouldn't say this because they'll bring it up but we have the greatest base in the history of politics that's my opinion okay you're the smartest they don't like to say that about hey I went to great colleges you went to great schools and colleges you people are successful as hell they like to try and demean always by the world this and that let me tell you we're winning you're smarter you better look in your shopper and they call themselves a leaf but if they're elite then we're the super elite  they talk about these people that are elite that you know that are running I mean have you been watching these debates what's elite about that guy what's elite there's nothing elite but we're doing great we're gonna have a tremendous victory but when I have a perfect call think of it 33 what they get away with and don't forget I came to Washington having been there for very very few times in my life so I say look at this and I'm riding down Pennsylvania Avenue and I passed a hotel that I built beautiful and I said to the first lady who's doing a fantastic job  so I think I might have been in Washington 17 times in my life and I'm riding down and I look at the first lady and I say Melania do you believe it I'm president look  and I I never saw so many motorcycles and I never saw so many police cars and we're going so fast in the opposite direction it's not supposed to go that way and I'm saying this is cool we could get used to this okay but I was thinking to myself when I said that I said look so I get elected and I beat the bush dynasty okay I get elected and I beat and again with no experience I didn't have experience I have tremendous world experience but I didn't have political experience so I get elected and we beat the Clinton dynasty right and then we beat Barack Hussein Obama and whatever the hell dynasty that is so we have 24 years of people putting people in office so we have tens of thousands of people and some of very nice but I get stuck with a lot of people that I don't want tens of thousands and I'll tell you we're getting it right we have a great cabinet we're doing things that no president has ever done before and you've got to be very very happy you've got to be very because we have done more already and hopefully we have I'll say this to drive them crazy hopefully we have at least another five years to go at least because you know they think you know he's not leaving don't you he's not leaving now we have five years than we're going to make it a great five years but you know what we have done really we have done much more than I promised if you look at the tax cuts if you look at the military if you look at the VA if you look at right to try right to try how good is that right to try things that for years and years and years they've been trying to get past but when I have a perfect phone call with all of the horrible things that they've done with the president of Ukraine they tried to claim that it's an impeachable offense and one of the women said this morning excuse me I'm voting for Trump I happened to read the transcript of his phone call and he did absolutely nothing wrong and I'm voting can you imagine they take this perfect call and they want to impeach your president and you know what here's the good news we have more support in the Republican Party Kevin McCarthy met us I'm going to introduce a couple of Jim Jordan great champion wrestler he got a couple of them here I'm going to save them Steve Scalise who's been incredible so many at least how's the lease doing right new star no no it's incredible Devin newness how good has he been Devin and so many more I don't want to get into it but I tell you what a lot of stars are being made and I was just told backstage our poll numbers are through the roof because people don't like watching a scam they don't like watching it they don't like watch it they've got a sick puppy shifty chef he's sick if they don't like seeing what's happened and a lot of Democrats are saying one of them was in a today in Detroit I believe and she's like in addy Democrat 30 that means but in other words that's not one that we're gonna work too hard to get but you never know what happens right and she came out and said essentially hey I'm not here to impeach the precedent but what they're really saying is they don't like the position they're in and they're gonna like it less and less and we're gonna take it right up to November 3rd 2020 we're gonna take back the house we're gonna take it back so the president of Ukraine declared that there was no pressure put on me now he's the only one that matters there was no pressure he said it all different ways there was no pressure they don't even know what they're talking about it's a scam it's a hoax the Ukrainian foreign minister stated and I quote ambassador Sandland did not tell us and certainly did not tell me about a connection between the assistance and the investigations ever told him I have never had a direct link between investigations and security assistance okay what that means you know what it means it means we did zero we did nothing wrong nothing we did nothing wrong a great senator from Wisconsin Ron Johnson a supporter of us from day one is a great guy of Ukraine he said who met privately with and he met with President Solinsky and he said at no time during that meeting was there any mention by the president you well you know what I'm talking about right at no time was there any mention or anything that we're feeling that they were feeling any pressure in return for military aid it's the craziest thing they took this look here's what happened they were devastated by what happened with this Muller witch-hunt deal and then Muller testified how did he do what he testified how did he do was it too good but they were devastated they say this is a disaster now they say give us anything will impeach him let him go to the refrigerator in Pickett Orange we're going to from Florida yet pick an orange from Florida we're going to impeach him well a peachy but during the time period at issue the US government officials held many meetings with Ukraine and never once never did Ukraine or the officials say anything that was wrong then all of a sudden I'm hearing about a phone call and then fortunately they had transcribers hey how about if I didn't trip with these low-lives that talk how about if we didn't have it transcribed so all I'm saying I don't want to go on it too long but all I'm saying is that it's a terrible hoax last week sderling testified that I told him quote what do you want from Ukraine I said I want nothing there's a quote I want no quid pro quo I want nothing tell President szalinski to do the right thing to do what he ran on that's what he said okay and everybody knows everybody there's a lot of people heard shifty make up a story where he actually made up what I said but these are the facts the case closed game over turn off the television as soon as he said that it was like turn off the television so we're going to keep going I've had Republicans come up to me sir can we keep this sucker going a little bit longer we've never seen anything like it with the polls I said let's get it over with but you know what we're stuck with dealing with very very sick and corrupt people that's what it is the failed Washington establishment is trying to stop me because I'm fighting for you and because we're winning it's very simple they're attacking me because I'm exposing a rigged system that enriched itself at your expense and I'm restoring government of by and for the people  and if you want to see what corruption looks like then take a look no further then slow sleepy Joe I don't know what's going on with young when sleepy Joe was in charge of Ukraine policy his son I call him where is he where's hunter what happened doctor where's hunter his son received millions and millions of dollars from a Ukrainian energy company without a great read you know the reputation of that company despite knowing absolutely nothing about energy what business are you in sir the mailbox Oh bail bond oh that's us  you know hunter Biden you know sleepy Joe bail by so did you ever work on energy before you know more about energy he said now then hunter you know much more and despite being thrown out of the Navy for lots of different reasons we won't even go into it he made no money zero nothing and then all of a sudden his father becomes vice-president and he's making millions and millions and then he goes to China where by the way we're getting very close to a very good deal and we don't make it that's fine but we're getting very close obviously hunter is dealing with different people that I'm dealing with in China because after ten minutes he walked away first fund with 1.5 billion dollars I will tell you I said to everybody these are different people that I'm dealing with in China they got much softer that was when his father was vice president and now they're finding other countries likewise I will tell you something the fake news does it want to bring it up they protect everybody the Democrats the Democrats on stage don't bring it up you notice they never bring it up but if he should make it it'll be brought up for about 75% of the time that with debating because nobody ever got away with a scam like that alright nobody but day after day we're exposing the depravity dishonesty and sickness of the corrupt Washington establishment and let me tell you they're rough they're dirty players they come at you from every side they're coming at me from New York they're coming at me from New Jersey they're coming to me from every Democratic state like nobody's ever seen Rush Limbaugh said and Sean Hannity that he doesn't know a man or woman in the world that could take the crap that President Trump is taking and I understand that I understand and at the same time be a great president because nobody in the first three years of a presidency has done what we've done nobody nobody that's very important but with your help we're going to complete the mission and we are draining the swamp indeed on Election Day 2020 the crazy Democrats are going down in a landslide and that landslide is going to start right here in the great state of Florida  thank you so here's something that you just read about right we like these updated stores only don't we like like something that happened a few days ago we talked who else does this most people they took in they read than the earth everybody falls asleep nobody comes they say darling how was he about somebody else hopefully oh he was so boring it was so boring and you know I always say being presidential is so easy ladies and gentlemen  but it's so easy doing what I do is tough not tough for me cuz I sorta like it you gotta like it if you don't love what you're doing forget it it's not gonna work but I do I do like it and what we're doing together has never been done before never been done but I like telling these like stories that happened a little while ago they don't have to put them in speeches and you read stuff and people fall asleep but on Saturday you saw what happened the White House physician called me and said sir you're home today if I wanted meaning me I could do some of the physical you know in January we go for the physical I never took physicals before doubt every year supposed to think a physical but it's important it's good right it's good because January is a very busy month for you sir I said you're right so what do you want to do I said okay let's go so we went to Walter Reed Medical Center fantastic place incredible dog and I was there for just a short while I visited a family of a soldier being operated on incredible family as his son was in serious condition and I stayed with them for a little while I toured the hospital he took a little part of me physical so I don't have to take it in January very simple and I got back into the motorcade the car where we have many many cars and trucks and ambulances unfortunately and lots of different things right we also have like a bus or whatever the hell carries these crazy people and the press follows me wherever I go unfortunately you know the old days I could sneak out and go someplace today these people are crazy so so the press is everybody's there we start it's like a beautiful thing if you like lots of cars and lots of action but the press is following me so I hadn't even gotten back to the White House and that stupid corrupt horrible CNN  whose ratings are terrible by the way and others and others and others whose rating by the way CNN's ratings are terrible oops look their light just went off the light just went off I shouldn't do it I shouldn't do it cuz we lose a small audience when that happened no but they reported so Here I am  so I'm there for a very routine little simple physical and by the way if there's something wrong I gotta tell you I want to tell you about it because it's very big stuff but I was there just to save a little time in genui feel great hey let me tell you if I didn't feel great I wouldn't be ranting and raving - twenty-one twenty-two thousand people with lots of people outside I could judge you so I get back in and now it's a short drive we arrive at the White House and I heard that they said it came out in the media including some of the very very dishonest people that are here tonight look at that it's like the Academy Awards used to be used to be you know the Academy Awards was big until they started hitting us now they've gone down the tubes but it's like the Academy Awards used to be look at all those lights back there but I'm getting it in the car and somebody said sir you okay I said yeah what's that all about I go a few feet further in another security sir sir you okay sure I said yeah I'm fine what's what's going nobody's ever asked me that you know normally I walk these are the greatest peoples the military the Secret Service is the greatest  but they don't ever say sir you okay and I could see he was like troubled he likes me you know did I walk another few feet sir I hope you're okay sir I said what the hell's going on and then they said I had a massive heart attack nothing to joke about but they said I had a massive heart attack I had a heart attack and it wasn't true they knew it wasn't true they were with me if you've had a heart attack you don't leave the hospital shortly after you get there you stay in the hospital for a little while like about six weeks baby so we had the people call doesn't mean anything because they're totally corrupt people and they said it's untrue so they brought it down from a massive unbelievable heart attack you know it's very dangerous for them to do because the world believe it or not the rest of the world then the leaders like and respect your president we don't want to hear this and I like that it's very sad so that instead they brought it down a notch they said he went into the hospital and it's true I did worth time why would I wear tie if the first thing they do is say take off your shirt sir and show us that gorgeous chest so are we want a suit we've never seen her chest quite like it now but seriously why would I put on I mean I put the tie on and then were there in 20 minutes I take it off for the physical but they said he wasn't wearing your tie which is pretty unusual for me honestly I should have worn the tie maybe it's not their fault but he never apologized but they said he wasn't wearing a tie this is a sign of a massive heart attack but we called up and our people did a good job screaming he's fine there was nothing happened they didn't believe it they brought it down to tremendous chest pains he had chest pains one of them said they were tremendous or tremendous the only one that didn't know it was me I'm the only one and then they said like a little bit later he's staying over in the hospital but they knew I came back they were with me they were with me they saw me get into the car they saw us leave and they said I stayed at the great Walter Reed Hospital so we said no the chest pains aren't true but they kept on reporting it we couldn't get them to stop because they're corrupt crooked and we don't have freedom of the press we have a very dishonest we have a very dishonest  so then on Monday I flew to Texas the great state of Texas and I opened up an Apple computer plant they make the new beautiful Mac whatever I met with Tim Cook and did lots of work and it's a long flight and I got back many hours later it wasn't late at night and I said you know what I just said her record because yesterday or the day before they said I had a massive heart attack and now a day later I'm traveling to Texas to open up this big plant I don't know not too many people have ever done that one before so I just want to tell you that so much as an example we had a great two weeks watching these crooked politicians not giving us due process not giving us lawyers not giving us the right to speak and destroying their witnesses it fell apart those were their witnesses we weren't allowed any rights we had for the first time in the history of our country we had virtually no rights to due process and despite that we won but if you read the crooked New York Times if you read The Washington Post which is just a horrible paper you know we don't have it anywhere in DC anymore we don't deliver it we don't give it we used to buy it we don't do it and in fact I ended it in the nation because I want them to get correct news not fake this but they're bad people so what happens what happens is we go out we win for the people we keep winning we won these last two weeks so solidly but if you pick up the New York Times if you pick up this crazy Washington Post you would have no idea we won but you know do it the people knew it and that's why and that's why they don't want to have they don't want to see it go on it probably will because the people are nuts and nuts and I really think probably it's a good thing for us as a party because I think it's going to just walk us right through that election which is going to take place already interested in it so we're thrilled to be joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders and I want to just have them run up on the stage but they're stars and they're warriors just like those three guys we helped out these are warriors in a different way but they're up there and they're fighting for your president and they're fighting for your country and they love the state of Florida congressman Matt Gaetz come on up back a man I just watched last night on television he was fantastic congressman Michael walls come on up bike get up here Billy Posey a great guy and a great fighter Billy come up Gus Bilirakis guys come on up guys and a man who is an incredibly brave guy a friend of mine somebody that's done a fantastic job loves his state Brian mastre Brian  I wanted to this attorney general and a friend of all of ours who ran a great campaign won easily despite a lot of crooked stuff going on with those voting machines folks a lot of bad stuff going on with us voting machines Attorney General Ashley moody come on up Ashley and by the way a friend of mine a great woman a great person former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi come up here got my pal Florida CFO Jimmy Patronus Jimmy come up and lieutenant governor and somebody that really has become a star in this state Jeanette Nunez come up tuna credible people and somebody that's one of the most popular governors anywhere in the country and yeah - he better not be more popular in Florida than me I'm never gonna go but I'd sued so here's a quick story wait well here's a clue here's a phoo but is a quick story I shouldn't say cuz you know I don't want to say this but what bail right so you know Ron's been a friend of mine for a long time he was a congressman did an incredible job always protecting me from the Russia which hunted Bjorn with these guys with Mad and everybody he'd be on there and I always thought Ron was a little heavy I thought he was a little overweight that's okay we all have our problems didn't matter but people liked him he ran an incredible race remember I was an incredible race and then he ran against the Democrat who was supposed to be unbeatable he got beaten badly and and now this is one of the most popular governors but I always thought Ron was a little bit heavy and then one day I'm with him and I pat him on the shoulder and I go whoa that's strong that's a lot of muscle there my hand didn't sink in like it does with a lot of people and did I see him without his shirt one day and this guy is strong and he's not fat that's all power that's all muscle I want to tell you that and I said Ron you'll wonder the whew I say it too don't walk around with a jacket all the time take it off people are gonna see the real rod but he's a great guy he's a tough guy he's a brilliant guy and he's our governor and I'm very proud when we got involved with Ron a lot of people were saying do you think he can make it I said he's gonna make it because he's a champ is a winner and I want you to say a few words Ron thank you thank you great to be with you all and let me just say mr. president given your change of registration welcome home to Florida and why not come to Florida we have one of the lowest tax burdens of any state in the country you see some of these states that are going bankrupt we have over a five billion dollars in reserves with our budget and I see some of these cities and states with lawlessness when I came into office I was proud to sign a bill banning sanctuary cities in the state of Florida  with your support we are in the process of eliminating common core and as soon as I came into office I was able to replace on our state Supreme Court three liberal justices with three conservative constitutionally and I got to thank the president for his support of Florida I mean I'm you know kind of excited that he's here about tell you I'm really excited to have Melania as a Florida resident  I think in Florida were lucky to have my beautiful wife to be I think the best first lady of all the 50 states I'm just saying but now not only do we have Casey who does a great job but we also have Milani as a Florida resident so we're really lucky in that regard in Florida but let me tell you about the president when we had a hurricane hit Northwest Florida a lot of people had forgotten about that those folks were really really in dire straits I went up to the Oval Office and even though a lot of people told them don't do anything just let it go he was right there standing behind the people in Northwest Florida he has helped rejuvenate that area he saved Tyndall Air Force Base it's going to come back bigger than ever very important for our military when we were trying to get Floridians access to cheaper prescription drugs we had an avenue to let people buy them in Canada because it's about a third of the price a lot of times and everyone said no you can't do it you can't do it I went up and met with the president he said no no we're doing it and so they're in the process of putting that through right now  president Trump has stood with our communities in South Florida Cuban Americans Venezuelan American to stand for freedom in this hemisphere and stand against the dictatorships in places like Caracas and Havana and the president has stood where one of the most military and veteran friendly states in the country he has stood by our veterans and he has stood by our military and so our success in Florida obviously we've got a lot of great people in this state but we have a president who not only understands Florida he supports what we're doing here I gotta bug him now about maybe locating the Space Command in Florida at some point I know the Air Force doesn't want it but you know he makes his own decisions as we've seen so so Thank You mr. president for being a good friend to Florida and god bless you god bless Florida and god bless the United States of America thank you  great people and I'll say thanks to Republican policies we have the hottest economy anywhere in the world that it's not even close unemployment has reached its lowest level in more than 51 years in the last 12 months Florida has seen the second largest payroll increase of any state in the nation people of making money african-american unemployment has again just reached its lowest rate ever recorded in the history of our country  Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment have also recently achieved their"
" thank you thank you  all I can say is that the fake news just doesn't get it do they they just don't get it hello Charleston and I'm thrilled to be back in the great state of South Carolina with thousands of hardworking American patrons who believed in faith family God and country thank you it's a phenomenal crowd only topped by the number of people outside that didn't get if anybody would like to give up where you're standing or your seat please raise your hand now let's begin right thank you all very much oh this is great no they don't get it you know down the road they have a rally for to the people that are going to be running tomorrow they're trying to get to a hundred but they're not gonna make it so I think they're gonna set up a round table you know that's what they do they said so people want to go to a rally they end up sitting at a round table talking about the definition of impeachment crazy crazy it's a crazy deal no the to fake news media they've been trying to figure this out for years they still don't get it though they don't get it look at all of those cameras look at all of those guys that's a lot of cameras that's a lot of cameras Lindsay and Tim that's a lot of kid they heard you guys were here they heard Tim was here and that Lindsay was here and then and they said we're not going to attend that rally but you know when we heard those two guys plus our great congressman okay here great congressman but this is an incredible time for our nation we're thrilled to be in the midst of what we call the great American comeback in this one jobs a booming income Sasori factories are returning poverty is plummeting confidence is surging and we have completely rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military our country is stronger than ever before we are stronger we are better but while we're building a great future the radical left Democrats in Washington are trying to burn it all down they have spent the last three years and I could even go further than that three years since the election but we go before the election working to erase your ballots and overthrow our democracy but with your help we have exposed the far left corruption and defeated their sinister schemes and let's see what happens in the coming months let's watch very dishonest people now the Democrats are politicizing the coronavirus you know that  they are politicizing it we did one of the great jobs you say how's president Trump doing they go oh not good they have no clue they don't have any clue they can't even count their votes in Iowa they can't even they can't count their votes one of my people came up to me and said mr. president they tried to beat you on Russia Russia Russia that didn't work out too well they couldn't do it they tried the impeachment hoax that was on a perfect conversation they tried anything they tried it over and over they've been doing it since she got in it's all turning they lost it's all turning think of it think of it and this is their new hoax but you know we did something that's been pretty amazing we're 15 people in this massive country and because of the fact that we went early we went early we could have had a lot more than that we're doing great our country is doing so great we are so unified the Republican Party has never ever been unified like it is now there has never been a movement in the history of our country like we have now never been a movie so a statistic that we want to talk about go ahead say USA it's okay us  so a number that nobody heard of that I heard of recently and I was shocked to hear 35,000 people or an average die each year from the flu did anyone know that 35,000 that's a lot of people it could go to a hundred thousand it could be 27,000 they say usually a minimum of 27 goes up to a hundred thousand people a year die and so far we have lost nobody to coronavirus in the United States no bother and it doesn't mean we won't and we are totally prepared it doesn't mean we won't but think of it you hear thirty five and forty thousand people and we've lost nobody and you wonder the press is in hysteria mode CNN fake news and the camera just went off  the camera just went off turn it back on hey by the way hold it look look at this and honestly all events are like this it's about us it's all about us I wish they'd take the camera show the arena please show them if they never they never do  they never show the arena you can hear it because when you hear it that's not 200 people that set a hundred people that's thousands and thousands of people including people they always show my face see that face they show my face I wanted to show the arena not my face right how many have you been to how many rallies have you good practically everyone can you believe it I'm sure your husband's are thrilled right they're thrilled where are you going tonight I'm going to another Trump rally number 114 what do your husband say about that this group of big she said we don't care thank you thank you Democrats will only say horrible things even though they know we're doing a great job we do it a great job with what we have to work with it you've gotta for the Democrats want us to fail so badly even if their actions and you take a look hurt the people of this country they'll hurt the people themselves their wealth their everything they're willing to hurt our country in order to say bad even if they know it's not so we made an unbelievable deal with Mexico with Canada with China with South Korea with Japan and if you put a microphone that these people back there like the Academy Awards used to be done anymore best best movie of the year it's made in South Korea what's that all about festival I'm waiting to see the best movie of the year and it's made he sent his garbage only in South Carolina can you say Oh you're gonna get us in trouble now I'm just repeating what he said for the fake snooze I'm just now but seriously you know the Academy Awards has gone way way down in ratings you know why because they started attacking us and we don't believe in it anymore that's now but they had the best movie of the year made in South Korea they make enough stuff for us right and they're good they're our friends take advantage of us that's okay not so much anymore we are mek differently we are really you take a look magnificently organized with the best professionals in the world we're prepared for the absolute worst you have to be prepared for the worst but hopefully it will all amount to very little that's why I tell you when we have the flu at 35,000 people and this one is we have to take it very very seriously that's what we're doing we are preparing for the worst my administration has taken the most aggressive action in modern history to prevent the spread of this illness in the United States we are ready we are ready  On January 31st I ordered the suspension of foreign nationals who have recently been in China from entering the United States an action which the Democrats loudly criticized and protested and now everybody's complimenting me saying thank you very much you were a hundred percent correct could have been a whole different story but I say so let's get this right a virus starts in China bleeds its way into various countries all around the world doesn't spread widely at all in the United States because of the early actions that myself and my administration took against a lot of other wishes and the Democrats single point talking point and you see it is that it's Donald Trump's fault right miss Donald now just things that happen but you know what this does show you things happen whoever thought of this two weeks ago who would have thought this could be going on for weeks ago you wouldn't but things happen in life and you have to be prepared and you have to be flexible and you have to be able to go out and get it and my guys that we have the best professionals in the world the best in the world and we are so ready at the same time that I initiated the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years we had a quarantine some people they weren't happy they weren't happy about it I want to tell you there are a lot of people that not so happy but after two weeks they got happy you know who got happy the people around them got happy that's who got I also created a white house virus task force it's a big thing the virus task force I requested 2.5 billion dollars to ensure we have the resources we need the Democrats said that's terrible he's doing the wrong thing he needs eight and a half billion not two and a half I've never had that before he has for two and a half they want to give me eight to have so I said I'll take it does that make me a bit I'll take it I'll take them I never had that beautiful I never had it we won two and a half million that's plenty we demand you take eight and a half he doesn't know what he's doing we want a to half these people are crazy we must understand that border security is also health security  and you've all seen the wall is going up like magic it's going up like magic you think that was an easy one that was not an easy one it's going up great and it's we're up now 132 miles and this is the exact wall that border security wanted everything this is everything they wanted 132 miles already we'll have 500 miles built by very early next year sometimes one of the reasons the numbers are so good we will do everything in our power to keep the infection and those carrying the infection from entering our country we have no choice whether it's the virus that we're talking about or many other public health threats the Democrat policy of open borders is a direct threat to the health and well-being of all Americans now you see it with the coronavirus you see it you see it with the corona boy you know you see that when you have this virus or any other virus or any other problem coming in it's not the only thing that comes in through the border and we're setting records now at the border we're setting records and now just using this so important right so important I'm doing well in the polls despite the worst fake news and worst presidential harassment in the history of the United we've got phenomenal numbers now it's the worst presidential harassment in history we had a great event yesterday a an event that was so beautiful young african-american leaders one of the things I asked him and I've been thinking about this for a long time and great people great people some of them are here tonight do you like the name african-american or black and they said black all at the same time no true I tell you because you say african-american are black and they said almost like immediately black but we had an incredible group of people and what happened is NBC it was such a love fest it was selling crab went on for 45 minutes it was a love fest it was incredible NBC turned out there they are right there they turned down Comcast which owns NBC actually NBC I think which is we call it MS DNC right MS DNC but NBC I think is worse than CNN I actually do and Comcast a company that spends millions and millions of dollars on their image I'll do everything possible to destroy their image because they are they are terrible they're a terrible group of people and they paid me a fortune four years for the apprentice they paid me a fortune and when I left the show is doing great when I left the show 14 seasons think of that he got a big movie star won't tell you his name nobody would know actually nobody will know his name because he was on for such a short period of time but the show went down the tubes very quickly after the head chopped but the country in five years from now of course you'll want to upset him five years or nine years or 13 years or 18 years  10 more years now now or they go crazy when you say it when you say when you say to them five more years so it's fine but you then say maybe nine maybe 13 maybe 17 maybe 21 who knows maybe let's do this let's term limit ourselves at 25 years no more than 25 no more okay they'll pass something in the Senate Tim pass it in the Senate with Lindsey a 25 year term limit please now we're looking to do a great job we need that extra five to get everything solidified you know it's like you take a tree and you plant it it needs some time to grab on right and that's all we need we've got incredible things that we've done we have things we still can do but we have done actually much much more than we even promised we do if you think while the extreme left has been wasting America's time with these vile hoaxes we've been killing terrorists creating jobs raising wages and acting frayed Trevor Fairtrade is securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race religion color and Creed we added another 225,000 jobs last month alone and that makes seven million jobs since our election seven million the unemployment rate in the great state of South Carolina you ever hear that plan now sleepy Joe would say the unemployment rate in the great state of Ohio no no you're in South Carolina Joe Joe you're in south to come up and you ever see the guy the note no no it's South Carolina it's not Ohio okay then he goes alright Iowa did you say I wouldn't no no I did that like seven times if I did that once it would be the end of the road right be the end of it they'd say Trump is lost it they like to say that anyway I guess huh these people are bad people sleepy Joe well he's running tomorrow no but could you imagine if I said just a small fraction of the mistakes he makes which are unbeliever speech I actually said the other night I was watching him when he said about half the population wiped out with guns I said I said that's a horrible thing that's the end of his evening that's the end of his political career and that after the debate they're revealing him they said Joe Biden had a great night last night I don't get it Kim the unemployment rate here in South Carolina has fallen to 2.3 percent the lowest rate in your States the lowest rate in all of America the lowest rate in all of America I said to a friend of mine a Democrat how's the race going tomorrow who's gonna win and he says mr. president now it's very interesting you know he said something he's this guy's a real political Pro - in all fairness even though he's a Democrat but I said who's gonna win he said honestly sir it doesn't matter you are so far ahead in South Carolina that it's meaningless and in North Carolina - in North Carolina we've destroyed the ISIS territorial Caliphate we killed the founder and leader of Isis al Baghdadi is dead he's dead he's dead and we recently took out the world's top terrorists Kazaam so limini ending his evil reign of terror forever  but as we keep on winning Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds they've gone crazy I mean nervous Nancy crying Chuck Schumer crying Chuck a bunch of losers the good citizens of South Carolina have had a front row seat to the extremism of the Democrat candidates whether it's his character that nobody ever heard of him I never heard I thought I knew all the wealthy people this guy Tom said mr. impeachment how did that work out Tom hey he spent millions and millions of dollars in Iowa right Millions he got less than 1% he got like 1/3 of 1% I I wrote a little note did you see it it said Tom it's not so easy doing what I did is it not so easy that's all you have to do is ask many Mike he's in there for a fortune oh yeah he'll he wish he never started he wished he'd never many Mike he wish he never started he said well Trump can do it I'm gonna do it too unfortunately it's not working out too well was that the worst debate performance in history I turned on cuz that you know they had a big audience everybody wanted to see whether or not he was good at what was supposed to be doing up here he turned out to be a total catastrophe that 35 million people can you believe that's a big audience very big and what a killer but this guy steyr he spends all this money he's not that wealthy he spends all of this money and you shouldn't waste your vote on him tomorrow have to be honest the people by the way the Republicans allowed to vote anyway either them are you ready are you ready let's do it together I assume this is okay from a campaign finance standpoint I assume Lindsay Tim our great congressmen are we allowed to do so am I allowed to request first we have to figure out who would be the weakest candidate against president  and then if it's legal I always say if it's permissible by law because they have so many little booby traps but they only like getting the Republicans Democrats skirt right but we'll see what happens about that the Democrats but let me ask you this Lindsay Tim you're pros these are two of the greatest guys I know so let me ask you this so I don't know what the record attendance is in this arena but I was told that we broke it by a lot and you get the people outside are we allowed to tell them who we would like them to vote for cuz you're allowed to skip all right so wait a minute let's do a poll we do this for the fake news back there ready who would be the best candidate for us not for them we're ready ready so let's go through them just quickly we won't include steyr cuz he's a loser he's out we wanted to who would be the best with this is a real pump this isn't one of those fake polls taken by in all fairness I Love You Fox taken by Fox the worst pollster this guy this pulsar hates Trump's guts I was losing the last election by a fortune they said he did great with women what everything was wrong and they never replaced this guy but but watch this you ready so first we'll go let's say sleepy Joe right so right that will go crazy birdy then will go mini Mike I don't think mini Mike I think he's out of it should we include mini mica or not mini mike is gone mini Mike his gun I think he's gone he doesn't have a chance so let's not talk and he's not in your election anyway so let's forget so many Mike I hear mini Mike by the way has left he's basically given up that's what I hear he gave up he gave up now I hope what I just said keeps him in you know he's the kind of a guy he he'll stay in because I don't want to be wrong Mike it's time to go home go home Mike and enjoy your life go home and spend some money on something so let's just go we'll go because okay do you agree we'll go for the two look Pocahontas we could forget about her  Pocahontas I came out with that name far too early because those Bernie Amber's they got you know little M's you got soda horrible two people and they said you know she's not done but she's just so damn mean we can't vote for her she's a mean one she is mean so Pocahontas should we leave her in around how about Klobuchar not gonna happen so really we're down to two candidates right sleepy Joe Biden and crazy Bernie so this is appalled I guarantee this as much as they hate me they hate me they'll gonna put this all over the place we have a pall of like 30,000 people inside and out they're doing it outside too we have a poll are you ready who do I so in other words who's the weaker of the two I'm not interested in who those better no no I'm not interested wait so ready in other words who do I want to run against meaning meaning very simple we put it into nice simple language who the hell is easier to be right so who is easier for us not me for us to be ready crazy Bernie or sleepy Joan I don't know I think maybe crazy Bernie has it a little bit but once more just quick ready Kray he said it doesn't matter you're beautiful I hope so I hope so so who is easier to be crazy birdie or sleepy Joe they think bernie is easier to be they think Bernie's into the pit so whether it's Bernie Sanders plan to eliminate private health care Elizabeth Warren's plan I told you that I had more Indian blood in me than her even though I have none I have done zero I have none I have none I said I have more Indian blood in me than she has and she choked she said I'm gonna show up in ownership she hired this company and they went out and did a blood test 1024 3 so that means I probably won somewhere down the line a million years ago I'm telling you that was horrible she choked we don't want a person to win the chokes we don't want to choke artists right one thing you will say about me I'm not a choker with all these people for years they're after me for you can have chokers we can't have chokers as your president so Elizabeth Warren's plan to eliminate America's borders and that's what you or Minnie Mike's plan to eliminate your Second Amendment and take away your guns up many Mike wants to take away you go the insanity of the Democrat Party is wide millions of registered Democrat voters are joining our movement they are joining our great new Republican Party this November we are going to take back the house we are going to hold the Senate and we are going to keep the White House I wonder what they say when they go down the road and they see these groups of 200 people seriously I wonder what they say they never talk about they'll say Joe Biden had a fabulous crowd today fabulous so fabulous that there's like five people and they'll leave and they'll say President Trump had a smattering of   s'matter they use the word smattering a lot this is not let's let them hear it this is not a smash this is a big this is not his style turn the camera that's not a smell  that is not a smattering I hate it they say Donald Trump you know in India I hate to say this to you but so they actually have a hundred and twenty nine thousand seat stadium did you say it the place was packed and they did better than most they gave me credit for a hundred thousand that was not bad it's a hundred and twenty nine the stadium halls a hundred and if they had a field that's about three times its Cricket it's the biggest stadium and they'd 129 I was with the Prime Minister of India Modi great guy loved by the people of India and we had an amazing thing and I went in and here's the problem this is a big crowd and normally I like talking about my crowds because I get the crowds like nobody but I just got back from a hundred and forty or fifty or sixty thousand people and now I'm coming here what is this place hold fifteen it's hard to be enthused you understand that I may never be excited again about a crowd after going to India but they have think of this they have 1.5 billion people we have 350 so we're doing pretty well I'll tell you what but I love this crowd and I love that crowd to tell you they have a great love for they have a great love they have a great leader and they have a great love for the people of this country were that was really a worthwhile trip with us tonight are both of your incredible US senators two incredible friends two warriors Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator Tim Scott come up  and by the way Tim's incredible mother is right here in the front row you know as they're doing that they got this beginners good almost do a poll in the two of them but we're not doing this but Lindsey is a true fighter for South Carolina loves the estate and as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee he said you know that right he's the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee so important so important senator Graham has been leading the charge to help us confirm a record number of judges to uphold the Constitution Israel and Lindsey was amazing you remember for justice Brett Kavanaugh remember how badly great job Lindsay great job there Thank You senators Scott is a leading superstar he's a superstar but he is a leader in lowering health care costs like nobody has done it you know people don't know but in the last year prescription drug prices came down for the first time in 51 years and that was with no Democrat help if we had their help we could lower it by 50% but we'll get their help one of these days they're gonna get smart senator scott provides world-class care for our veterans what he's done for our veteran veterans is incredible and bringing investment to distressed communities across our country through Opportunity Zones including 135 right here in South Carolina and that's what it is Tim Scott came to my office with an idea he said opportunities and I said to him what the hell is that what is it right Tim and he went through a whole big thing and I said this baby could work and we tried it it is an incredible success and what he's done for this country isn't viable it's incredible Lindsay won't start with Lindsay say a few words please welcome to South Carolina miss Brendan you know when you're gonna win you've been a damn good rosin thank you for 200 conservative judges thank you for justice Cavanaugh and justice Korsak thank you for rebuilding the military and killing the terrorists thank you for the strongest economy of my lifetime and thank you more than anything else for putting up with the neverending you have to go through all right USA USA USA USA USA if if South Carolina I said if South Carolina is Trump country let me hear you speak  if you have if you have benefited from the Trump economy let me hear you scream  okay what what one last thing one last thing one last thing if you want four more years of president  well that was quite a display wasn't it now there's a lot of love in this a lot of people said to me friends of mine they're very successful they say how do you speak in front of 25,000 people and 10,000 people and all of this you know why there's such love in the room it's easy no it's true there is such I explained they don't understand it because they're not for doing that but I say there is such unbelievable love in the room that it's easy to do it's sort of easy to do we're all so thrilled to be joined by many more great leaders from across the state and as some of you may be know I like this guy for a long time governor Henry McMaster come up and come up representatives Joe Wilson Jeff Duncan William Timmons Ralph Norman Tom Rice and the chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party through McKissack  and as I introduced somebody and I'll just say stay there cuz he was brave but he got hit hard he's a very special man retired Marine Corps Major General and most of you know he received the Congressional Medal of Honor James E Livingston and James just relax where's Joe he got hit hard thank you James Congressional Medal of Honor winner thank you James they are great brave people you know we have the Congressional Medal of Honor and we have the Presidential Medal of Freedom and they're both the highest awards one civilian one is military and I always say getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom is much less painful because when I read them off I'll read like with James or with so many of the Congressional Medal of Honor as many are not living to be honest with you and I'll read stories where one of them recently going up a hill hit 19 times by gunfire grabbing four people bringing him down getting onto a helicopter falling out of the helicopter hitting a tree on the way down hitting a tree they went back and saved him but he died later I mean those are tough deals those are tough deal and we have one right here whose living we have one right here who's living but they are tough so thank you very much for being here and maybe I could ask our governor our great governor of this incredible state to say a few words please Henry  who is the greatest president in the whole world whom we love more than anybody in the world and what is the name of the president who loves you and whom illegal send back to the White House for four more glorious years and what is the greatest country on the face of the earth thank you very much and where's Alan is your son here your great son terney general Alan thank you very much take good care of him okay thank you Thank You Alan and thanks the Republicans all over America we are now working on things that nobody ever thought possible since my election over 121 thousand new jobs have been created right here in South Carolina we've lifted 10 million people off welfare including 7 million off of food stamps and that's a good thing got a bad thing they're working and they have great jobs and they love getting up in the morning and they're making much more money and it costs our country nothing we make money they pay taxes it's a whole different deal median household income has reached the highest level in the history of our country the unemployment rate nationwide has hit the lowest rate in over 50 years the average unemployment rate from my administration is the lowest for any US president in recorded history about that one that's a good the unemployment rate among African Americans Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans has reached record lows black youth unemployment has reached an all-time low black poverty levels are the lowest ever recorded in the history of our country for decades Democrat politicians betrayed african-americans they force their children into failing schools they ship their jobs to foreign countries they push their unfair sentencing policies you know about that Alice you know Alice and they favored illegal aliens over their own constituents you know that that's been happening for a long my administration is reversing these failed policies and delivering record games for African Americans we are going to compete for every single vote in 2020 and we expect to win a historic share of the black vote come election day we are supporting working families by fighting paid we got something that nobody thought could happen paid family leave reducing the cost of child care and giving 40 million American families an average of 2200 dollars more in their pockets thanks to the Republican child tax credit Republican not Democrat we are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that decimated manufacturing all across your state and all across our country for years politicians sold you out to global special interests enriching other countries at your expense that ended that ended but I am not the president of the globe I don't want to be the president of the world I am the president of the United States of America last month we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe and I signed the brand-new US Mexico Canada agreement into law the u.s. MCA is a tremendous giant beautiful victory for South Carolina farmers ranchers manufacturers all across the state nothing like it what you had to go through with NAFTA everybody was leaving it was a disgrace that was ever signed you know it better than anybody you had those empty hulks all over the all over the country all over this state all around the world we are demanding trade that is fair and my all-time favorite word reciprocal reciprocal got it before after years of building up other countries we are finally rebuilding our country we are finally putting America first on Noah's you have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than the issue of immigration every Democrat running for president supports free federal welfare for illegal aliens funded by you the American tax they want to treat illegal aliens people that come into our country illegally better than they want to treat our military and our veterans not only does illegal immigration drain our treasury but it threatens innocent lives I recently invited to the White House the granddaughter of a 92 year old woman who was raped beaten brutalized and murdered by an illegal alien who had previously been set free in New York City here in Charleston County an illegal alien was recently charged with sexually assaulting a young girl in the fourth grade in Berkeley County officers captured a previously deported ms-13 gang member who shot a man to death before dousing the body in gasoline and setting him on fire and he should have never been in our country he shouldn't have loud he shouldn't have been allowed  it's been built and by the way just in case you haven't heard it is being built and that you know and you know they're gonna go nuts they're gonna go nuts they thought they got me you know they said okay have you heard him recently okay he's building the wall and you think it's easy getting that kind of money to build a wall when I have a whole party and a deep state and some never Trump is there a dying breed though the good thing they're on respirator they're on Rose there are mouths to mouth resusc"
"J Trump  thank you very much go ahead sit down we'll be here for a little bit thank you all so lien would thank you to Lee Greenwood but I'm thrilled to be in Arizona with thousands of patriotic young Americans who stand up tall for America and refused to kneel to the radical left that's true there is something going on you feel it right you feel the spirit you know the other night a speech I made on Saturday night in a very good place and we had a great evening and the ratings came out you saw that on television it was the number one show in Fox history for Saturday night ratings for them it's all about the ratings I know that the other folks back there CNN and MSDN see I know they're very happy no no they're very happy to see that Fox had the number-one show this is the number-one show in the history of Fox News that's pretty good Saturday night let us also show our appreciation to my good friend charlie i charlie is some piece of art who is mobilizing a new generation of pro american student activists that's what you are and really smart and you'll be up here someday somebody in that audience maybe a few of you you're gonna be up here right here who are tough and smart and determined and truly unstoppable you are I want to thank also Kimberly and I want to thank my son boy I watched my son I got here Wow I said what's this all about he's good and then people like them people like him a lot to everyone here today and watching live all across our country thank you for bravely defending our nation our values and our great American heroes  you know what's going on because you're on the front lines of a tremendous intellectual struggle for the future of our country that's really what you're talking about the future of our country you see what's happening to disgrace it's a disgrace if we weren't here you could forget it okay but we're gonna be here and then you're gonna be here we're gonna keep it going for a long time November 3rd is a big day get out get the parents get the friends get the husband get the weight get everybody now the difference is they get everybody even if they're not registered if they're not citizens if they're here illegally they get everybody that's one of the little difficulties and you know you go through a whole nation and you see what's going on and they report zero in legality check out California sometime check out now check out the the deal that they signed with judicial was it was I think Judicial Watch was like 1 million oh 1.5 million people they settled they agreed that that many people either voted illegally shouldn't have been voting a lot of things they settled and Judicial Watch said look we were so high what difference did it make what difference that are big no will they play a very dirty game you're fighting against an oppressive left-wing ideology that is driven by hate and seeks to purge all dissent and you understand that amazing at that age your young people generally couple of old stirs out their friends among the radical left demands absolute conformity from every professor researcher reporter journalist corporation entertainer politician campus speaker and private citizen but we have Charlie and we have our people and our people is stronger our people are stronger and our people are smarter and we are the elite we are there you know you ever notice they said it two weeks ago I was talking to some missus well you know the elite I said what are you talking about the elite who's the only Debbie Lee they're not they'll leave you dearly you're smarter you're better looking have a better future you know your way around it better believe it or not there's only one thing they have they're more vicious they are vicious they are vicious people anyone who descents from their orthodoxy must be punished canceled or banished that includes from television you say it but you will not be silenced and you know the bottom line I get interviewed by people and I'm sitting the other day and the Oval Office and I didn't like the tone and I said you know it's really nice because I'm here and you're not  the over and I've said it before you're the courageous warriors standing in the way of what they want to do and their goals and standing up for faith and family God country and freedom freedom  unbelievable spirit I appreciate it thank you very much but the radical left they hate our history they hate our values and they hate everything we prized as Americans and we're right because our country didn't grow great with them it grew great with you and your thought process and your ideology the left-wing mob is trying to demolish our heritage so they could replace it with a new repressive regime that they alone control they're tearing down statues desecrating monuments and purging dissenters it's not the behavior of a peaceful political movement it's the behavior of totalitarians and tyrants and people that don't love our country they don't love our country the left is not trying to promote justice or equality or lift up the downtrodden they have one goal the pursuit of their own political power for whatever reason but that's their goal that really seems to be their goal their goal or their sickness and if you give power to people that demolish monuments and attack churches and seize city streets and set fire to buildings then nothing is sacred and no one is safe we stopped them last night you see that interjection  and brought some to jail and others are going to jail the problem we have is states they're weak they're weak the many of the governor's many of the mayors you see what's going on and it's by the way just so you understand it's all Liberal Democrat states could you imagine if sleepy Joe ever became president this country would be a mess they would rip down everything everything sleepy Joe and he wouldn't call the shots well he would have nothing to do with it a lock him in the Oval Office let's just do what we want to do that's why and you know today he's with Obama President Obama it only took him how long a year and a half to endorse him what did it take a year and a half to endorse him even after he won he didn't endorse him for a long time and he's fighting he's fighting for sleepy Joe you know he really feels strongly about it so strongly that he was fighting he wanted everybody to win but Joe Joe won but if you remember in my campaign he fought harder than crooked Hillary President Obama fought me harder he said you cannot let him win you cannot dis you he was all over the place I said this guy's spending all of his time campaigning against me who won that's right  and don't forget don't forget I'm only here because of him and Biden I'm only here because of them because if they did a good job we wouldn't have been here there would have been no reason so I'm only here because of President Obama and the job he did and sleepy Joe Biden and the job that he didn't do other than he did a good job for his son a good job no but I'm only here because of them otherwise I wouldn't be people were very unhappy the fake news isn't reported they were very unhappy there was tremendous dissent tremendous anger a lot of people in this audience I can tell you but we're here today to declare that we will never cave to the left wing and the left wing intolerance  we will never surrender to mob violence and we will uphold American freedom equality and justice for every citizen of every background very strong that's who we are that is what we believe and that is why we must prevail on November 3rd we have to prevail get out there so we're honored to be joined by a great gentleman a great governor of this state he won by a lot of votes and I said to him I doing he said you're doing really well I said good because he knows better than anybody he really has done a tremendous job as governor Arizona Governor Doug Ducey where's Doug thank you thank you  and somebody who we need to keep in the Senate a woman who works very hard I just got back from something you like the border wall martha mcsalley  thank you mom thank you thank you mom we gotta get her in and Mark Kelly who she's running against is very weak on China and lots of other things if between Biden and Kelly and these people they get in China will own this country and they don't own us at all we have we have done great before the plague set in before the plague came over right it came over we were doing the greatest we're the greatest economy we have the greatest job numbers we have had the greatest of everything there wasn't a thing where we weren't number one we were beating them and they were having a tough year 67 it was one of the worst years they had in 67 years now we were doing great and then they said there's a plague coming over from China here it comes what a disgrace what a disgrace and now you saw last week the jobs numbers the biggest ever you saw the retail sales numbers the biggest ever number and we're gonna have a very good third quarter and interesting we're gonna have a good third quarter and right when those numbers are announced you have your election so that's hopefully a sign from up there but I think we're gonna give and they are trying to do their best to keep the country shut down and closed because they love those numbers not to be good but there's not a lot they're gonna be able to do about it not a lot but we want to get Martha in and we want to I want to thank Martha for being here governor I want to thank you for being here I want to thank you for being such a great soldier thank you and we also have some of your warriors great representatives and they fought with me on the impeachment hooks what are the great hoaxes based on a telephone conversation that was perfect I'm the only one that got impeached in history hopefully will be the only one they got impeached over a perfect telephone call like perfect perfect this was like the perfect call I said wait a minute I said we don't need lawyers just keep reading thank goodness we added transcribed it was very good that we had it because remember Adam Schiff got up and he made up a phony story he made up a phony stand that's what they're all about I said it before they're vicious Paul Gosar stand up Paul where's Paul Paul Paul breakdown as a man I spoke to him this morning Andy Biggs break Thank You Annie Freedom golfers now that vark Meadows is our great chief he's our chief mark meadows by the way mark Meadows is here too let's have it for Mark Meadows Marco but Andy took over and the freedom caucus is doing great thank you thank you Andy somebody got to know very well during the hoax Debbie let's go she's good that's another one oh there she she just stood out on television it was like she popped she did great I said you're so lucky you know me Demi Chrissy brahler was one of the people she stood out Thank You Deb thank you another warrior David Schweikert David thank you thank you David thank you and a man whose very understated he just gets it done behind the scenes never likes to go on television never likes talking a lot but he's a great congressman from one of my favorite states Florida Matt Gaetz bad gas he keeps it low-key and simple right no actually he keeps it up and not simple but he's great and he does a fantastic job thank you Matt along with a lot of great people Arizona Treasurer Kimberly Yee Kimberly thank you House Speaker rusty Bowers rusty rusty Thank You rusty thank you Senate President wow that's a big deal Karen Fann thank you so Madam President how am i doing in Arizona okay she says yes she knows she knows and Navajo Nation vice-president Myron lazier thank you I also want to recognize a truly courageous woman angel mom is a friend of mine too by the way one of the first people I met when I announced I was gonna run what she has gone through with illegal immigration nobody will ever go through hopefully nobody ever has to go through unfortunately people will have to do it but she is one of the first people I met and she lost a magnificent child to an illegal immigrant and it's just a horrible thing and she's spent her life she's spent the last long period of years fighting and fighting and fighting and people have gotten to respect her greatly Mary and Mendoza wherever you  a lot of guts he's got a lot of guns and thank you a very special thank you to pastor Luke Barnett and the dream city church for hosting us where is the pastor pastor is that the pastor a good-looking where's the past where I want to see this guy oh he's good I'll be here I'll get here some I'll be here some Sunday morning thank you thank you very much great job pass right here I hear great things thank you very much we're also joined by a man who became such a superstar overnight you know I put him there as a little bit of a filler to be honest he did a great job he was the ambassador to Germany right and he was like you know I needed somebody to sit warm out a chair he wore out the joy he did warm it he wore it out right Matt Gaetz he wore out the chair Richard Grinnell  what a guy where's Matt no say hello you are fantastic I want a picture of him walking into the DOJ with a big sad show and I realized what good shakes he said you gonna store and he's walking and those good and he had lots of gold gold and those satchels didn't they huh cuz I'll tell ya we caught him let's see what happens but we caught him right we caught and a friend of mine that did a great job is the NASA CFO and you see we've totally rebuilt NASA we're sending Rockets up now for the first time Jeff to win Jeff the way Jeff everyone in this room is bound together by a shared set of moral principles and enduring truths we believe the United States of America is the greatest and most righteous nation that has ever existed gonna keep it that way we believe that every citizen has the fundamental right to think to speak to live and pray according to their own conscience we believe that the beloved heroes of American history should not be torn down by militant mobs but held up as an example to the world now thereafter George Washington I said what did he do wrong George Washington Thomas Jefferson we stopped them they were heading toward the Jefferson Memorial they have they couldn't care less I think half of them don't even know who Thomas Jefferson is how about Ulysses Grant they want the Confederate soldiers but all of a sudden they go after Grant but he's the one that defeated the Confederate soldiers so what's that all about how about Gandhi how about Churchill you know Churchill because this is going outside of our country now no we'll stop it don't worry you still worry about it ten years is a long time to spend in prison  so our heroes are not a source of shame they are an example and something that you can all look up to a true example of greatness a point of pride and we will honor them and cherish them forever we will cherish them and we have to cherish our past we have to cherish good or bad we have to understand our past we have to understand our history because if we don't know our history it could all happen again after Norwich  we believe in law and order we support the men and women of law enforcement and we stand with the citizens in every city and every community and every part of our country who wish to live in safety security dignity and peace  and we know that American patriots don't bow down to foreign powers we don't back down from left-wing bullies and the only Authority we worship is our God  these are the values our country was built upon these are the values that unite our citizens and these are the values that powered our civilization to its towering heights lifting billions from poverty healing disease curing illness and reaching new summits of scientific endeavor artistic triumph and human achievement guided by these timeless convictions my administration has been delivering historic gains for the American people  like no one has ever done in the first three and a half years of a presidency not even close it's not even close by the end of my first term we will have close to 300 federal judges appointed in a pro 300 if you get 10 it's a lot 300 an old-time record and very importantly we confirm two great Supreme Court justices and we have to win because obviously we need more justices on the Supreme Court people don't realize how important that is I've always heard it's the most important thing you can do I always said defense but that's right there Supreme Court justices and judges and we are setting records we've spent over two trillion dollars to completely rebuild the awesome power of the United States military and I very proudly created the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces the space force good deal that's a victory that's a figure you think it's just that if you did just that that's like that's a good president think of then that's one of many many things we'll go over a few of them but many many things so the Air Force was the last one there was 75 years ago the Air Force 75 years ago we just created another branch we're gonna have a general a nice general we have right now on the Joint Chiefs of Staff for full full deal and that's a great honor because space is going to be very important first they smiled when I came up with the idea I never talked about it on the campaign I don't think I ever mentioned it once it's just an idea that I learned as I was going through military and really an amazing thing space is gonna be so important that'll be one of our most important of all and it's an honor we're now doing a Hydra sonic I called super duper z' missile goes 17 times faster than the fastest missile right  we passed VA choice a big deal and VA accountability a big deal they've been trying for 50 years almost 50 years on both accountability they couldn't fire people that treated our vets badly now we can say you're fired oh by the way you had a big deal that's right that's right you had a big deal in Arizona I've been reading about it for years now Doug where they had somebody stealing in the VA and they caught him cold like 500,000 right that's a lock they stole five hundred thousand they couldn't fire him they couldn't fire him so between the unions and civil service and all of the things they couldn't fire but we made it so that you can now say you fired get out and they'll give our veterans the care they so richly deserve you know choice is so big instead of waiting for a week two weeks five weeks you have no idea how bad it was if they have to wait and they have great doctors we have great doctors in the VA if you have to wait if for any reason there's a delay you go outside you get a doctor you get fixed up we pay the bill and it sounds expensive it's cheap it's cheap we save money most implement we save lives people would get online and they're okay not feeling well by the time they see a doctor in some cases they check its terminal II they they are terminally ill it would take weeks and weeks and now we have VA choice that's why you see good store is 91% approval rating okay 91% va va choice nobody thought we were going to get that one done we passed the largest package of tax cuts and tax reforms and we passed the largest number of regulation cuts by a factor of many times no other administration even though in some cases eight years and in one case more nobody has cut regulation like we've cut regulation not even close and it's one of the reasons we did so well before the plague and we're doing so well after the plague it's going away we eliminated Obama cares unfair individual mandate  which punish young Americans like you for the privilege of not buying bad health insurance that's really what it was he had the privilege of not buying and you had to pay for it not too good so we got rid of it that was a big deal that was one of the most unpopular things anywhere on any subject we will always protect people with pre-existing conditions and you have Martha's pledge that she is going to do that also so we're gonna do that and the Democrats can't make that pledge because they're gonna raise your taxes like crazy I never heard you know all my life I think Doug can maybe explain it but Doug all my life I'd watch and the best politicians they want to cut taxes not raise taxes all of a sudden we're in an age where things are very different let's face it ripping down statues one of the things as the Democrats want to raise your taxes to a level that nobody can even believe and it won't be nearly enough to pay for what they want to do you talk about bad health care it's just gonna be a disaster but they want to raise everybody's taxes I always thought it was supposed to be the other way right but let's see how they do on November 3rd I don't think they're gonna do - well we passed right to try to give critically ill patients access to life-saving cures so they don't have to travel all around the world and see if they can find and we've had tremendous success with that right to try very proud of it they've been trying to get that one done for 40 years and I've just come from the Arizona border Yuma where we marked the completion of over 220 miles of brand-new beautiful border wall  you know you don't hear about though they don't want to talk about the wall letting would you notice never has the Democrat Party fought so hard against something and do you notice they never talk about the wall because in the end they gave it up they give up we won we're building it fully funded I could build numerous walls with all the money I had fully funded but you know why that I'll talk about it cuz it's a bad subject remember the use of a it's a it's obsolete we weren't drones oh great the drones flying around we're gonna watch everyone pour into our country the drone remember they said the walls obsolete and I said today nobody heard it I thought it was sort of I think I said it but I'm sure if people have said it over the years you know you're in an industry in many cases you have a computer in about two weeks it's old it's absolutely right in technology I said to some of the people I meet them all I say the problem with your business it gets obsolete quick to things that will never be obsolete a wheel and a wall right a wheel and they say that wall is obsolete with modern technology no no mana technologies like let's watch everybody pour it now we have a wall so we've built 220 miles we're going to have and it's every single element I met with Border Patrol who a fantastic by the way every single element they want it you have to see through which makes sense you have to do all of the different we have cameras on it we have sensors on it it is just too a 30 feet high it's very hard very hard we have anti-crime provision on the top we have the whole deal and it's very powerful and by the way where that wall is nobody's getting through nobody  we put a chunk California off the record California would say please can we have the walk this is California you know if they didn't want the world they don't want the wall but they wanted the wall right because right next to San Diego's a wonderful town in Mexico you know the town I won't mention the name but they're heavily infected with kovat debe notice I said the other night did anybody see my speech the other night on Saturday that what I said the other night there's never been anything where they have so many names I could give you 19 or 20 names for that right it's got all different names wuhan go hannes was catching on coronavirus right Kong flu country Kovac Kovac 19 Kovac I say what's the 19 Kovac 19 some people can't explain what the 19 give me the Kovac 19 I said that's an odd name I could give you a many many names some people call it the Chinese flu the China flu right they call it the China as opposed to chat the China I've never said anything like it but here's the story we are going to be stronger than ever before and it's gonna be soon and I think you'll remember you know now Biden's going around like he's a tough guy you know he doesn't know where the hell he is weird where are you Joe Joe where are you jump tell me where you are Joe but he's going around I stood up for China no his son walked out with 1.5 billion to manage and what he did where's hard to remember I said where's hunter they came out with this t-shirt and some guy made a fortune where's hunt where's that by the way where is hunter man he did well as vice president could you imagine how Hunter's gonna do if this guy ever won and the father could honestly say I have no idea what's going on the grazers so Kaley where's Kate where's Kaylee where's Kaylee where's bar Kelly what a job she's done our press secretary  everyone's doing well up press record at least press secretary I mean Sarah is gonna be the governor of Arkansas pretty soon I hope Shawn's got his own show in this one here she could run whatever else you wanted but I said don't run don't run just stay here we like the job you do now we're doing great I stood up to China like no other administration in history for decades they've ripped us off they ripped us off like nobody and I charge them a little thing called the massive tariffs we took in billions and billions of dollars they devalued their currency and you know they like to say our people paid oh no no our people didn't pay they devalued their currency in order to pay it and they also put money out there otherwise they wouldn't have been able to sell their product but what happened for many years there is nobody ever that ripped off the United States like China nobody nobody nobody so now we did a deal but you know the ink wasn't dry when the when the plague flew in the ink wasn't dry the deal was great everybody was happy I was thrilled 250 billion dollars worth of purchases over a short period of time all great but the ink wasn't dry and we got hit by the plague so I'm not too happy about that but the long slow surrender is over because today and every day we are putting now America first America comes first  we sparked a revolution in domestic energy production in the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on planet earth America as of a couple of years ago is no longer energy dependent we are now energy dominant and because our energy used went down so much during this pandemic it was a very very bad period of time because we have ten million jobs energy jobs and now we have the oil press up where it should be and yet people are paying very little for gasoline that's like the perfect thing right that's the perfect thing to do and I signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform which nobody was able to get done very important  very important I secured record and permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities nobody goes  and we created opportunities owns along with Tim Scott and since then countless jobs and 100 billion dollars of new investment have poured into 9,000 of our most distressed neighborhoods in the country nine thousand opportunities run so think of it I did criminal justice reform we did a lot of work on prison or prison reform we did Opportunity Zones think of this think of all we've done and we've taken care of the black colleges and universities and nobody talks about it but I have to talk about it and you know what  our black communities know it and I think you're gonna see something really great happened because they understand it they really understand it and I'll tell you what whether it's any community you talk about but if you take a look at those numbers from pre virus but you take a look at them in a year from now you watch and your 401 s right now your 401 KS I don't think you want to have somebody else playing with them because you're just about at a record high and you put the wrong person in they will be obliterated they will be obliterated so we're fighting for school choice because we know that access to education is a civil right the civil right school choice  but you ever see two parties so diametrically opposed to each other I mean it's who can be opposed to that but it's so important but the Democrats will never ever allow that to happen last month we returned American astronauts to space aboard American Rockets for the first time in nearly a decade and the United States will be the first nation to plant our beautiful American flag on planet Mars  and we destroyed we destroyed 100% of the ISIS territorial Caliphate and the savage terrorist monsters al-baghdadi and Kasim Salome nee they are both dead hundred percent hundred percent of the Isis Caliphate er when I took over that Caliphate was gold like this it was a mess but we destroyed it no administration has accomplished more in just three and a half years it is I mean I could go after those are just a few points I could talk for an hour and a half just reading the points off you know that yet as you know in recent months America is face down that unseen enemy the virus from the distant land that spread across the globe and invaded our shores but invaded the shores of think of it 88 188 Nations I have a friend he's a very smart guy said I didn't know there were that many nations I said actually go over 200 but 188 nations that we know of I love you too thank you  thank you and tomorrow the fake news will be said he said he loves somebody he said he loves somebody terrible  terrible I'll be a big trouble the fakers they are terrible people who are the two who the people that stood up I just was set up Liz who said I love you that's whoa  sit down fast please don't let them see you that's a lot of press back there look at that that's the problem they cover all these speeches you know I never have a speech done I never have a speech where it's not like live television you know sometimes you'll have one way you can actually speak and you don't have to worry about like one little slip one tiny little slip one word you could say ten speeches one little word they'll say he's lost it no you know who's lost it sleepy Joe has lost  in response we took swift and early action to ban travel from China very very early remember Nancy Pelosi and that crazy group Nancy Pelosi she wanted to dance in the streets of Chinatown in San Francisco long after I banned China from coming here we saved tens of thousands of lives with that early decision and then we made an early decision on Europe yet liberal lawmakers and Democrat politicians condemned this policy the left rejected science in favor of their fanatical devotion to open borders they want open borders not just our southern border this is why the left is so dangerous they always put their ideology before your safety it's crazy what's going on defund and abolish the police how is that a good idea  you know I passed a set I was in the White House and there was this set and it had dem say think of it defund in abolish I said what are they gonna do fun no I said it says defund and abolish I said what what are they gonna do fund and abolish I thought was gonna be something they said the police I said all great I just won the election that's  so in addition to issuing a series of aggressive travel bans my administration launched the greatest national mobilization since World War two we have done such a great job with this between the ventilators and all of these things including testing we're testing so much we're now up to twenty seven point five million tests I thought it was 25% seemed like 25 million 27 they just told me twenty-seven point five million tests now when you have all those tests you have more cases so the news cover said they have more cases well yeah if you're gonna do 20 and if let's say other countries - 1 million 2 million big countries 3 million now 4 weeks ago Germany was a 3 million test so I don't know what they are now but I know they're not anywhere near where we are so then they'll say we have more cases now look we want to do testing we want to do everything but they use it to make us look bad but because of it our mortality rate is so low it's so great what's happening so we want to tell so we do all these tests and we find pockets that we find people and we find cases and they say the cases have jumped instead of saying what a job we're doing with testing but we did the job with testing and we did ventilators and we did we cam"
so hello everybody thank you very much let me begin by sending america's deepest sympathies to the people of lebanon where reports indicate that many many people were killed hundreds more were very badly wounded in a large explosion in beirut our prayers go out to all the victims and their families the united states stands ready to assist lebanon a very good relationship with the people of lebanon and we will be there to help it looks like a terrible attack i also want to provide the latest on tropical storm isis approximately 600 000 are without power along the east coast and utility companies are working around the clock to restore service as quickly as possible i spoke to governor cooper i spoke to governor desantis and i spoke to all of the people at fema and they're working very hard coastal areas and the storms path can expect to see the storm surge and rip currents while inland areas could see flooding and very very high winds fema is responding to states that have requested the assistance we have a list of those states we can give them to you in a little while and my administration is monitoring the situation very closely we have uh the military on guard but we have uh fema is there in all cases corps of engineer is ready if needed the army corps of engineers very talented people i urge everyone in the storm's path to remain alert and to follow the guidance of your state and local authorities i now want to update you on the path forward having to do with the china virus before i do that i want to give you some numbers which are rather spectacular that just came out the manufacturing index of the institute for supply management that's ism most of you know it by ism increased for the third month in a row rising nearly two points in july to 54.2 that was fantastic the highest reading since march of 2019 this is remarkable considering the survey was conducted throughout july and showed significant improvement despite the southwest in particular virus hot spots the ism measures and it's a very strong measure of new orders rose five points in july to 61.5 and its highest uh reading that would be since september of 2018 that's big number since the april low new orders are up over 34 points which is the largest increase in the history of the ism dating back all the way to 1948 so 34 points that's the largest since 1948. similarly the ism's measure of production is up 35 points from its april low to a reading of 62.1 which is the largest three-month gain in over 70 years at some some number these were somewhat surprising but i've been saying we're doing well and those numbers are really spectacular automobile sales likewise are a key factor in the resurgence of manufacturing since the march low of 8.8 million units with sales and all of the numbers that are going up stunningly it's 65 percent increase since then to 14.5 million units which is a a massive number the great strength and great news is really for states like in particular michigan and ohio south carolina pennsylvania very good florida a little bit these are great numbers record-setting numbers the strength in new car sales is also evident in the used-car market where soaring demand literally soaring demand is putting upward pressure on the used-car prices this is a leading indicator of the motor vehicle industry the need to restock depleted shelves will further galvanize the factory sector and we think very substantially based on the numbers we're very very happy with these numbers and i think most people are anywhere from surprise to shocked by these numbers in a very positive way economy-wide inventories crashed at a near 320 billion dollar annualized rate last quarter crash in that case means a good thing not a bad thing that's the largest drop ever on record ever homebuilder sentiment likewise is soaring as our home sale sentiment is now higher than last year in new homes recently made a 13-year high so we have a 13 year high in new home new home construction new business applications are very strong that just came out the widely followed atlanta fed gdp and that's something that they have just come out with now forecasts the new data point and incorporates it into quarterly estimates it looks like it's showing 20 annualized growth in the current quarter so 20 in the current quarter will take that all day long let's see if that's right that's a projection so we'll see if that's right the atlanta fed very respected the virus back to that we are continuing to monitor and monitor particular hot spots across the south southwest and the west and we're seeing indications that our strong mitigation efforts are working very well actually especially to protect those who are most at risk which has really been our primary focus for ever since we've gotten to understand this horrible horrible plague that's been unleashed in our country by china as of yesterday cases are declining in 70 of the jurisdictions compared to 36 percent last monday that's a big big number 11 out of 13 states with the positive rate above 10 have seen a decline in daily cases since mid-july in other states the data suggests that the need for continuing vigilance always as strong even though the numbers are getting very good states that have a test positivity rate between five and ten percent and in the states with the lowest positivity rates we also see slight increases in daily cases and a couple of them we must ensure that these states did not become new flare-ups so we're watching them very very closely fortunately thanks to substantial improvements in treatment and the knowledge we have gained about the disease itself the recent rise in cases has not been accompanied by a significant increase in deaths fatalities nationwide are that roughly half the level of the april peak so the death the number of deaths or fatalities are at half the level one is too much one death because this should have never happened to us it should have been stopped it very easily by china in wuhan thanks to our major advances in treatment we've seen vast improvements in recovery rates across all age groups compared to april mortality progressive strategy focused on protecting americans at highest risk as we race toward the development of a vaccine we must continue to take extraordinary precautions to shield the elderly and we're doing that we're doing that at a level that we've never even dreamt possible both with testing and with common sense and those with underlining conditions especially the elderly with the underlining whether it's heart or diabetes they seem to be the two most predominant conditions that cause tremendous problems while allowing those at lowest risk to carefully return to work and to school where embers flare up we must engage immediately and that's what we're doing this is the science-based approach and that's good with us working very hard on that an extended lockdown would fail to target resources at the highest risk populations while inflicting massive economic pain long-lasting damage on society and public health as a whole so there won't be lockdowns but we watch specific areas we're very careful and we're putting out embers we're putting out flames when you look at what's happening with miami and it's going the numbers are going down but florida is going down very significantly texas and california are going down rather significantly on telemedicine as we discussed the last time as and as i said numerous times during this day it's an incredible thing that's happening a central part of our effort to protect the elderly is to greatly expand access to telehealth so seniors can be treated from the safety of their homes and that's what's happening the number of medicare beneficiaries using telehealth increased from roughly 14 000 a week to nearly 1.7 million so from 14 000 to 1.7 million per week in total 10 million medicare beneficiaries of excess telehealth services since the pandemic began that's a tremendous thing that's happened with telehealth as we shelter those at high risk we are also pouring every resource at our disposal into the development of therapies and vaccines two vaccine candidates are currently in the final stage of clinical trials with several more vaccine candidates entering phase three in the coming weeks and you've read and seen what's happened today today's news was very exciting through operation warp speed we're also mass producing all of the most promising vaccine candidates and we're determined to have a vaccine very quickly we think we're going to have something very soon we have great companies these are the among the greatest companies in the world but right now they don't like me so much because i'm forcing them to drop drug prices prescription drug prices very massively some of these companies are involved in that some of them aren't we're having a tremendous you'll see a tremendous drop in price we're using favorite nations we're using the rebates we're using everything so long i've heard about how well middlemen are they call them the middlemen and uh they are very wealthy nobody even knows who they are but they're very wealthy people and we're doing the rebates we're doing purchases from other countries like canada which buys drugs for much less money than the united states is allowed to under a very bad system i don't call it archaic i call it bad because it's meant really for drug companies to get higher prices but under under the system of matching that we have if germany has a pill for 10 cents and ours is two dollars we're allowed to say we want favorite nations and we want the pill for the same the same as the lowest country in the world if they sell to one country lower than anybody else that's the price we're going to get drug companies aren't too happy about that big pharma we've also dramatically accelerated the availability of plasma therapies steroid treatments antivirals and other therapies to treat the illness today the nih we're very exciting announced that they're beginning the trial of two new antibody treatments which will take place in 40 cities across the country we're going to move move very quickly results look very good already incredible results more than 230 clinical trials for potential treatments are underway and we've secured five hundred thousand courses of treatment for rem deservier of remdessevier we're really doing a job with it and it's helping a lot of people that's why you see the fatalities and mortality numbers looking very good relatively speaking that is but that's for american hospitals through the month of september so we have room desevere at a very high level for hospitals through the month of september that's big news the united states also is far and away the most robust testing capacity in the world testing has been incredible what we've been able to do nobody's even close since march 12th we've increased daily testing by 32 000 how's that 32 000 somebody would say that must be a typo it's not a typo 32 000 we now conducted over 61 million tests nationwide averaging over 820 000 tests per day and nearly 5 million tests per week and now that we're understanding the virus we're understanding very much what we're doing with respect to who it affects who it's destroying and who gets away with it like young people very young people we'll be having some interesting statements having to do with testing and focus testing i call it focus testing by comparison mexico so we're doing numbers that are incredible but by comparison mexico as you know the president was here is a great guy but their their numbers are much different they do about 1 million tests france has done 2.9 million tests canada is around the 4 million mark australia is around the 4 million mark the united states is testing more people in a single week than in many cases uh large segments or large well-known countries all put together it's been an amazing achievement the testing and the quality of the testing also and now we're doing testing where you can have results in five minutes seven minutes and 15 minutes as opposed to waiting to come back from labs for it to come back from labs over the last several weeks hhs has opened surging testing sites in baton rouge new orleans phoenix miami jacksonville florida mcallen texas bakersfield california and this week we're opening new surge sites in houston texas atlanta to date more than 130 000 tests have been conducted at these sites last week the fda also authorized the first two tests that display an estimated quantity of antibodies present in the individual's blood which is a big deal allowing us to learn more about the immune response fema and hhs has worked with the private sector to deliver more than we have new numbers more than 200 million n95 masks 855 million surgical masks 36 million goggles and face shields 364 million gowns and coveralls and 21 billion gloves billion can you believe that billion gloves and we distribute that to the governors different states and uh they're when we get on the phone with them they're very happy that i can tell you no no complaints from any of them they're very very happy what they say to you separately maybe will change for political reasons but they are very happy with the job we've done in our national stockpile we've tripled the number of n95 masks on hand to more than 40 million triple the number of gowns to 15 million and quadruple the number of ventilators to nearly 70 000. these numbers are growing every day and we're now making thousands of ventilators many thousands of ventilators a month and we're getting them to other countries who are desperately in need of ventilators they're very hard to produce and very complicated machines so we're we're fully stocked here and we've made sure that every state is fully stocked but we're getting them to a lot of countries that need help we'll continue to work with the governors and local authorities to help them ensure significant hospital capacity protective equipment supplies and medicine i'm more confident than ever that we will get a vaccine very soon and we will defeat the virus and i want to thank you all for being here we'll take a few questions uh yeah please i wanted to ask you about kodak you had a big announcement the other day about getting kodak into the pharmaceutical business but the sec is now investigating what happened can you say a word or two whether you think that there might have been some kind of a problem uh in terms of how those arrangements were made is there any grounds for concern from your perspective no i don't know i wasn't involved in the deal the concept of the deal is good but i'll let you know we'll we'll do a little study on that we'll find out if there's if there is any problem we'll let you know about it very quickly but i wasn't involved in it it's a big deal it's a way of bringing back a great area to an addition to pharmaceuticals kodak has been a great name but obviously pretty much in a different business and so we'll see what that's all about but we'll we'll let you know very quickly yeah please um i just want to follow up before i ask a coronavirus question on lebanon you called this an attack uh are you confident that this was an attack and not an accident well it would seem like it based on the explosion i met with some of our great generals and they just seemed to feel that it was this was not a some kind of a manufacturing explosion type of event this was a seems to be according to them they would know better than i would but they seem to think it was a attack it was a bomb of some kind yes interesting um and on coronavirus you've talked a lot about when you talk about the mortality rate the deaths as a proportion of cases which i understand that is significant when you look at how deadly the virus is or how good a country does that keeping people alive who get infected but when you're talking about the scope of this virus when you look at the percentage of the population that's died there's only three countries that have more deaths than the us so how do you explain that that why the percentage of the population has died is so much higher in the us well i think actually the numbers are lower than others i'll get back to you on that but we proportionately are lower than almost all countries we're at the bottom of the list and we're uh relative to cases also we're at the bottom of the list which is a good thing being at the bottom of the list but i can get back to you we have about four or five different lists on that and we're generally speaking at the very bottom of the list so i'll get back to you when i look at the johns hopkins uh you know chronovirus resource center on their website it says the most affected countries when you look at deaths for a hundred thousand people the populations of how many people the population have died you have the uk peru chile and then the us um you know canada has eight thousand nine thousand deaths obviously they're smaller than us but that's only six percent of the population uh you know that there's six percent of our total cases so why aren't the deaths so much higher than the last of our numbers were based on the new york had a very tough time as you know new york new jersey that area and when you take them out uh just as an example take a look at florida relative to new york that's not to say anything wrong with new york it's just a very tough place people are close together it's crowded it's it's not easy but when you take that out our numbers are among the lowest and even with it in i will get back to you but we have among the lowest numbers they've done a fantastic job on it yeah yes mr president i would like to ask a question about the election but one thing on unemployment first are you considering taking executive action to extend or rather reinstate the unemployment benefits that expired last week if congress can't get a deal by the end of the week and as a general point what rate then would you want in there a percentage or flat rate we are looking at it we're also looking at various other things that i'm allowed to do under the system and such as the payroll tax suspension and so we're allowed to do things we're talking with the democrats they seem to be much more interested in solving the problems of some of the democrat-run states and cities that have suffered greatly through bad management i mean really bad management so that seems to be where they they're looking for a trillion dollars to help out with cities that are run by democrats in some cases radical left democrats that have not done a good job i appreciate today the wall street journal said very good things that we did a great job in portland by having our people go in homeland security chad wolfe and folks we went into portland and we've done a great job and they had that in an editorial that we that we really won that situation but we want the whole we we did save the courthouse the courthouse was going to be burned down or knocked down it was in tremendous danger we went in we took care of it uh and we appreciated what the wall street journal said as far as the various uh things that i may or may not sign uh i i may not have to sign i mean progress is being made as you know very well in the hill we'll see what happens but i have the right including the payroll tax suspension uh we may do some things we want to take care of the eviction problem people are being evicted very unfairly it's not their fault it's china's fault it's not their fault and people are being evicted and we can do that with an executive order so if we don't get and we want to do it relatively quickly i mean even from the standpoint of covid uh people get evicted and then they go into shelters and there are thousands of people in the shelters and this is not a time you never want to be in a shelter but this is not a time to be in a shelter with a covet they catch it they get it and it's no good so i may have to do something on evictions too because the democrats amazingly don't want to do it we offer them short-term deals and we offer them lots of alternatives but so far the only thing they really want to do is bail out states that have been poorly managed by democrats okay and if i put on the election sir can i present trump on the uh the sale of tick-tock you're basically arguing that the us government is going to collect a cut from a type of a transaction including two companies in which it doesn't hold a stake in that's unprecedented that's never happened in u.s history before and the administration has offered very little explanation about how that's going to work can you back your statement out and provide specifics about how you say that's impressive did you actually use that term i said it's unprecedented well it's almost the same thing not quite i like it i like impressive i like it impressive not quite close uh so tic tac tic toc is very successful it does tremendous business in the united states people are riveted by it i mean i have many friends when they saw that announcement they're calling i think their kids love it they don't because they don't get to see their kids anymore but they are it's it's an amazing thing whatever it may be and i told microsoft and frankly others if they want to do it if they make a deal for tick-tock whether it's the 30 percent in the united states or the whole company i say it's okay but if you do that we're really making it possible because we're letting you operate here so the united states treasury would have to benefit also not just the not just the sellers and i said inform very simple i mean we have we have all the cards because without us you can't come into the united states it's like if you're a landlord you have a tenant the tenant's business needs a rent it needs a lease and so what i said to them is whatever the price is a very big proportion of that price would have to go to the treasury of the united states and they understood that and actually they agreed with me i mean i think they agreed with me very much yeah please anybody thank you thank you so that deal may or may not happen we've given them until september 15th or so and we'll see if we can have it and if there can be great security meaning the obvious security microsoft would be a company that would be good in that respect or approved in that respect at many levels including working with the department of defense and you know they're very high level approvals so it would be good but there are other companies also yes well thank you sir have you or the anyone in the administration reached out to other companies aside from microsoft to see if they're interested we've had other companies call us microsoft called me directly and we've had other companies call i don't know where they are it sounds like microsoft is along the way of doing something uh i don't blame them it'd be you know it's a great company it's really a great company but we cannot take the security risks of any of those companies including huawei which as you know we put a halt to but we can't take the security risk i think our attitude on china has changed greatly since the china virus hit us i think it changed greatly it hit the world and it shouldn't have they should have been able to stop it so uh we feel differently i just don't know when you lose when you lose so many thousands of people and you know ultimately it'll be millions of people around the world uh it's a terrible thing that happened to the united states and europe and the entire world really a terrible thing yes please president i have two quick questions going on to fire someone on policing on the virus you said recently that there can be too much testing can you explain what the downside would be from testing too many americans to the virus and why you haven't provided a date by which all americans might have the same kind of testing that we have here at the white house well we do more testing than anybody in the world as i explained and i don't mean just a little bit if you look at india they're at about 11 million and we're at 61 million and there comes a point when you just you you want to focus your testing in a different way and we'll be announcing some what we've done is incredible with the testing not only the testing not only the number of tests but also very importantly the quality of the test and the machinery itself to do the testing nobody thought it would be possible to get a 5 minute and a 15 minute result that's a very accurate result and we do with abbott abbott laboratories has done a great job many of these companies have done an incredible job so we're looking at that very strongly and we're looking at uh doing something that if we do if we do it look right now what the testing is doing is helpful but we're spending massive amounts of money and we want to have it we want to have a channel very accurately we want to be able to help the most people we can but we are testing at a level that no country in the world and i've spoken to the leaders of the world and they'll ask me about it no country in the world thought it would be it's even believable that we're able to test so much 61 million versus you know most countries don't even test you know when they test when somebody's feeling badly if somebody's feeling badly they're symptomatic that's when they test and that's a big difference with us we go around and looking because if we find we find spots we find hot spots one problem is uh from the standpoint of uh the media we end up with far more cases than we would normally show so it's you know as i called it the other day and a statement i said it's called media gold you know for the media it's gold but the truth is it's uh we've done an incredible job in testing nobody in the world has done the job other leaders have told me the same thing they can't believe we're able to do it and and we will continue but we want to really be able to test very specifically the people that are in most danger most in need thank you mr president i wanted to ask you um first about what you tweeted out earlier today in regards to florida and your comfortableness as it relates to male and ballots for florida why does that apply to florida and it doesn't apply to male invaliding across the country so florida's got a great republican governor and it had a great republican governor it's got ron desantis rick scott two great governors and over a long period of time they've been able to get the absentee ballots done extremely professionally florida is different from other states i mean in nevada where you have a governor he said let's just send out millions of ballots and the post office cannot be prepared i haven't spoken to the post office about it but i don't know how they could possibly be prepared florida has been working on this for years and they have a very good system of mail-in and that would be absentee or even beyond absentee so in the case of florida there aren't too many people that would qualify they're so well run florida's a very well-run state low taxes low everything they've done a great job really a great job and the two governors between the both of them they've really got a great system of absentee ballots and even the even in the case of mail-in ballots the postal services are built up there you know it takes a long time when you look at the carolyn maloney election i think they and i'll give you the story i think you have to do that election over that election is no good you have to take a look in new york they have thousands of ballots they don't know what happened to them is there fraud is there it's a disaster that's only for a relatively small number of ballots but i think they have to do the election in new york over the times wrote a big story about it yesterday front page story it's a disaster it's a mess and they have to do that i think they have to do that election over nobody can know what the election result is so in the case of florida they've done a great job they've had tremendous success with it but they've been doing this over many years and they've made it really terrific so for florida you can mail in your ballots you don't have to go in maybe a couple of other states they've worked out a system but this took years to do this doesn't take weeks or months in the case of nevada they're going to be voting in a matter of weeks and you can't do that i can't imagine the post office could do it all of a sudden they're supposed to be dealing in millions of ballots but florida's done a great job and we have total confidence that if you mail in your ballot in florida it's going to matter thank you all very much thank you thank you what about in other states did you encourage voters in other states to request
me and i gladly stand up next to you and defend her still today cause there ain't no doubt i love this land god bless the usa  from the lakes of minnesota to the hills of tennessee across the plains of texas from sea to shining sea from detroit down to houston and new york to valencia where there's pride in every american heart and it's time we stand and say  and i won't forget the men who died who gave up next to you and defend her still today  god oh thank you very much everybody thank you well thank you very much thank you very much and you know considering that we caught president obama and sleepy joe biden spying on our campaign treason will probably be entitled to another four more years after that  i want to thank you and art and brandon you're incredible i know i've known you now a long time right from the beginning we had the chemistry we had that good chemistry i'll sit down you know it's 122 degrees in this place and we have our great governor governor can we make it a little bit just this is like a test you think joe biden could do this i don't think so  so i'm thrilled to be in yuma arizona to proudly accept the endorsement of the national border patrol council that's a big deal and they are they are great friends of mine and we're building the wall we'll be up to next week we'll be up to 300 miles of incredible incredible and our numbers are the best we uh we are very uh tough at the border when people want to come in for our farmers etc etc we're not going to hurt our farmers but we've never had better numbers than we have right now and that's been helped because we're at a little bit over 280 miles right now we have never been helped like this wall there are two things in a thousand years you can come back two things will never you know with technology it's obsolete before you even put it in the box right but two things never get old wheels and walls right wheels in wall if you come back in a thousand years you'll say well we still have wheels and walls and that's the only thing you'll recognize the national border patrol council is the official union representing the incredible heroes of the united states border patrol they've been my friends from the beginning to every border agent and i just met some unbelievable people backstage these are great people and every family member here today you have earned the everlasting gratitude of our nation and i want to thank you very much thank you very much as you know better than anyone the survival of our nation is at stake in this election and i will tell you i never thought i'd say it because we had a great election we had a great election a little while ago four years ago i never thought i'd say anything could compete with 2016. this election that we're going into is the most important election in the history of our country  because we had crooked hillary but this is something these people are sick and we have to make sure that this radical left socialist and beyond because this is beyond socialism this isn't so this is beyond socialism that it doesn't happen or we will indeed have venezuela on steroids so we can't do it most important election november third get out and vote joe biden is the puppet of the radical left-wing movement that seeks the complete elimination of america's borders and boundaries they want to take the wall down they don't want to have borders they want to have sanctuary cities lots of bad things they want following orders from his boss i guess his new boss is bernie sanders can you believe this crazy bernie joe biden has pledged to abolish immigration enforcement suspend all removals provide free government health care and and you know they want to give it to illegal aliens you don't get it you don't get it restore catch and release shield violent criminal aliens this is what they want to do and give every illegal alien on the planet earth a free ticket to invent an asylum claim and gain automatic admission into our country we will have people coming into our country that never even thought of it before you get free education you get free health care why wouldn't they come let's go to america the biden plan would unleash a flood of illegal immigration like the world has never seen it's crazy biden's plan is the most radical extreme reckless dangerous and deadly immigration plan ever put forward by a major party candidate it must be defeated and it will be defeated on november 3rd it will be defeated  at last night's democrat convention which by the way got very bad ratings i have to tell you unity they talk about unity they want to bring unity and then you listen to michelle obama's speech which was obsolete by the time it got there she taped it no no she taped the speech it was obsolete she must have taped it about three weeks before she couldn't even look number one i'd like to tape maybe i'll tape i'm speaking next thursday maybe i'll tape it but i don't think that goes that's so much nicer to tape it you do it nice air condition room and she not only taped it but tell me when you hear a divisive speech you know they talk about me as being a divider i'm not a i bring people together we were bringing people together we were bringing people together like never before success was bringing everyone together and then we got hit with the china virus but we were bringing people together but one of the opening speakers last night said that america will go to hell if we don't have open borders think of that go to hell when a country doesn't have borders you don't have a country you don't have a control today a democrat speaker at the convention said we're talking about abolishing the police we're talking about abolishing ice we're talking about abolishing prisons biden's campaign has turned into a cult for open border and other zealots by the way they want to double and triple your taxes they want to increase regulations they want to spend very little money on our vets and they want after we took care of our vets better than anyone's 91 percent approval rating  and they want to spend much less on our military we've totally rebuilt two and a half trillion dollars we've totally rebuilt our military bernie sanders declared in his speech many of the ideas that just a few years ago were considered radical are now mainstream that's bernie sanders okay because joe look let's he doesn't know where he is but if he did he's been brought so far left that our country will not be the country that we know it it will have problems it will go down your stocks will be gone your 401ks will disappear and right now who has a 401k all right and then the rest of you many of you have stocks and you do it a different way that will go down 50 60 70 80 and if you held on like i said to do we went down a little while when we got hit with the virus now nasdaq just broke an all-time record snp just broke at all time records socialism is the mainstream of the biden campaign and it's not the mainstream of america remember i said we will never have a socialist country we will never have a socialist country  on november 3rd the people of arizona are great state we love arizona i won it last time by a lot  and i hear we're going to win it by even more this time don't forget last time i talked i said we're going to give you your tax cuts i gave him to you i said we're going to give you massive regulation cuts we're going to give you great everything we even did right to try medicine you know all about that we did things that i didn't even talk about it we did we did a thing called the space force you never heard me talking about i'm the only candidate that gave you more than i promised in the campaign it's true i'm the only one ever maybe ever  but we'll head to the polls and together we'll stop the left and win four more years in the white house we're joined today by some incredible people friends of mine great great people and i want to congratulate your governor because we had a spike and he knocked that spike out so fast i don't know are you sure you even had a spiked up doug ducey a great governor great man and somebody that won by about 16 or 17 points that's not so bad and i think you're more popular today what a job you've done thank you very much todd a friend of mine and somebody who's a great fighter pilot and i had a lot of people tell me she could really wield the warthog right the warthog she said i love that plane but she was a great great fighter pilot one of the best they were telling me this is a group and they do her very well a lot of friends you have and specifically she said could you extend that plane that's the best plane it never breaks down it just is a winner but martha mcsally is an extraordinary person and she's fighting for us and she's helping us and we have to bring her into the senate thank you marvel and she's running against a gentleman who is when you read what he's done when you read what he said about the second amendment and about all other things you're not going to want to vote for them you're not going to want to have them play with your second amendment i'll tell you what if i weren't president i don't believe doug you'd have a second amendment right now i don't think you'd have the pressure that was put on to get rid of it or to basically obliterate it make it so it's meaningless you will always have the right to bear arms you will always have a few friends of mine who are warriors paul garcia paul where's paul paul stand up will you paul goes thank you paul appreciate it great job you're doing these are warriors they really are when uh they went and they tried to make a play at your president they had to get through the house what were we 197 and nothing that's never happened before everybody came together the republicans came other than mitt romney one half a vote one half a brain another friend of mine an incredible fighter and somebody that loves this state and i'll tell you the freedom caucus right and we have a man named andy biggs here he's a fighter he's a fighter and he loves our vets and he loves our military and you love our second amendment right and we're not going to do anything with it they will destroy that second amendment just remember i said it but you're not going to have to worry about it because it's not going to happen a woman who really distinguished herself she became a star she became a star overnight there was nobody tougher there was nobody smarter there was nobody better than debbie lesko great job debbie thank you we want her on our side right fellas we got to have her on our side also thanks to arizona republican party chairman i knew this was going to happen i knew that she was going she never stops she never gives up kelly ward kelly thank you  thank you kelly great job you doing are we winning okay good i think we are that's what they say we better win if we don't win this country's in big trouble big trouble also a great friend of all of ours former state treasurer of arizona jeff dewitt thank you jeff  and a man who didn't choke under pressure i don't even know if he's here i think he might be here he never choked he kicked for 11 years you know what that is you ever see a golfer they miss a three footer they miss a three footer they can't they can't take it back they choke choke choke well kickers are the same right nfl kickers this guy lasted 11 years he's one of the best kickers ever nfl kicker jay feely where's jay where's jay he's here someplace where is he where jay what happened you couldn't get a good seat jay i remember the 61 yarder that was a heartbreaker right but the only thing is i'll bet you this man would stand only stand for our national anthem that's one thing that's one thing i can tell you and if they don't stand for our flag if they don't stand for our national anthem i turn off the game other than that i'd like to watch but i turn off again and by the way i thought they learned that lesson a little while ago i thought they learned that lesson two years ago but maybe not but they will they'll learn it again it'll take this time it'll go even faster for decades washington politicians like biden allowed an endless supply of illegal foreign labor to decimate american jobs and wages also the crime was incredible what happened they allowed criminal gangs to menace maine and terrorize innocent citizens they came in they would maim and terrorize and we have done something with our border patrol and by the way ice ice is great ice has taken out thousands and thousands of ms-13 and you don't want the job there's some tough people here none of you want the job it's a tough job but they like it and they're great patriots and they've done a fantastic job they ceded control of the border to the most dangerous and ruthless cartels on earth this is what would happen they have seeded and what we've done did you ever notice the caravans what happened to the crowd what happened debbie there are no more caravans what happened what happened to the caravans they don't come up anymore the caravans don't come up you know we were paying hundreds of millions of dollars to honduras guatemala el salvador hundreds of millions and i said well why are we doing that and they wouldn't take when we caught a murderer and we wanted to bring it back to one of those countries they wouldn't take them and they wouldn't take them under the obama administration so we got stuck with them because they'd fly in they'd say don't land your plane and i said something very simple i said that's okay we don't have to do that we're not going to pay you any more we stopped payment  it's amazing how that works doug right we stopped payment and they called they said we'd love to take him we'd be honored to thank so we take them back by the thousands by the thousands they let lethal poisonous drugs pour freely into our schools and our communities but no more it's not happening anymore the cruel and heartless portrayal of the american people ended the day i took the oath of office and now that we have more than half of the wall built and you notice they don't talk about the wall anymore they don't talk why don't you talk i went look at all those people back there that's called fake news fake news look at them it's the fake news they don't talk about the wall anymore see we won we got the wall it's going to be up to 300 next week and it's going to be finished very soon and as soon as we won all of a sudden they never talk about it but you know where i talk about it numbers the numbers are so good the numbers are so low we've never had numbers like this because that big portion of wall already built you don't get through it you can't get through it you can climb mount everest and you're gonna have an awful hard time getting over that sucker i stood up to the lobbyists everybody fought us the democrats everyone i fought the special interests i kept every single promise that i made and now i'm doing it with the drug companies i just created favored nations so if a nation buys it for less and they buy it for a fraction of what we pay the drug companies have to sell it to us for the same price and they're spending billion they're spending so much they're spending millions of dollars on advertising anytime you see an ad from a drug company they're rich the farmer it's called big pharma the number one lobbyist they spend millions and millions hundreds of millions of dollars online any time you see any time at all you see an ad by big farmer against me you know your drug prices are coming down that's what it is they're not happy and we're giving the rebate that creates tremendous wealth for the middleman the rebate it's going to the people now we're bringing the rebate and it's going to the people they are not happy i have a lot of people in that industry do not like me too much but you're going to get 50 you are going to get and the democrats would never do it biden would never do because he doesn't understand it but they would never do it they would in a million years they wouldn't do it it took a lot of guts to do it i had a lot of people a lot of good politicians go sir i don't think you should do and i wonder why you're saying that but we did it we're going to have drug prices reduced over a very short period of time by not two percent and last year they went down a little bit first time in 51 years at drug prices went down but a little bit we're going to have prices dropping 50 60 and even 70 percent gross about time and i'm proud to say that they've achieved the most secure border or border patrol in the history of the united states of america we now have the most secure border we've ever had and it's only going to get better and we want people to come in but we want them to come in through merit right and we want people that are going to come in are going to love our country not hate our country here in yuma arizona we've invested over 1.7 billion dollars and poured 180 000 cubic yards that's a lot of concrete to build 108 miles of powerful border world i know who's going to vote for me i don't know though i think i'm going to win yuma what do you think doug i think when i hear those numbers when we hear those numbers we're winning we're going to win you my big now you see it and you see what's going up and it's uh it's an incredible structure all capable all wired up for cameras for everything you can have technology is incredible in total i've already completely planned for the final execution we're going to have by the end of the year everything that we said is going to be built we may actually build some more in some soft areas that we've noticed over the last two years so we actually may put up some additional but we will have it completed everything we said by the end of the year and nobody thought that was possible and we've reduced illegal border crossings by 60 since this time last year and if we keep going at the rate it'll be about 85 in about two months so it's a great honor and you know what your community is a much safer you see the difference it's a much safer place to be but more important than these numbers is the fact that we've ended catch and release you know what cats are releasing these great men and women catch somebody maybe a murderer maybe a rapist maybe a trafficker they catch somebody take his name take his number and they release him into our country and they say come back in four years you have a trial no more we take them out we bring them out and nobody said that was possible because i couldn't have gotten it through the democrats because they don't like that so we have people coming in to this country some great people some really bad people too and i mean murderers and i mean rapists i mean really bad people and they don't get in and they don't get back when we bring them back to their country could be mexico also they don't come back under the obama biden i call it oh biden under the obiden administration our agents were ordered to ignore the law and release illegal aliens by the hundreds of thousands and by the way mark morgan where's the great mark morgan he's around here someplace mark morgan has been so incredible one of our executives he said we never built the cages those cages were built in 2014 by obama okay we never built the cages they were built by obama and the fake news is constantly saying that i built cages for children i didn't build them they were built in 2014. there was a headline in time magazine about the cage and somebody called in that built it they said he didn't build them we built that for the obama administration but they don't stop they keep calling it they say i built cages you'll see you'll hear it on one of the debates they'll say you built cages president i said no i didn't build cages that was built by obama under the trump administration if you cross our border illegally you are quickly apprehended and swiftly returned back home we are proudly defending the job safety and security of the american people which is what i promised to do nobody told me it was going to be this hard nobody told me i was going to have the democrats go totally crazy this was like a life and death war you know why they don't talk about it anymore because they know it's bad politics because they know having a wall they can't win that one so they just say let's forget it ever happened because we won and they say let's forget they don't want to talk about it that includes the millions of incredible hispanic americans who follow our laws uplift our community and protect our nation in uniform half of all border patrol agents are hispanic americans i was just with them and today i salute each and every one of those true american heroes and that's what they are and you know nobody understands the border better than hispanics they know what's good what's bad they don't want bad people coming into our country taking their jobs taking their homes causing crime hispanic americans are the people that are most in favor of what we're doing on the border can you because they understand it they understand it better than anybody with the help of these patriots we've stopped the rampant asylum fraud shut down the human smugglers and we're finding the drug dealers traffickers predators and we're throwing them to hell in jail or sending them back home ms-13 for the first time that you've ever seen this ms-13 is totally on the run many of its leaders are right now behind bars and we're deporting its members in record numbers we've never reported i can't believe how many there are  but if biden wins it will be a giant jailbreak for ms-13 and fishes criminal gangs china wants him to win so badly iran wants him to win so badly when we win i'll have a deal with iran within a month watch because they're dying to make a deal but that last hope that biden will win they will own our country china they will own our country we made such a great deal you know last week they had the largest order of corn in the history of our country the largest single order then they did it again you know why they're doing that because they know i'm angry because they know i don't care so much anymore we made a great trade deal but i don't care but it shows you how smart they are doug another with normal normal brain power that say well i'm not going to buy any more corn because i don't get a lot that's good and we'll just decouple thank you very much but they go the opposite they buy so much good record numbers soybeans record numbers the biggest last week biggest ever 42 percent of our farmers crop is now china over the last little while you know why because they don't want bad things to happen that's why so they're very smart when i have every farmer in the country calling and saying you know please don't do anything they're very very smart but we can never forget what china did to this country and did to the world the historic achievements that i've discussed today are only a slim fraction of the extraordinary accomplishment that we've all done together in the last four years here's just a short list of our landmarks really they are landmarks true landmarks we instituted a national security travel ban on the world's most dangerous regions including jihadist regions keeping terrorists and extremists out of our country everyone said oh that's so bad remember when they said oh that's so bad i don't think it's so bad at all we won the travel ban the fake news said we didn't because we lost in the lower court we lost in the second court and we won in the supreme court so they said we lost can you believe they said we lost debbie because we lost the first two but we won in the supreme court so they said they lost i guess technically they're right we lost what it didn't matter but we haven't we have a great travel ban now for countries that are not countries where we don't want the people coming in over the last three years ice officers have made over 380 000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of over 145 000 assaults 40 000 sex crimes and 5 800 murders  over the last three years border patrol and ice have seized over 2 million pounds of fentanyl heroin meth and other deadly narcotics and you see it all the time  we stripped federal grant funding from deadly sanctuary cities they want to have a sanctuary city not going to be like the old days we cancelled the lawless policies of the previous administration and empowered border agents and ice officers to do their jobs and proudly enforce the laws of the united states of america we removed 20 000 gang members including 4 500 ms-13 that's pretty good  who would ever think there's that many i entered into three landmark agreements with honduras and el salvador and guatemala to end the abuse of the asylum system we cut down that payment that i was talking about substantially and they're still very happy and they are working with us very well and that includes mexico right now mexico has 27 000 of their soldiers on our southern border helping us to guard our southern border  and we're giving you the tools to do the job that you signed up for that's what we've done i entered into a historic partnership with mexico known as the migrant protection protocols to safely return asylum seekers to mexico while awaiting hearings in the united states you know about that we had to have them in the united states if we captured if we had to keep from here i said no no we don't want them here we want them outside we got sued all over the place that we won so now they don't come into the united states they can wait outside  for the first time ever the united states is now exercising our full legal authority to expedited removal we don't have to go through years and years of litigation you need perry mason to try and when we ended the obama-biden policy of giving work permits to newly arriving illegal aliens think of that one we established the national vetting center the most advanced visa screening system anywhere in the world we know so much about the people coming in we know the good and we know the bad we've suspended refugee resettlements from the world's most dangerous regions because nothing is more important than keeping america safe to me it's number one  we've made historic progress to crack down on visa overseas you know all about that they overstay for years they say maybe a night maybe two nights well five years later you catch them nope we ended it we issued strict sanctions on countries that failed to take back their own criminals we have many countries beyond the four that i mentioned the three plus one many countries they all take them back now before they weren't taken aback at all the last administration simply released these criminals we're making sure they go home and we're making sure they stay home we don't want them we issued regulations to stop the horrible practice of birth tourism do you know what that is right anchor babies you know that right anchor babies have a baby in our country and you stay for the rest of your life congratulations you're a citizen for 90 years and then you bring in your family you bring in your family right no no good i implemented a historic public charge regulation to finally and fully enforce the federal requirement that newcomers to our country must be financially self-sufficient they cannot accept welfare for at least five years to protect our country and our agents during the pandemic my administration took immediate action to ensure the safe and rapid return of all illegal aliens we brought them back we have very few in our country now we brought them back can you believe it to protect u.s workers i suspended the entry of low-wage workers that threaten all of your jobs american jobs and we're finalizing the new h-1b regulations to permanently end the displacement of u.s workers in january after the china vira after the outbreak after the outbreak the china virus outbreak it came from wuhan right i swiftly implemented a travel ban on china and i was criticized biden opposed the ban he said i opposed the ban he had no idea what the hell he was doing why do you oppose it joe i don't know they told me to say that if we had listened to sleepy joe biden hundreds of thousands of additional american lives would have been lost we did a good thing that was in january i posted very early a month later pelosi and all these people said oh no let people come in we can't we imposed it because china was heavily infected then i imposed it in europe also heavily infected with italy and france and spain compare our achievements with the insane and lethal policies that biden and bernie sanders want the entire biden harris how about her she a great one is she been by the way you talk about guns she wants no second amendment she wants to raise your taxes to a level you'll be paying your government back for a long time she is not the right pick but she was my number one draft pick they asked me that what do you think i said i'm very happy they thought i was happy they thought i was happy for him no i was happy for me the biden harris plan is a step-by-step recipe for abolishing america's borders in the biden bernie manifesto joe biden promises to restore and expand catch and release across the entire u.s border you believe that we just got rid of it free all illegal aliens from federal detention and closed detention facilities this would make removing illegal aliens totally impossible and you would have murderers killers rapists in your midst i don't think so immediately suspend all removals triggering a tidal wave of really a flood if you think a flood all across our border end prosecution of illegal border crosses ensuring that illegal aliens will repeatedly re-enter the country over and over again and terminate all protections we have enacted against asylum fraud they want to do things that nobody thought was even possible to contemplate now this is all simple and i really respect because so far i've only seen about four or five people go down because it is hot in here but i will tell you this i it's 120. you know what i said before think of yourself at a great spa great sauna where it's 120 degrees and we have to pay a lot of money to be there you have to pay a lot of money getting off the border getting off illegal protection all of that we are going to lower your taxes further we gave you the biggest tax increase in the history of the biggest tax decrease in the history of our country we decreased your taxes more than anybody has ever done and we're doing more because that's going to spell growth and that's what happened companies are moving in like nobody has seen before so we're doing that massive additional regulation cuts we've cut regulations more than any president in the history of our country whether it's four years eight years or in one case more i told you already our military is the best it's ever been it's got 2.5 trillion dollars worth of new beautiful jets and equipment and rockets and everything hopefully we never have to use it and our nuclear arsenal and hopefully hopefully we never have to even look at it our nuclear arsenal is at a level that it's never ever been before and we have to have it there but we never want to use it so we have done things not only on the border the border is one element and to me it's very important something that they always say about a president the most important thing a president can do is the appointment of federal judges and supreme court justices so by the end of our not my our first term we will have appointed 300 federal judges and appeals court judges and two supreme court justices and when it comes to second amendment when it comes to life when it comes to a lot of things that you people live for if you don't have the supreme court and if you don't have the courts on your side you can forget it and the next president i think will pick two three or even four justices of the supreme court they can be on the court for 40 to 50 years you pick them young they could be on there for 40 to 50 years this is going to be the most consequential presidency this is going to be the most important and i never thought i'd say it because of what happened four years ago this is going to be the most important election of your life so i just want to  thank you so i just want to say stay healthy stay sharp be careful be very careful go out and work like hell we need ev
eggs of minnesota to the hills of tennessee across the plains of texas from sea to shining sea from detroit down to houston and new york to l.a where there's pride in every american heart and it's time we stand and save thank you very much this is really great we love this state we won this state i don't know if you know what's going on outside but that's right lou that's as many people as you could possibly have all the way back how did you get in that's my question i know you're special friends of a group of people that have done a really good job and i want to thank you very much for being here but pennsylvania's been very important to me i went to school in pennsylvania as you know college and i love it please sit down and by the time i finish i'm gonna have a nice sunburn right here this is good where's my sunblock but i want to thank everybody in 75 days we're going to win this state we're going to win four more years they've had us under siege and we beat them and we beat them and we keep beating them but i'll tell you you've never seen anything no president should have to go through what we've gone through no president should never happen and i watched president obama last night and i watched him talking about everything and i had to put it out i said yeah but he spied in our campaign and he got caught you know that's about as bad a thing as you can imagine if that happened to another campaign on the other side it have had 25 people in jail for many years already many many years it's a disgrace but in three years and what we've done in just a short period of time there's been no administration that's accomplished what we've accomplished and that's despite pandemics and despite all of the opposition and all of the witch hunts the phony witch hunts no administration has done what we've done we've secured our borders brought back our manufacturing jobs we built our military wiped out the isis caliphate 100 killed our terrorist enemies achieved american energy independence and guess what we're just getting started that's a just a small part of it that's a that's a small part of it at stake in this election is the survi and you know this you know it and i mean it and i've never met it more at stake in this election is the survival of our nation it's true because we're dealing with crazy people on the other side they've gone totally stone cold crazy you know you look at hillary she was a lot smarter than joe but i'll tell you there was a certain sense of sanity four years ago these people have gone insane and their radical left and you look at some of the things happening in these democrat-run cities which we could solve in two minutes all they have to do is call us right our great ex-congressman all they have to do is and thank you for being here but all they have to do is call us we'll be in there in two minutes and we'll take care of the problem joe biden is a puppet of the radical left movement that seeks to destroy the american way of life they don't understand and probably when it happened they'd say what did we ever do joe biden has pledged to hike your taxes by four trillion dollars in the largest tax hike in history and they're going to waste the money on the green new deals the green new deal you know what you get out of that nothing nothing except debt and death they want to eviscerate the second amendment they want to take away your guns they want to take away your guns well you remember that just that one point alone and they want to take away your guns so who's going to vote for that i mean we want our second amendment i've held it strong and you think it was easy i've held it totally strong give free health care to illegal aliens you don't get free health care expand deadly sanctuary cities force taxpayers to subsidize late term abortion shut down the energy fields of pennsylvania they want to shut them down no fossil fuel no fossil fuel texas isn't too happy either go to texas i just left texas a little while ago two weeks i said they don't want energy they don't want guns and they don't want religion guy stands up says not going to win texas but you have the same thing because you do be you're a big fracking state you want to see your taxes go up stop fracking doesn't hurt you at all fracking they want to throw up windmills that are going to ruin your houses i mean you know put up a big windmill you walk out your door you see this big monster churning but even that they don't want to do i don't think they want to do anything i think they want to close your businesses but just remember second amendment they're going to take it away as sure as you're sitting or standing they're going to take it away from you the second amendment don't let it happen close down charter schools eliminate school choice so important to abolish the suburbs they want to put low-income housing in the suburbs so the american dream and by the way we have a lot of minority groups that live in the suburbs african-american asian-american hispanic-american all did phenomenally last year with jobs best jobs we've ever had in the history of our country best economy we've ever had  but they're a big part of the suburbs and they want to put low-income housing on the suburbs at a level that they've never done it before and it's been a very look this has been going on for 20 years i terminated the regulation that did that they said well we can change i said no let's terminate it people have to aspire to go there they want to aspire to live in the suburbs they want to abolish cash bail releasing 400 000 criminals onto our streets think of no no more cash bill look at what happened in new york cuomo ended cash bail cuomo that wasn't even de blasio that it was cuomo the governor he ended it in new york and now the crime rate has gone through the roof the speaker at biden's convention proudly declared we're talking about abolishing the police we're talking about abolishing ice and we're talking about abolishing prisons and that's the only thing they're not abolishing are taxes because your taxes are going to go up at a level that you've never even heard of before if you want a vision of your life under biden presidency think of the smoldering ruins in minneapolis the violent anarchy of portland the blood-stained sidewalks of chicago and imagine the mayhem coming to your town and every single town in america you're not going to have law and order do you notice and i shouldn't say it because i'll put it in his speech if he can read it which i doubt but they'll put it in there tonight i shouldn't say it because he's going to speak later should have a good audience people are going to find out what the hell's going on i see he hasn't answered a question since they just said i just see it on the newscast since july 17th hasn't taken a question from the fake news back there no think of it i take about 100 questions a day these people you know it's one thing i've learned the uh the people heading these other countries whether it's president xi of china putin of russia erdogan turkey any of them kim jong-un north korea remember we're going to be in war with north korea remember it's going to be a war right congressman there's going to be a war if trump said we're going to have a war no that it would have been a war if yet hillary clinton would have been a war if obama were allowed to stay any longer he thought there was going to be a well where's the war i don't see the war maybe things happen you don't know but there's been no war nobody killed you would have lost 25 30 million people they don't say that they say 100 000 people no no seoul is 32 million people and it's right next to the cannon fire and uh we have a good relationship with him i have a good relationship with him you know when i say that isn't that terrible they say no it's not terrible it's great it's great i have a relationship president obama said when i sat down that first meeting right in the white house he said it was the biggest problem we had in north korea and uh he would have had a big problem would have been a hell of a war tell you right now you'd probably be in that war right now so when i say that we got along and we've met everyone says oh that's so terrible no it's a good thing it's a good thing not a bad thing it's a good thing does it mean bad things don't happen but it's a good thing there's only one thing standing between your family and the radical left-wing mob and that's your vote this november this is a very important i feel like i'm a wall you know we built the wall on the southern border we're gonna have 300 miles by two weeks from now even less 300 miles  and by the end of the year we'll be up to almost 500 miles and then we're going to go on a little bit further some areas that are loose a little bit loose we found out i'm going to put a little bit more about 536 miles going up at a record clip that's doing phenomenally well if you want mobs and criminals you got to vote democrat look because that's what it's about it's they don't talk about law and order now i'm bringing it up now but if they haven't i haven't seen anybody get up i got just the other day endorsed by all the sheriffs of florida all the law enforcement i got endorsed i got endorsed by pennsylvania i got endorsed by texas by ohio i mean i think everybody i don't know how can you endorse somebody else how can how could law enforcement endorse somebody else we gave all of our all of our ex-army equipment you know we have tremendous surplus equipment and it was sitting in warehouses all over the united states hundreds of millions of dollars i distributed it to the police whereas biden and obama they didn't want to do that because they said no no no it makes the police look too strong i want the police to look strong you've got to look strong and a lot of it was protective equipment if you want jobs and you want a lot of police and you want a lack of crime you know if you take away new york and chicago and some of these terrible cities that you see about you know with a crime the crime is so bad i left new york four years ago and i could see because he's a terrible mayor i could see there were things that were happening that were bad he's no rudy giuliani i can tell you that but i could see things were happening but the last six months seven months it just exploded it's incredible crime up 368 percent 368 it's crazy it's crazy but if you want law and order and i can say sometimes they'll say sir say it gently people want to hear gently they want say it gently don't say law and order say if you'd like law and order and safety no i can't do that if you want law and order you gotta have law and order you can't have what's happening in portland did you see the kid get whacked the other day just whacked like he was a piece of garbage i mean who could take it we don't want that and pretty soon we're going to have to send in our people because you know we're supposed to wait till requests i don't know if they're embarrassed or what but these democrat cities they're out of control they have none look at seattle where she said no we want a summer of love i mean this woman is crazy and they would have never taken back seattle except they knew we were going in the next day that's the only reason they even did it so tonight we have slo judo will speak at the democrat convention and i'm sure that he'll just knock him dead and he'll remind us that he was born in scranton but you know he left like 70 years ago right he left a long time ago he wanted one you know i view it differently he'd say he was born here but he left that he was like eight nine or ten so he left 68 years ago he left a long time ago so i view it differently he wasn't born here he abandoned scranton okay his family had something to do with that you know his parents but he loves grant i mean he keeps talking about i was born in screen i lived in scandinavia for a few years and then he left for another state you know the state but the scranton stuff that's why i figured i'd come here and explain to you one thing but i think you people know it better than i do he left he abandoned pennsylvania he abandoned swent he was here for a short period of time and he didn't even know it and today it's amazing it goes around in a circle he still doesn't know it okay but he spent the last half century in washington selling out our country and ripping off our jobs and letting other countries steal our jobs mexico china all of them just stealing our jobs he's been there for 47 years and now he's going to come in and make a change i don't think so his son walked out with 1.5 billion dollars to manage that's millions of dollars a year and the sun didn't even have a job before that and i asked the wall street people tell me is that possible smartest people top people on wall street they say can't happen it can't happen the smartest people the people that do get money from every country from everybody they say can't happen he walked out of there in 10 minutes with 1.5 billion dollars he explained that one right and then if they want to look at him nobody looks at him nobody looks at ukraine he gets 83 000 a month and a three million dollar upfront payment because of his great expertise and energy but he had none and he even admitted no i don't know anything about energy but he goes on to an energy company gets millions of dollars 83 it's actually double that because it was him and some guy that knew less than he did and is that okay yeah is it okay when joe biden goes and says a billion dollars you're not getting it unless you get rid of those prosecutors you talk about quid pro quo right that's your quid broke row and they did quid pro quo right and they did they got rid of the prosecutors and then he's called he says now you're getting your money okay figure this how about if that's a republican doing that what happens to that republican it's over it's a disgrace but it's changing slowly too slowly as far as i'm concerned joe biden is no friend of pennsylvania he's actually for the reasons we just said he's your worst nightmare biden supported every single globalist attack on pennsylvania workers nafta china's entry into the world trade organization which built china into a power tpp korea the horrible ridiculous paris climate accord which stripped our nation of its energy and the so-called clean power plan the only good thing about it was the name it was a horrible unfair deal horrible for you and horrible for pennsylvania they want to take your power away you know what your power is your power is the billions of dollars you make on going deep into the earth and taking out what you have to take out everything you want from fracking you you don't realize how big a fracking state does anybody know how big fracking is you're not you're not going to be allowed to frack anymore it's not going to be uh no oil no nothing no oil no gas no nothing just think of that what would happen is you well first of all many of you i guess six hundred thousand six hundred and seventy thousand lose their jobs no money no oil higher taxes your stock market would crash if they get in beyond fracking if they get in you'll have your 401ks which you're setting records by the way stock market just hit a new high and don't forget we've been going through this horrible plague from china it just hit a new high so think of that it's incredible but your 401ks how many people have 401ks here good that's a lot that's a lot how about if they went down to like 10 of what they are now because that can happen that can happen and it will happen if if we're stupid and we don't go out and vote and secure your ballot absentee ballots are good but the stuff where they take millions and millions of ballots and send them all over the place we'll grab it and we'll just put them in a big pile there everyone grab it it's a disgrace even common sense tells you that look at new york look at what happened in new jersey look at what happened in virginia look at what happened i won't go through the details you know the story they have no control whatsoever in new jersey 20 percent of the ballots were defective fraudulent 20 and that's because they did a good job okay so uh this is just a way they're trying to steal the election and everybody knows that because the only way they're gonna win is by a rigged election i really believe that i saw the crowd outside for every sign we had for trump pence every single sign i never i mean you know but and that's not that atypical in texas we had people on the highways on the roadways we're driving to some oil well where we gave a speech but between it was 20 minute drive between the plane and that oil well there were tens of thousands of people and they had the signs trump and trump pence and flags american flags you know when the other side does show up which is rarely they never have an american flag i can always tell if there's a group of people they never you'd never see an american flag the fake news would tell you that but you never see but they don't put it down they'll tell you that personally but they won't write it but you never see an american flag it's an amazing thing but if you look outside today is it a hundred to one two hundred to one and then you'll read tomorrow that biden was well represented he wasn't well there were hardly anybody there every once in a while see a bite not be waving to the people i see a bite and i'd say well i waved to her anyway who cares no but was it a hundred to one i mean it's just massive and you'll read tomorrow that he had a massive crowd also pennsylvania lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs after nafta and china's entry into the wto and that was a vote and courtesy of sleepy joe biden looked american labor into the eyes it took their dues their union endorsements and their votes the unions i mean the unions have to be more reasonable they have to be more reasonable and we love the unions we love non-union we love i've had it all you know i built every building i built in new york was with unions and unions are fine you know a lot of republicans don't want me to say that but i'll tell you unions are fine tell them to keep their dues down please but they're fine and you have unions here you have non-unions but what i talk about is the worker they treated our workers horribly we lost our jobs to foreign lands our workers got fired whether they were in the unions or not then he sold out and he passed the cadillac tax you know what that is on union healthcare plans attacked their energy jobs and sent their factories to china and now he's back begging for their votes and you know people it's like a custom democrats except with me i came in i got so many union votes i get far more i mean you look at you've seen it i've a couple of people either lost their job or came very close that were unbeatable because they led a charge for the democrats for crooked hillary last time they let a charge and the the people in the union didn't want that they didn't want hillary they wanted trump and we had union revolts we call them they revolted but these guys right here are you all union people i can tell are you union it's good right it's fine that's fine look at that you get a hand certain parts of the country they wouldn't be as happy but that's okay right and it's great but they were not happy and you know what was happening they were not happy when the bosses got endorsed by the democrats american labor will vote for trump pence in 2020 they're all saying that and this area is going to be an incredible area this used to be all democrat until i came along until i came along this was democrat this was heavily union it was democrat it was everything but they like trump and i'm gonna never let you down and they will let you down they will let you down first of all the country will be let down because the country you will see a crash like you've never seen before and as good as those stock market numbers are there's a headwind the head one is that if he won the market's gonna crash the green new deal all of the different things socialized medicine that's what they want it's socialized medicine no doctor no plan obama lied about it 28 times remember he said you can keep your doctor you can keep your plan it wasn't true 28 different times they have them for the last four years we've been reversing biden's betrayals and delivering historic wins for the people of pennsylvania your state lost over 50 000 manufacturing jobs when biden was vice president in my first three years pennsylvania gained 14 000 jobs manufacturing and going up at a level that nobody's ever seen before we'll catch all of those jobs that were lost they said manufacturing jobs will never come back remember you need a magic wand where's the magic wand well we have the magic one my first week in office i withdrew from the trans-pacific partnership it would have been totally destructive to your jobs it would have been a horror show i withdrew from the one-sided paris climate accord which would have cost us so many billions of dollars and all it would have done is made the competition even tougher all over the world i believe it was designed to hurt the united states and to get jobs away from us and companies i stood up to china's rampant cheating plunder and theft i repealed that horrible tax so many taxes how many taxes did i repeal you know i'm getting a list of them now i'll have it for you for the next meeting because i'll be back to pennsylvania that i promise and i'm standing up to the special interests and the big farmer weeks ago i signed four historic directives to dramatically reduce the cost of prescription drugs think of it you know what i did i signed i signed as you know and as you've seen i guess but other countries have sometimes 10 percent of what we pay for the same exact pill same drug same prescription drug and i signed a deal that we get that's not signed by the drug companies they hate it they're taking advertising whenever you see bad ads on me from drug companies just remember one thing that means your prices are coming down that means your prices but it was it's called favored nations favored nations we were the least favorite nation in the whole world we paid the highest price so i signed if germany as an example pays 10 cents for a pill and we pay three dollars for the exact same pill we pay 10 cents also now what means is they're going to go up we're going to come way down you could we could drop drug prices by 50 60 or 70 percent at a level that has made them very angry and rebates too i ended rebates rebates go to you nobody else would have done that they could have done that a long time ago biden could have done it he didn't know what it meant but i will tell you most people do know what but they can't do it because big pharma is the most powerful group and i guess they say number one is it number one mr cup but you didn't take any money from big pharma right good i'll bet you didn't uh i'll bet you didn't my man i ended the nafta disaster and i signed usmca into law usmc is phenomenal and it's going to keep your companies from moving to mexico and other places after years of building up other nations we're finally building up our nation and we are finally doing something that i've been talking about for years we are finally putting america first and i've done that right from the beginning we're honored to be joined today by some incredible warriors that were really fantastic to me and friends of mine but they really fight these pennsylvania people are fighters in case you haven't noticed representative scott perry scott where scott thank you scott great job scott the warriors lloyd smucker lloyd thank you thank you lord john joyce john thank you great job great job and a friend of mine and a great great man he would have been here forever if he decided to but he decided maybe it was time to do something else but uh this was a fighter like no other fighter and those three other gentlemen will attest right our friend lou barletta lou and they're shouting i'm saying this with the media they're shouting lou they're not booing you know they'll say he stood up and he got booed horribly it was a horrible embarrassing no that's what they do they're fake thanks also to our congressional candidates jim bognett jim oh look at him i've heard good things jim is it easy out there on the stump oh good good and you're gonna win jim you're gonna win and lisa sheller lisa thank you very much great job i hear you two are doing really good if you have any problems call lou he'll help you let me also thank my campaign state chairwoman bernie comfort where are you thank you very much bernie thank you bernie great job you're doing how we doing in pennsylvania okay yeah i think so i think so we don't they did a lot of manipulation also a friend of mine for a long time and a great friend of his father and his maybe his grandfather i don't even i hate to say that because it makes me sound a little bit older than i feel i feel young state gop chairman lawrence tabis what a great family i miss dan tabis you know that dan tabis what a great man he was i don't know if you know him but he started out with about two cents and he ended up being a rich man and he employed a lot of people and he was a real friend of mine he didn't like many people that was long before i ran for politics he didn't like many people but he liked trump right people would go he was a rough guy people would go up to him and say hi dan how you doing he became a very successful guy and he'd look out at me and say i don't want to talk to anybody i just want to talk to trump i like that kind of a guy right but he was a fantastic man actually he's a good man before the china virus invaded our shores we built the greatest economy in history nothing even close we added 7 million jobs nationwide including 209 000 new jobs in pennsylvania by the way in the last three months we ha we right bernie over nine million jobs an all-time record this is now during and hopefully closing moments of the pandemic you notice how they at any time there's a good country they like to compare because we've done an incredible job you look at our mortality rates you look at all the things but they like to compare us to others so they they were talking about new zealand new zealand it's over it's ultra for new zealand everything's gone they're beautiful they had a massive breakout yesterday south korea it's over it's over big breakout yesterday you know it's a tough it's a tough deal we've done a great job we're a big big country and you know maybe this is popular to say maybe it's not i don't care because based on the crowd outside it looks to me like we're going to win this thing but i think by a by the way buy a lot but your governor has you in a shutdown like few what's going on what's going how did they all get out there and they were not socially distant i can tell you we'll have to on the way back they'll still be there because they're incredible people but what is he doing he's got you in a shutdown still shut down wolf he can't do this he's going to destroy your soul you know what happens is depression anxiety problems with family members drugs heart attacks obesity i mean what is he doing it's more dangerous than the virus he's got to open this state up you know when he's going to open it up no i know what he's doing because a lot of them are doing it doing it in the great state of north carolina right they're doing it in north carolina but they're doing it in a lot of different areas but they've got to open this state up and you have to do it right this this wonderful incredible right i would call it a commonwealth do you have a mind if they call it a state no call it commonwealth whatever the hell you want to open it up and what is he doing what is he doing it's very so the commonwealth of pennsylvania we're going to get it open and i know when he's going to do it you know what it is november 4th november 4th he's going to say well we're going to open it up then your results are no better than other states by the way it's not like oh gee this is great it's uh michigan has it closed down and north carolina has a close down and this uh commonwealth has a close down it's really uh it's a very sad thing to see and the results are not good the results it's not like oh this is wonderful the results in some of these places is worse than those that are open and you know you have other states up i mean if you look at the country it's really we have states we're thriving we're thriving and there's no shutdown it's enough we shut it down because we had to we didn't know anything about what was happening we shut it down we learned a lot protect our seniors etc etc you've all heard it but we learned a lot that we opened it up and now we have a big v remember they said the v will never happen we have a big beautiful v we enacted the largest financial relief package in american history and through the paycheck protection program we saved nearly 2 million pennsylvania jobs we've also delivered nearly that's right 2 million jobs we delivered nearly 11 billion dollars in direct support to pennsylvania families and over the past three months we've gained over 9 million jobs it's uh nobody can even believe the numbers and watch the numbers will get better and better because we're opening up and frankly the democrats should do it they should do what's right for the country they know they should open wolfe knows he should open he knows that and how about his uh how about his person with his with the with her mother right with her mother where the mother was protected but the other people weren't you had a massive number of deaths in nursing homes but 95 year old mother as i read and i said well that person will be gone very quickly and that person is still there i would say that's something if somebody ever wants to run for the governor of pennsylvania that would be something good to use so they took the mother out of harm's way and then moved her back when everything was okay and nobody says anything about it and there's no firing retail spending is now at an all-time high who would have believed that auto production has gained 28 percent biden would terminate this unprecedented recovery he wants to impose a permanent lockdown combined with a socialist takeover of the u.s economy did you hear him the other day lock it down he wants to lock it down so everything that we've gained over the last number of months he wants to lock it down no we're doing good florida is going down substantially arizona done a great job in arizona texas going down california's going down it opened these states up and everybody wants to practice good hygiene all of the different things do the masks i mean it's not going to hurt do them do them if you feel it do them but these things these places have to be opened up but november 4th you'll open don't worry about it but that's a long time from now if you think about it right that's a long time from now in biden's policy manifesto written with socialist bernie sanders biden pledges to quickly outlaw american oil he's going to outlaw american oil coal american call he's going to outlaw natural gas which is really an amazing form of energy it clean by mandating net zero carbon emissions from all homes and buildings within nine years and from all power plants by 2035 so he wants to basically get rid of all fossil fuels and you know i know everything about energy i know so much about energy our new forms of alternative energy just aren't powerful enough to power these massive plants and all of the things that are creating all of these jobs and all of this wealth for your state and for the country this week in california there were rolling blackouts because the radical democrats have mandated impossible restrictions on energy production and i see again the forest fires are starting starting again in california i said you got to clean your floors you got to clean your forests they have many many years of leaves and broken trees and they're like like so flammable you touch them it goes up i've been telling them this now for three years but they don't want to listen the environment the environment but they have massive fires again in california maybe we're just going to have to make them pay for it because they don't listen to us we say you got to get rid of the leaves you got to get rid of the debris you got to get rid of the fallen trees you know when a tree falls after 13 to 14 months it becomes extremely dry 
 so thank you pennsylvania very much i'm thrilled to be in latrobe the home of the late great my friend arnold palmer what a great guy he was what a great guy thank you very much 61 days from now we're going to win the commonwealth of pennsylvania and we are going to win four more years in the white house  joe biden wants to surrender your jobs to china you know that his son walked out with a lot of money for doing nothing right he wants to surrender your nation to the radical left-wing mob he's trying to change now you know he's saying that's not working because we're going up and he's dropping like a rocking water  and before the china virus this election was over now i had to go back to work and we've done a great job on it we don't get the credit we don't get the crap we made a lot of governors look very good but i will keep you jobs in america and i'll bring riders looters violent extremists anarchists we will bring them to justice that's what we're doing right now we have over 400 right now under arrest these are bad people over the last three and a half years we've secured america's borders fixed our broken trade deals rebuilt the united states military obliterated the isis caliphate 100 percent secured american energy independence and built the single greatest economy in the history of the world and now we're going to do it again have to do it again again got to do it again and it's happening you see what's happening job numbers retail sale numbers are all at records it's happened it's happening very fast it's actually happening in a super v not a v it's a super v and you'll see that and big numbers are coming out and have come out and uh just watch your set or watch your newspaper read your newspaper you're seeing numbers that congressmen we haven't seen those numbers ever before actually we've never seen them and by the way we have record stock markets we have record everything you're going to have you're going to have an incredible economic year next year your stocks are going up your 401ks are through the roof had a little pause today people wanted to take some profits and probably somebody said something stupid along the way but uh the stock market's at record levels think of it in the hopefully rounding the turn on the pandemic we're rounding that turn and vaccines are coming along great you know that the job that they've done the doctors everybody else we're years ahead of schedule anybody else as president you wouldn't be talking about vaccines for two or three years from now i'll tell you right now that i can tell you biden will never be able to protect your jobs or your family he is a puppet of the socialists marxists and the cop-hating extremists and they are cop-hating and we love our law enforcement we love our life and by the way we have i don't know if you saw this if there's any way of you seeing it we have thousands of people behind this hangar thousands and we're trying to get them in and i'd love to get them in i mean it's an airport let them go to the runways okay  let them in we have i mean literally there we landed i actually thought that was the crowd you know we're doing the hanger thing now because the arenas can't do it because of the pandemic for a while a little while but in certain ways i like this better i don't have to travel i get off the plane i make a speech i get the hell out of here naughties are great you remember the last days before the campaign i'd do a lot of them a day get off that plane it was a little different plan it was black and white instead of the blue and white but we had some time and that was an important that was an important day and that was an important year 2016 but i will tell you the election that we have coming up is the single most important election in the history of this country and we had a level of enthusiasm i mean even look today with all going on look at look at the kind of crowds we have but we had record enthusiasm in 2016. by the way was that the greatest evening ever november and now it's going to be november 3rd and we'll keep it going and we'll get it all like a tree you move that tree it takes a little while to plant your tax cuts they're going to raise your taxes they're going to take away your guns it's really if you look and you know they'll criticize me for saying this the fake news media which is back there with their fake with their fake polls the same as leisure we could just put it all on tape the fake poles the fake everything the fake you know they're called suppression poles they're meant to make you depressed are you depressed you don't look depressed  the real numbers are we have the real numbers we're leading everywhere we are leading everywhere i'll tell you i think  i think we're way ahead of what we were four years ago and there's far more enthusiasm our base is bigger it's stronger and we've done the greatest job again if we didn't get hit by the plague from china this thing we wouldn't have even between us i would have canceled mr congressman most of the rallies i wouldn't have needed a rally that's a little bit unfair but that's okay that's what china has done to our nation they've screwed us for a long time on a lot of different ways never has anybody ripped off our nation like china and i've taken in billions and billions of dollars we never we never took in 10 cents from china and i gave 28 billion right 28 billion to the farmers because they were targeted unfairly by china and our farmers are very unhappy i don't think we have too many farmers in this wonderful pennsylvania town i know we have a lot of boilermakers over there we got a lot of boilermakers i'll be talking about them look at those guys nobody going to mess with them i'll tell you we're going to be talking about them in a minute but for the entire summer biden was silent as far left rioters viciously attacked law enforcement and democrat-run cities all burned down businesses terrorized civilians and just recently marched through the streets chanting death to america this is what we have death to america and by the way we could end it like immediately you saw what we did in wisconsin it ended took a while for the governor you know they have to ask us in it's like otherwise uh we have to do something much bigger and it's totally unnecessary the national guard is fantastic i went to see him two days ago biden went there today there was nobody there there was nobody there he was a little late i was going to say hey listen we ended that problem but we could end it in portland wise guys in portland anarchists they're agitators they're looters i'll tell you we could end it in portland in a half an hour we did it in seattle we told them we're coming in you either ended or were coming in congressman we were going in the next day we're all set i was actually disappointed to be honest they ended it in seattle they took over 20 of the city do you believe this and the mayor said no it's going to be a summer of love these people are crazy so we we end them very quickly we end them very quickly and now what we're doing is we're holding back funds for cities that don't know what they're doing where they allow crime to run rampant and we put a 10-year prison sentence on anybody that knocks down a statue i took out an old ordinance a very old one because today in congress you don't get things like that today they think that you should just uh have no cash bail you know they do the no cash bail you kill somebody there's no bail don't worry about it go out but i took out an old ordinance i gave a new executive order it says 10 years in prison and amazingly  amazingly that was like three and a half months ago and they were having a big march on washington march elsewhere and amazingly that was the end of the statues coming down no statues and we're actually prosecuting people for having done it we made it retroactive to the beginning terrible and by the way the state statutes and monuments they have to do the same thing it's real easy but the rioters that want biden to win they want him to win because their agenda isn't a agenda it's what they want it's the craziest thing i've ever seen they both want to cut funding for police they want to end that cash bail they want to hire far left prosecutors and judges and let the criminals run wild the radical left district attorney in portland mike schmidt his name is has released hundreds of rioters and announced that anyone arrested for interfering with police officers disorderly conduct criminal trespass rioting and other offenses will not be prosecuted under any circumstance oh it's worse it's worse you have somebody in philadelphia who's worse right worse in his manifesto with bernie sanders that's what it is biden agreed to all these things you know you notice now no no i never said about frackie and i never said if you don't do fracking in pennsylvania 900 000 jobs and your energy bills will triple other than that i don't think you should have it okay no but he said in the manifesto plus he said many times you know we put on the clip yesterday worry no fracking know this know that i mean no guns how about guns no guns no second amendment biden has pledged to appoint prosecutors who extend these insane far left policies nationwide that's what he's done that's called the manifesto he agreed to all this stuff the craziest thing you know you're supposed to bring it to the right he actually brought it further left bernie never dreamt that this was possible crazy bernie you know crazy bernie you know i had a lot of his voters came to come to me four years ago a big percentage you know why because i agree with him and he agrees with with me on one thing trade the trade because he knew that other countries are ripping us off and so did i nobody else got it especially biden never got it he never got it still doesn't get it now he really gets nothing i'll tell you he didn't get it in prime time now he really doesn't get it  but it's okay for them to make every city look just like portland which is a disaster and again we could clean it up we just go right through it five thousand tenth out right through it these guys are tough they're smart and they love our country they love our country we'll clean it up in one half hour it'll be over did you see this radical left mayor wheeler his name is the radical left mayor they chased him mike they chased him out of his home last night and all he does is be nice to them because they don't understand nice they only understand one thing strength that's the only thing they under they don't understand nice they chased him out of his home unbelievable biden's plan is to appease the domestic terrorists and my plan is to arrest them and prosecute them and i will always defend law-abiding citizens that's why the rioters are voting for biden and the law enforcement people you know we have it from everybody we just got the sheriffs in florida all of them all of them we got ohio we got texas we got north carolina we got south carolina we got everybody i don't know if there's anybody and i see rick perry right there rick perry what are you doing here rick rick perry one of the greats  but they're all voting for me this election is about safety and this election is about jobs today i'm delighted to accept a very very special endorsement from people i like sort of grew up with these people i don't know what it is the relationship we have with all of us with all of us but i'm endorsing i'm getting an endorsement tonight from some very very uh special people they work hard they do great we really put them back to work because this state was in trouble and last year you had the single greatest year economic year in the history of your whole operation right of your whole operation you've never had anything like that this has been your greatest this has been prior to the plague coming in it's been the commonwealth's greatest can we ever call the commonwealth of state you have two places you always have to say well wait a minute is this one a commonwealth two places you know what the other place is name it huh that's right how did you know that congressman but this commonwealth it's a great commonwealth it's a great place and the boilermakers local union local 154 of the boilermakers they chartered in pittsburgh 125 years ago none of you are around to see it and it now represents members in pennsylvania ohio and west virginia and i want to thank john hughes and the boilermakers here today it's a great honor to have you let me who's john where the hell is john stand up john  john we appreciate it we appreciate it do you know why john is the head you know why because look he's got the worst location i say where's john i'm looking in the front row he said put up your hand john look at that guy he's good you've got my vote john hey boilermakers thank you what a job you do you're the heart of this country you really are thank you very much that's a great endorsement that's a great endorsement  joe biden spent the last 47 years shipping pennsylvania jobs to china and foreign nations and i've spent the last four years bringing them back home and we're bringing them back home bringing a lot of things back i in the last administration's eight-year pure war on pennsylvania oil and coal and fracking and national if you look at the natural gas what they've done to this state what they were doing to this state it was sort of easy i just opened it up and i said do it and the investment put into pennsylvania the investment put into the commonwealth of pennsylvania has been record-setting but again you had the greatest year you've ever had last year prior to the virus you're going to be set now with what we're doing i believe that this next quarter which will be announced interestingly just prior to the election so i'm putting myself on the line but i know what's going to happen the numbers are going to be great and next year is going to be one of the greatest years not only for pennsylvania but for the entire country so joe hyden we have a new one joe hayden we call him joe hayden i have all of them what do you like better what do you like better we got a number let's do a little poll can we do a poll i saved myself so much money you know i saved myself so much money we do these polls with thousands and those people are coming in from the back are they not yes they're coming in i'm telling you wouldn't have believed it i'm landing i wasn't waving at you i was waving at them there's more but i do these polls right and it's like a perfect poll you know do you ever see the companies you give them a million bucks and they do a poll like 78 people were polled no you got thousands of people so tell me what's your feeling first of all in the name what's it you like magga make america great again yes huh oh you are the one you are a man i made you famous today you said the nicest things about me thank you did you see him on television today i think you're great i think you're great thank you now he called me a great christian and a great christian leader thank you but he did say i wasn't perfect but that's okay i said thank you anyway right no that was really great that was really great but if you look at it the things they've done we're going to go through a couple of different polls as we go along because i love the people saying do this or do that but one of the things i got you out of is this thing sounds so good but it's so bad it's a rip-off of our country the so-called paris climate accord it's a disaster a death sentence it's a death sentence for your energy jobs i took it out i withdrew from that calamity biden pledged to reinstate it it's going to cost you billions and billions of dollars you know what it really is it's a way of really taking advantage of the united states that's what it is last year i visited the shell petrochemical plant in beaver county anybody ever hear of beaver county the largest investment in your state's history all made possible by our pro-energy policies biden would wipe out that entire industry killing the jobs of more than 600 000 pennsylvania workers it's probably 940 000 they say think of that also prices and everything else now biden today came out and said no no fracking's okay it's okay did you just say that fracking's okay because he was getting killed and now he came out in favor of law enforcement look at all these handsome cops here and a beautiful cop  no but how can anybody believe it he's totally against at his speech and at the dnc where we got much higher numbers than they did but you know they put out that they did they'll say anything we got much higher by millions and millions of people we had a great did we have a great convention  good job you did but we had a great convention and it's been uh really terrific you know i made a speech at mount rushmore and since that speech our numbers have been up up up like a rocket like a beautiful rocket the mount rushmore speech i said you know we're getting hit by this pandemic very unfairly in the sense that we've done such a good job with the ventilators all of the things you know you've heard it a thousand times and we have to get back and i made a speech in really a great place south dakota but it was mount rushmore you know they want to blow it up you know they want to take off now right if you would see how beautiful if you would see how beautiful this is it was like this perfect evening the sun was setting the faces of these great great majestic heroes of our country right heroes of our country  and they want to blow up mount rushmore but how about this one the democrats yesterday came out with a plan did you see it now they're the d.c democrats they want to change the name of the washington monument perhaps take it down  thomas jefferson pretty good thomas jefferson right you could forget about ever hearing that name again abraham lincoln you could forget about it they want to take down all statues all monuments in washington we have some of your greatest people right here let me not even talk to the congressman the heck with the congressman the boilermakers how do you like how do you like the idea of taking down our statues to our great george washington thomas jefferson abraham lincoln andrew jackson all of them i don't think the boilermakers you'll ring you'll do a ring around washington right along with christopher columbus he's in big trouble i'll tell you except there was one there was a group of great italians in new york they tried to take down  they tried to take down christopher columbus statue in new york you saw what happened right these italians formed a little circle they say come on the agitators decided to leave let's get out of here darling they protected christopher columbus the italians no the italians aren't big on taking down christopher columbus you take down those statues you can forget about the italian vote do we agree but they protected it when asked in a debate if there would be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking and natural gas and so many things that really fire up these big plants where many of you work and they produce you know just millions and millions of jobs throughout our country biden said no we would absolutely not allow anything like that we would make sure it's totally eliminated that's what he said he said we would make sure it's totally eliminated or eliminated now he's coming and saying this isn't working too well this isn't working you know i made a speech a week ago in texas we had crowds that were unbelievable on the highways it you can't get in but the highways it's like incredible you could sell your ticket tonight for a lot of money go to ebay even as a used ticket you could probably sell but you go down the highways and you see and i was thinking in texas i'm making a speech in front of obviously people that like oil they like god and you know what i'll say like they like their second amendment right so so think about it so whether it's pennsylvania or texas or oklahoma or north dakota or any any place you take a look at this right and no oil no guns no god i don't think george washington running with abraham lincoln as his vp he'll pick abraham lincoln as vp is going to win in texas or in pennsylvania or anyplace else with those three things eliminated that's what they want to do they want to take away your second amendment if i weren't president you would either have an obliterated second amendment or it would be gone entirely i am standing between them and your second amendment and that's it that's it they know he put vado in charge of guns beto is in charge he wants to get rid of everything beto that's a beauty remember he said i was born for this anybody that says they're born for this remember better he was on the cover of a magazine i won't mention the magazine they're back there it's a total phony magazine but he was on the cover of the magazine and he said i was born to run for presta he was born for it i was born anybody that gets that carried away that was when he was doing well since then he's cratered ever since he made that statement he's looked very bad but he's uh take a look at what he says about guns and he got put in charge of guns so i guess biden pretty soon is going to be coming out saying no no i never said that check out all of the statement he's made on everything and now he's going the opposite way but he's agreed to the manifesto entirely so maybe he'll do that and then he figures later on he'll go but everything he said is right because he has no control over what's happening the radical left has captured the party they even elected a person that nobody ever heard of a senator it's been a while against a young good-looking kennedy by 10 points in massachusetts did you know kennedy lost in massachusetts you know why because he wasn't a radical left he was like a semi-normal person just slightly left no but think of it this is what's happened and this is really what's happened if you're not a radical lefty meaning guns meaning fossil fuels they want wind wind you know to make the windmill which are made mostly in china and in germany by the way to make it so much emission is let out that it's more than you can ever save it's just the craziest thing also i'm a big i am truly an environmentalist but you have to understand when we do things and they don't and we clean and it's very expensive to do that and they don't and we have this massive planet and china india russia germany all these places it's fuming up and we're doing our job and beautiful no they have to do it also otherwise it just doesn't work the way it's supposed to  they want to ban straws has anybody ever tried those paper straws they're not working right they want to ban straws i said well you know i've had a couple of meals at mcdonald's etc over the years right wendy's friend of mine owns wendy's i'll give it a plug right burger king so they want to ban straws i said oh really what about the carton what about the plate what about the knives and the spoons that are plastic oh they're okay but the straws we gotta ban has anybody ever tried seriously the new sort's made out of paper right it disintegrates as you're drinking if you have a nice tie like this tie this would have no chance by the time you get finished the straw is totally disintegrated does anybody walk around with a plastic straw because it's not bad you know you whip it out boom boom you never had to do that when asked whether he would be willing to destroy the jobs of hundreds of thousands of blue-collar workers to push his anti-energy agenda you know what the answer is right it's the green new deal right the screening this was made by this was made up this was made up by people that don't get it either that or people that just don't like our country very much but biden replied yes he'll get rid of those jobs and he famously told a voter i want you to look in my eyes when he's not wearing the mask because i've never seen a man that liked the mask look i'm all for it we have a big weekend distance on the weekend and all of that stuff and wear your mask when you close together in particular and wash your hands all those things we have labor day weekend coming up but did you ever see a man that likes a mask as much as him and then he makes a speech and he always has it not always but a lot of times he has it hanging down because you know what it gives him a feeling of security if i were a psychiatrist right no i'd say i'd say this guy's got some big issues hang in there congressman give me your mask i want to have it hanging from my i don't want to touch your damn mask mike i'll never touch your man  no but the new one is you know i went for a physical the doctor said to me sir would you like to go over to walter reed it's incredible by the way the job they do on people that have been just really hurt are heroes and the job they do is incredible but sir would you like to go over and do a physical you have some time you know why i had time some deal oh it was china i decided not to see china because they didn't like the way they were doing business okay does that make sense so the doctor white house doctor highly respected sean sean connelly sir would you like to go over and do your physical do a piece of it or finish it or whatever it was but do a physic i said i don't know i'm not in love with the idea well let's if you do it we don't have to do it okay let's go come on so we went way one and we're driving now you have to understand there are like you know 100 cars you see what happens here it's like the plane times 50. so the cars are driving all over it's about a 20-minute drive and we get to the hospital i get out i was there probably for an hour and a half two hours and then yesterday i read that i had strokes cnn fake news cnn right there now it's mini strokes i called them i don't know what a mini stroke is but it's not good and there could be a day and donald admit i said hey it happens to all of us right except these young ones it's never going to happen to them they're not looking at that but you know what happens but nothing happens so i went in i did that part of the physical the end result was he's very healthy they're very unhappy when they heard that result and what you don't remember is when this took place it was a long time ago they just started up because we wanna they wanna try and get me to be in biden's physical level you know they viewed me as being somebody that's you know i go around hey last week this week texas north carolina florida south carolina back to washington let's go here let's go there let's go everywhere meetings all the time i think i've answered more questions from these maniacs than any president in history and mean question you know i watched biden yesterday so he hasn't answered questions in what two months or something and yesterday he took a couple and they were set ups like i've never seen one young woman who i think is there one young woman is smiling hi hi i just like to ask you i'm sorry to bother you with this question it's the most incredible so the doctor wrote a letter saying no this uh rumor is wrong and i don't like you know rumors like that and by the way if it were a fact it's fine it should i think it's an important thing but if it's not true my wife was like she came to me she said i think i would have known that i said yeah i think they would have known her too because they drove back with me you know the press follows me they have a special deal of van they followed me and then we go in we go out but if you remember last time i go in i spend a little time a physical like we all have hopefully you have a good thing to have i guess as long as they give you a good answer if they give you a bad answer don't bother possibly too late but i go in i come out a couple of hours later i guess whatever it is short time later i get into the car the press sees me get into the car on my way home i get a call from my wife the first lady who's very popular do we like our first she's very popular great person great woman she said darling are you okay i go why do you ask she said they're reporting that you had a heart attack now you have to understand i'm driving in a car which is about what six cars in front of the press because they have a big car a lot of them and we try and give them as little room as possible make it uncomfortable but they're right behind me so they know i got in and cnn reported that i had a heart attack that was the same visit and that didn't work  you know it's unbelievable cnn reported i had a heart attack so my wife was concerned i said no not that i know of and if i did i think i'd be back there no i'm i'll be home in 15 minutes darling thank you for caring it's always nice it's always she sounded relieved that's good when your wife sounds relieved but she said i wonder how that happened why did they do that because they're fake news so i go in and that rumor lasted for a little while like a day or two it lasted for a little while no matter what i did you know i walk i'm in the same motorcade i go in and i go out they know i'm in the motorcade i actually have to report it but i'm in the motorcade and they said i had to cut one of them said it was a massive heart attack think of it again it could happen someday okay and when it does i hope things work out but they knew i'm in the motorcade and yet they reported it anyway because they're fake news now for the same visit that was the same you know that was the stupidest thing from now on when i go for a physical or something or go to the hospital announce it because this was a quick thing the doctor he got me in a lot of trouble he's a great doctor i said no more surprise visits to the hospital where we do a little work because we have some time but so now the same visit they started yesterday because some joker from the new york times who's a third great reporter writes a book and he said the vice president was prepared to take over the reigns because they thought the president was going to go i guess under anesthesia do they still call it in the old days they called it anesthesia it's essentially the same thing i don't want to get into a situation like where biden use record player remember that you go home you turn on your record player but the anesthesia and i said how could that be so remember just the same visit same visit they said heart attack a long time all of a sudden out of this book and he said suffered mini strokes now they get a letter from the white house doctor that said it's totally false totally false but they still go with it they go with it and they know i'm in the group with them coming back and if you i don't know much about a mini stroke but i assume mr congressman if you have a mini stroke you're not heading back to the white house right at least you'll spend a couple of nights at that great hospital right so anyway these are really dangerous people they are so bad for our country if we had honest press it would be so great for the usa he's so great they're just a bunch of phony people not all of them you have some very good ones like about ten percent no you have some very good ones you have some great journalists but it's really they know it's phony stuff they're doing anything they can to get this sleepy guy into the white house and i just don't think the public is going to fall for it  i don't think the public is going to fall for it you know in his best days 25 30 years ago he was weak he was weak as a senator he was weak he was not known as being one of the smart ones and now it's not exactly prime time i can tell you that i just want to announce tonight because we're joined with some very very special warriors and dan muser dan thank you very much great job you're doing dan congressman these are congressmen who have uh really been warriors for me i really have been thank you very much dan fred keller fred thank you great job brett the great john joyce great thank you john guy reschenthaler do you know digression  what are you doing over there what happened you don't get along with these guys huh oh okay that's good now i understand that's good glenn thompson great job great job brent really great and a real good friend of mine right from the beginning right mike you know we were in pennsylvania and a friend of ours a congressman long term right from kentucky
. PAUL. SURE. WHAT IS. THIS. THERE'S PAUL. SHE MOVED TO SEE. SONG.  FOR SHE SINCE. SONG. OKAY. FOR WE.  THEY. SEAMSTRESS. YEAH._x000D_ YOU YOU MAY. YOU MUST.  THREE JESUS. THREE THAT. IT IS NOT BAD. HE MAKES.  SIX THANK YOU. OKAY.  C. C.  DAYS.  WE.  OUR. I_x000D_ MEAN.  SOME GAME.  THANK. THIS_x000D_ WEEK.  THEY.  ALL. LAST. JUST. THREE THAT.  THERE. IT'S NINE O'CLOCK ON SATURDAY. THE REGULAR SHIFT. THERE'S AN OLD MAN SITTING NEXT TO ME. MEGAN TO HIS TONIC AND GIN AND.  WHAT. WELL. THIS. NOW JOHN AT THE- A FRIEND OF MINE. THANKS THREE. AND ITS QUICK WITH A JOKE. SIDE OF THE A SMALL BUT THIS LAY CITY. THIS IS.  SO THE STATE. WE KNOW THAT FOR A WHILE. AND HE'S TALKING WITH DAVE STILL IN THE NAVY AND PROBABLY.  FOR SATURDAY. THE MANAGER JAMES B. AS- JUSTIN KNOWS THAT IT'S MAIN THEY'VE BEEN. JUST TO GET OF.  LADIES AND GENTLEMEN PLEASE WELCOME THE FORTY FIFTH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES DONALD J. TRUMP. THE.  FROM MINNESOTA. TO THE HEAD OF THE TENNESSEE. STATUS SORRY. ERIC. ON. THE. TODAY.  ONE HOUR ONE A CROWD THIS ONE IS. THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE OUTSIDE THAT THEY COULDN'T. WORKING. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. SO WHAT IS SURPRISING ABOUT IT HOW YOU. AND I'M THRILLED TO BE IN DOUGLAS COUNTY BUT PEOPLE ARE COMING FROM ALL OVER THE PLACE. IT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE FOR DOUGLAS COUNTY INCIDENT. WE HAVE THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF LOYAL HARDWORKING AMERICAN. FIFTY TWO DAYS FROM NOW WE'RE GOING TO WIND ABOUT A. FOR MORE YEARS IN THE WHY THOUGH. AND THEN AFTER THAT WE'LL NEGOTIATE HIS WOULD PROBABLY. BASED ON THE WAY WE WERE TREATED WITH PROBABLY ENTITLED TO IT ON THE FLOOR AFTER THE. YOU SHOULD NEVER HAPPEN TO ANOTHER PRESIDENT IT'S JUST. DISHONEST GROUP OF PEOPLE BUT- HERE WE ARE AND WE'RE GONNA BE HERE FOR ANOTHER FOUR YEARS. YOU KNOW THE GOVERNOR OF YOUR STATE. I TRIED VERY HARD TO STOP US FROM HAVING THIS EVENT TONIGHT HE DID LIKE A STABBING VICTIM HAVE RIOTS AND THEY GET UP ALL SORTS OF THINGS AND THAT'S OKAY YOU CAN BURN UP THAT HOURS THAT'S OKAY YOU KNOW YOU CALL IT THAT WE CALL THIS A PROTEST BECAUSE IF YOU GO TO PROTESTS YOU'RE ALLOWED. SO THAT ANYBODY ASKS YOU OUTSIDE THIS IS CALLED THE FRIENDLY PROTESTERS. IT'S TRUE THEY HAVE YOU CAN'T HAVE POLITICAL RALLIES YOU GUYS BECAUSE OF BECAUSE OF BIDEN AHEAD IN ABOUT THREE PEOPLE. GIVE A SEE IT WOULD BE A LITTLE CIRCLES OF CIRCLE. YOU KNOW WIFE PUTS A CIRCLE BECAUSE HE WANTS TO BE LIKE CORRECT WITH COVID BUT IT'S NOT REALLY BECAUSE THEY CAN'T GET ANYBODY TO FILL UP A ROOM SET UP WITH THESE BIG CIRCLES. REALLY GET ANYBODY TO FILL NOBODY WANTS TO GO. WELL BOY YOU KNOW THAT THE FAKE NEWS WITH ALL THOSE PEOPLE BACK. GRETCHEN WOULD A GOVERNOR DID YOU SEE THE OTHER DAY NOW THEY'RE FINDING OUT THAT TO DO AN INTERVIEW AN INTERVIEW THEY ASK HIM A QUESTION THAT BEING SAID GIVING HIM THE QUESTIONS THAT HAVE A GOOD REQUIRE. SO DID DO AN INTERVIEW HE DEMANDS ARE GETTING THE QUESTIONS ARE JUST PEOPLE WRITE OUT THE ANSWERS SO THEY ASK A QUESTION. BECAUSE BRING THAT UP BREAKING UP. CLOSER CANCEL. DAMMIT GREAT. YOU KNOW WE HAVE A DEBATE COMING UP IN THREE WEEKS. THAT IS THE PROBLEM. YOU KNOW WINSTON CHURCHILL DID YOU EVER HEAR WORDS INSURERS. WIDGET CHURCHILL WAS A GREAT DEBATER GREAT. AND IF JOE GETS OFF THE STAGE WALKS OFF THE STAGE DIRECTION WHICH I THINK HE PROBABLY WILL IT OFFERS YOU KNOW HE'S BEEN DOING THIS FOR FORTY SEVEN YEARS. I THINK HE PROBABLY WILL IF HE GETS OFF THE STATE'S BIGGEST THERE WAS THE SINGLE GREATEST A BANK THEY'VE EVER SEEN WINSTON CHURCHILL WAS NOTHING COMPARED TO SLEEPY JOE. YOU KNOW THAT YOU KNOW THAT DICK IS THAT WHAT A GREAT PERFORMANCE WAS GREAT TONIGHT. HE WAS GREAT THIS GUY WAS GREAT NOW IS NOT GREAT BUT YOUR GOVERNOR TRIED TO STOP US HE TRIED TO STOP US THE GOVERNOR OF NEVADA. HE TRIED TO STOP US ANYONE WE WENT TO DIFFERENT VENUES. KELLY O'DONNELL YOU KNOW SHE'S A- FADING REPORTER FOR NBC YOU KNOW. SHE RESIGNED SHE SAID. WELL YOU KNOW THEY HAVE A CROWD TONIGHT THE HUNDRED LOOK LIKE TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND PEOPLE THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE BY THE WAY BLOCKED MORE COMPANIES. SHE SAID HE'S GOT MAYBE A THOUSAND PEOPLE THOUSAND. YOU KNOW LIKE I HAVE A THOUSAND PEOPLE HERE. NO THIS IS THE FIGURES YOU KNOW WHAT IT'S NOT A QUESTION OF LIKE HOW MANY THEY ARE JUST A BUNCH OF DISHONEST PEOPLE I'VE NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT. YOU KNOW BEING IN REAL ESTATE AND BEING IN NEW YORK AND BEING AT ALL OVER. I SEE A LOT OF DISHONEST PEOPLE I THINK THE MEDIA THE FAKE NEWS IS THE MOST DISHONEST GROUP OF PEOPLE I'VE EVER SEEN. ANYWHERE IN MY ENTIRE LIFE. AND THAT INCLUDES BY THE WAY LEADERS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES THAT ARE OUR FRIENDS OKAY THAT'S A BIG STATEMENT THEY REALLY ARE BAD NEWS. BUT HERE WE ARE AND THIS IS REALLY AMAZING THE GOVERNOR TRIED TO STOP US YOU COULDN'T BUT THINK OF THIS. HE'S IN CONTROL OF MILLIONS OF VOTES HERE'S A GUY CALLING VENUES TELLING THEM NOT TO HAVE THE RALLY. CALLING DIFFERENT VENUES DON'T HAVE THE RALLY. WE'RE NOT GONNA LET YOU OUT THE RALLY. AND INSTALLING THIS GOVERNOR WHO IS A POLITICAL ACT. HE WAS A POLITICAL ACTIVITY BECAME GOVERNOR AND THIS IS THE GUY. THAT WE'RE EXHAUSTING WITH MILLIONS OF BALLOTS UNSOLICITED BALLOTS MILLIONS AND MILLIONS. AND THEN WE'RE SUPPOSED TO WIN THE STATE'S. AND WE HAVE A GUY THAT WOULD DO THAT. WHERE HE WON'T LET US HAVE AND WE CALL IT THE PROTESTERS THEREFORE WE CAN DO IT. BUT YOU WANNA KNOW SOMETHING IT'S A DISGRACE SO WHO THE HELL IS GOING TO TRUST YOU KNOW THEY SAY. TRUST TRUST GOVERNMENT WELL HOW WOULD YOU TRUST A GUY. THAT FLORIDA THAT WE AREN'T HERE THAT WE CAN HAVE ALL THESE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE. WHAT YOU ARE REALLY BACK FAR. AND HE'S TO JOE OF. HE'S IN CHARGE OF THE ELECTION AND THE MILLIONS OF DOLLARS SO IF I'M UP LIKE MEDIA OUTLETS HE CAN REVEAL OPTION HE CAN RADIOLOGIC AND I'LL TELL YOU WHAT WHETHER IT'S IN NORTH CAROLINA. WHETHER IT'S IN MICHIGAN WHETHER IT'S IN OTHER STATES WHERE THEY'RE SENDING OUT THEY'RE GOING TO BE SENDING OUT. THEY'RE GOING TO BE SENDING OUT EIGHTY MILLION BALLOTS. AND IT'S DEMOCRATS THEY'RE GOING TO THEY'RE TRYING TO RIG THIS ELECTION. AT EVERY SINGLE PLACE IN THE LAST YEAR YEAR AND A HALF AGO MODERN DAY FORGET ABOUT. TINY AMOUNTS A CONGRESSIONAL RACE IN NEW YORK A SMALL NUMBER OF VOTES. IF YOU GO TO NEW JERSEY IF YOU GO TO VIRGINIA IF YOU GO TO PENNSYLVANIA IF YOU GO TO CALIFORNIA LOOK AT SOME OF THESE RACES. EVERYONE EVERYONE IN THESE RACES WAS A FRAUD MISSING BALLOTS AND I DON'T MEAN LIKE 1% I MEAN LIKE 20% 25% THEY'RE TRYING TO RIG THE ELECTION THEY SHOULD MAKE PEOPLE. IF YOU REGISTER IF YOU WANT A SOLICITED BALLOT THAT'S WHAT YOU ASK FOR YOU HAVE TO SIGN PAPERS YOU GET IT BECAUSE YOU CAN'T BE THERE THAT'S ONE THING WHEN THEY SAID EIGHTY MILLION BALLOTS TO PEOPLE THEY HAVE NO IDEA WHERE THEY'RE GOING ACTUALLY THEY PROBABLY DO HAVE A GOOD IDEA WITH THE CALLER. AND THAT'S OUR PROBLEM THEY SAID THEY EIGHTY MILLION BALLOTS OUT. WE'RE ARE THEY GOING WHO ARE THEY SENDING THEM TO. ARE THEY SENDING THEM TO CERTAIN AREAS AND NOT OTHERS. ARE THEY SENDING IT TO DEMOCRAT AREAS CAESAR ALL. CONTROLLED BY DEMOCRAT GOVERNORS LIK YOU'RE POLITICALLY MOTIVATED GOVERNOR SO. SIR JUST A FINISHER THAT LOOK. JUST TO FINISH IN THE- HE'S A GUY THAT TRIED TO SILENCE US BY NOT HAVING THIS AND IT ENDED UP A CROWD TURNED OUT TO BE A LOT BIGGER THAN N. B. C. WHICH IS. WHICH IS. WHICH IS OWNED BY JOHN JANICE C. O. N. CONJURES O. N. C. A. S. T. COMCAST COMCAST WHEN I CALLED TIME BECAUSE ITS ALL TIME. I'LL TELL YOU WHAT YOU KNOW THEY TALKED IN THE OLD DAYS I THINK IT SHOULD STILL BE. NEWS WHEN THEY BROADCAST HAD TO BE REASONABLY ACCURATE RIGHT AND THEY HAD LICENSING TODAY THEY CAN DO WHATEVER THE HELL THEY WANT IT'S FAKE NEWS AND IT'S A DISGRACE AND YOU KNOW WHAT BACK THEN I'LL TELL YOU IT'S HURTING OUR COUNTRY. AT SEVEN O'CLOCK ON. YEAH THE BIGGEST PROBLEM THAT THIS COUNTRY HAS IS THE FAKE NEWS MEDIA. WORSEN THE DEMOCRATS BECAUSE YOU KNOW THE DEMOCRATS AND THEIR PARTNERS THEY PLAYED TOGETHER JOE BIDEN. READ THE LAST FORTY SEVEN YEARS SELLING OUT AMERICA OFF YOUR YOUR JOBS THROWING OPEN YOUR BORDERS DEPLETING OUR MILITARY AND SACRIFICING YOUR CHILDREN'S FUTURE IN CHINA. I'VE SPENT THE LAST FOUR YEARS BRINGING OUR JOBS BACK TO AMERICA SECURING OUR BORDERS. REBUILDING OUR MILITARY AND STANDING UP TO CHINA LIKE NEVER BEFORE NOBODY IS EVER STOOD UP TO CHINA LIKE WE HAVE STOOD UP TO CHINA. AND YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE LAST. SLEEPY JOE BIDEN SURRENDERED YOUR USE NOW USES THEM BASEMENT AGAIN. NO IS IT IS BASEMENT. HE'S IN HIS BASEMENT BUT YOU KNOW I CAN BE BETTER BECAUSE HE PUT THE MOST VICIOUS SAID ON TELEVISION THAT I'VE EVER SEEN YOU KNOW WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT WHERE I'M STANDING OVER THE GRAVES OF OUR FALLEN WARRIORS OUR FALLEN HEROES THESE ARE GREAT PEOPLE THE GREATEST PEOPLE THERE ARE. AND I'M STANDING OVER THERE AND THEY HAVE SOME SLEAZE BAG REPORTER FROM A THIRD RATE MAGAZINE HAVING SOME SORT OF SPORTING ME SAYING I WON'T EVEN USE THE TERM BUT SAYING BAD THINGS AND THERE'S NOBODY THAT LOVES OUR MILITARY RESPECTS. AND I DIDN'T EVEN ASK WE HAD TWENTY FIVE PEOPLE THAT WERE WITNESSES THAT ARE ON THE RECORD ALREADY THAT OF SAID THAT NEVER TOOK PLACE IT NEVER TOOK PLACE WHAT THEY SAID AND YET. PATHETIC JONI'S A PATHETIC HUMAN BEING TO ALLOW THAT TO HAPPEN. IS THE PROBLEM HE DOESN'T EVEN KNOW WHAT HAPPENED I DON'T I DON'T THINK. I THINK HE HAS NO IDEA WHAT HE'S A PATHETIC HUMAN BEING TO LET THAT HAPPEN WHERE THEY PUT AN AD LIKE THAT WHERE I'M STANDING OVER GRADES IN THE DISTRICT HE SAID THIS. WITH NO SOURCES NO NOTHING THEY GOT NOTHING AND I HAVE TWENTY FIVE REAL WITNESSES WITHIN NAMES WITH EVERYTHING SAYING IT NEVER HAPPENED AND THEY PUT AN AD LIKE THAT UP THERE A DISGRACE BUT YOU KNOW THE GOOD PART. NOW I CAN BE REALLY VICIOUS. I CAN. AND WE'LL START BY SAYING WE'RE GOING TO START BY SAYING THAT THE DEMOCRATS ARE TRYING TO RIG THIS ELECTION BECAUSE IT'S THE ONLY WAY THEY'RE GOING TO WIN THE ONLY WAY THEY'RE GOING TO WIN IS TO REGAIN. BIDEN SURRENDERED YOUR JOBS TO CHINA HE LOOKED HIS SAID WALKED AWAY WITH A BILLION AND A HALF DOLLARS GIVE ME A BREAK. GIVE ME A BREAK HIS SON'S GONNA SAY DEBT YOU CAN'T TAKE THIS MONEY AWAY DON'T. THAT PLEASE I. YOU KNOW HOW MUCH EXPERIENCE YOU HAVE. THERE'S A YOUNG MAN THERE'S A YOUNG MAN HERE IS A VERY YOUNG YOUNG MAN HANDSOME YOUNG GUY. HE'S ABOUT LIKE TWELVE YOU KNOW WHAT HE'S GOT MORE EXPERIENCE OF HUNTER. HUNTER WHERE IS WHERE IS IT. WITH NO EXPERIENCE NO KNOWLEDGE OF ENERGY NO JOB GOT THROWN OUT OF THE MILITARY YOU KNOW GET THROWN OUT BY THE WAY I USED TO BE NICE ABOUT THAT NOW I DON'T ONCE I SAW THAT AND I DON'T HAVE TO BE NICE ANYMORE. OKAY I REALLY MEAN IT. YOU KNOW I BY THE WAY THAT IT. I KNOW SOME HORRIBLE PEOPLE HORRIBLE HUMAN BEING SOME OF THE WORST PEOPLE IN THE WORLD I REALLY DO THE HORRIBLE. NONE OF THOSE PEOPLE UNDER THE WORST THE WORST. REAL ESTATE DEVELOPERS IN NEW YORK YOU DON'T GET MUCH WORSE. I KNOW SOME OF THE WORST PEOPLE IN THE WORLD NOT ONE PERSON DO I KNOW THAT WOULD SAY THAT STANDING ON TOP OF GRAVES OF HEROES REALLY NOT ONE PERSON. SO I WILL TELL YOU THIS SO NOW WE CAN PLAY IT LIKE IT IS LET'S FACE IT JOE WAS SHOT LET'S FACE IT OKAY. SO NOT THAT HE HAS ANYTHING TO DO BECAUSE YOU WON'T KNOW WHAT'S HAPPENING HE'LL JUST BE LOCKED UP IN A ROOM SOMEPLACE IN THE RADICAL LEFT IS GOING TO BE RUNNING A COUNTRY. YEAH. THANK. BUT NOW HE WANTS TO SURRENDER OUR COUNTRY. THE VIOLENT LEFT WING MOB YOU KNOW THAT IF BIDEN WINS CHINA WINZIP BIDEN WINS THE MOB WINS YOU SEE WHAT'S GOING ON WITH ALL THESE DEMOCRATIC OR I ALWAYS SAY DEMOCRAT RUN CITIES AND STATES IT'S A DISASTER IT'S A DISASTER AND WE KEEP SAYING LET US BRING IN THE TROOPS WHAT WE DID IN MINNEAPOLIS WE EDITED IN FORTY FIVE MINUTES IT WAS AND- THEY WENT THROUGH TWO WEEKS. WELL THE WAY WE COULD DO IT IN PORTLAND DIDN'T HALF AN HOUR IT WOULD ALL BE ALL. BUT WE HAVE THESE STUPID PEOPLE THAT THINK ABOUT THAT POOR MERITS AT BUT THAT IT WILL IS APATHETIC. THEY FORCED HIM OUT OF HIS HOME HE'S HAD A FILE HE'S NOW FINDING A NEW HOME IT'S SO NICE. IT'S PROPHETIC HONESTLY IT'S PATHETIC WE COULD SOLVE THAT PROBLEM IN A HALF AN HOUR. JUST LIKE WE DID. AND BY THE WAY THE U. S. MARSHALS DID A GREAT JOB IN PORTLAND. YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN NOBODY WINS. THE RIDERS WINDY ALLERGIES WHEN ARSONISTS FLAG BURNERS THEY ALL WIN. I'M RUNNING FOR REELECTION TO BRING PROSPERITY TO NEVADA TO HOLD DIALOGUE COUNTRY. I'VE BEEN HERE A LONG TIME I HAVE SOME THINGS IN NEVADA THAT ARE VERY GOOD. TO PUT VIOLENT CRIMINALS BEHIND BARS AND TO ENSURE THE FUTURE BELONGS TO AMERICA NOT TO CHINA. I DO GET A KICK OUT OF WATCHING A GUY OR I'M GOING TO DO THIS YOU DON'T COPY MY LOCAL. THE CAESAR IS BY AMERICA OF WHEN THAT WILL BE OPEN FOR THE LAST HALF CENTURY. CAN I SEE GOOD I AS THE FAKE NEWS TO TAKE YOU CAMBER'S AND SHOW ALL THE WAY BACK THERE WERE HUNDREDS OF YARDS. ALL THE WAY BACK TO TAKE THE GERMANS. GOING AS FAR AS THE EYE CAN SEE. NO GO TO NBC NEWS IT'S NOT A THOUSAND PEOPLE. YOU DON'T YOU DON'T YOU CAN'T SEE IT YOU CAN'T SEE IT DOWN HERE YOU WON'T BELIEVE HOW MANY PEOPLE I THINK GOES BACK. SO THE BOTTOM LINE IS WHEN WE WHEN AMERICA WINS WHAT'S HAPPENING. AND NOBODY'S DONE TO CHINA WHAT I DID LOOK BILLIONS TENS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF TERRORISTS WE TOOK IN I GAVE TWENTY EIGHT BILLION DOLLARS TO FARMERS THE FARMERS IS DOING VERY WELL. DOING VERY THANK YOU THANK YOU PRESIDENTIAL TWENTY EIGHT BILLION SIXTEEN BILLION ONE YEAR TWELVE AND THEY WERE TARGETED I SAID HOW MUCH IS IT SUNNY BRIDGES SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE GREAT GUY SAID HOW MUCH WERE THEY HURT BY SIR TWELVE BILLION TWO YEARS AGO. AT SIXTEEN BILLION LAST YEAR SAID ERIC IT WILL TAKE IT OUT OF CHINA WE GIVE A TWENTY EIGHT BILLION TO REFORM. THAT NEVER HAPPENED BEFORE. YOU THINK JOE BUT WOULD EVEN THINK ABOUT IT WOULD BE THINK OF. IT YOU WOULDN'T EVEN THINK ABOUT IT NOW HE'S WHAT WORRIED ABOUT DOES HE HAVE A TELEPROMPTER TO ANSWER A REPORTER'S QUESTION YOU KNOW THE WORST PART ABOUT THAT IS OF THE FACT THAT HE'S DOING THAT BECAUSE LET'S FACE IT HE'S UNABLE. OKAY IT'S NOT THAT IT'S THAT THE FAKE NEWS WOULD GIVE HIM THE QUESTIONS THEY NEVER GAVE ME THE QUESTIONS DID YOU EVER GIVE ME QUESTIONS BACK THERE DID YOU EVER GET SICK ONE. DAY THEY'LL GIVE ME QUESTIONS. THE FAKE NEWS GIVE THEM QUESTIONS. BUT OF COURSE NOW DONNA BRAZILE WORKS FOR FOX SO THAT'S GONE A LONG WAY. REMEMBER WHEN DONNA BRAZILE GET CROOKED HILLARY THE QUESTIONS RIGHT JOE DEBATE. AND THEN SHE SAID WELL I DON'T THINK I DID I DON'T REMEMBER I KNEW SHE WAS IN TROUBLE WHICH IS IT- I DON'T REMEMBER DOING THAT. SHE DIDN'T REMEMBER- OKAY WAS WAS YOU KNOW REMEMBER. SUIT. SUIT. TO YOU KNOW WHAT I USED TO SAID BACK AND I'D SAY YOU KNOW BE QUIET PLEASE DON'T SAY THAT IT'S REALLY NOT THAT YOU KNOW IT'S TRUE SHE DELETED THIRTY THREE THANK OF IT THEY'LL NEVER FIND THE EMAILS BECAUSE THEY WERE ACID WASHED AND DELETED BUT YOU KNOW WHAT SHE GOT A SUBPOENA FROM THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS RIGHT AND SHE HAD A LAWYER DELETED THIRTY THREE THOUSAND EMAILS AFTER SHE GOT A UNITED STATES SUBPOENA. AND YOU SAY WHY ISN'T SHE GUILTY OF A MAJOR CRIME RIGHT. AND THEN SHE TOOK TELEPHONES I G. SEBASTIAN WITH A HAMMER RIGHT AND THEN SHE TOOK THE OTHER ONES THAT YOU DELETED A AND NOW THE MOTOR SCAM. THESE PEOPLE THE WORST PEOPLE I HAVE A FRIEND A VERY SMART GUY VERY STREET WISE GUY HE SAID YOU HAVE TO BE THE MOST HONEST GUY IN THE WORLD. TO GO THROUGH THREE YEARS OF INVESTIGATIONS WHERE THEY HAVE. THE WORST HUMAN BEINGS IN THE WORLD THEY WORK FOR THE DEMOCRATS THEY WORK I MEAN MOTHER DIDN'T HAVE A CLUE THIS GUY WAS TOTALLY. BUT LOOK AT THIS WHY SPEND HOW BAD WAS WIDESPREAD HE DELETED HIS PHONE THAT'S ILLEGAL HE DELETED EVERYTHING THEY ALL BELIEVE. AND ALL SAID DO WE MADE A MISTAKE WAS SHOCKED ALL USED SAY IT WAS THEY WOMAN. IT WAS AN OLD WE DIDN'T TO DO THAT EVERYONE OF ALL OVER I THINK IT WAS THIRTY ONE DIFFERENT PHONES. THEY DELAYED IT THESE ARE CRIMINALS WITH DEALING WITH. AND THEY'VE GOT A- IT HAS BE REFERRED TO. THAT HAS TO BE A REPUBLICAN. WE'RE DEALING CRIMINALS. SO I DON'T CARE IF YOU SAY THAT IN WALKER'S YOU KNOW WHAT SHE ILLEGALLY DELETED OTHER LAWYERS YOU GO TO JAIL WHETHER OKAY. AND THE FACT IS THE REPUBLICAN PARTY DOESN'T PLAY IT ROUGH. AND TOUGH LIKE THOSE PEOPLE THEY DON'T PLAY IT THE SAME WAY. THEY DO NICE AND YOU KNOW WE ARE BETTER POLICY THANK GOODNESS WE HAVE BETTER BUT WE HAVE WE BELIEVE IN BORDERS. WE BELIEVE IN NO SANCTUARY CITIES WE BELIEVE THAT LOWERING TAXES WE HAVE BETTER BUT OUR PEOPLE DON'T WE HAVE SOME THAT ARE VERY GOOD. JIM JIM JORDAN GOOD TIM MARK MEADOWS GOOD RIGHT NOW WE HAVE SOME VERY GOOD BUT I'LL TELL YOU WHAT WE PLAYED SO NICE AND IN THE END IT'S NOT RIGHT BECAUSE WHAT THEY GET AWAY WITH AN OBAMA. ADVISED GOT CAUGHT SPYING ON OUR CAMPAIGN USING THE INTELLIGENCE I PUT THAT IN QUOTES USING INTELLIGENCE TO SPY IN OUR CAMPAIGN AND THEY GOT CAUGHT THEY GOT CAUGHT AND YOU KNOW IT WAS ME THAT GOT CAUGHT FORGET ABOUT IT BUT THEY GOT CAUGHT AND SOMEBODY SAID WELL I KNOW BUT HE WAS PRESIDENT. ALL GREAT I'M PRESIDENT TO. AND HELLO A LOT BETTER PRESIDENT THAN HE EXPECTED. YOU KNOW OBAMA CAME INTO OFFICE THEY GAVE HIM THE NOBEL PRIZE LIKE ALMOST IMMEDIATELY RIGHT IN FACT HE DIDN'T EVEN KNOW WHY YOU GOT IT. HE DIDN'T EVEN KNOW I HAD NO IDEA WHY I GOT IT AND HE WAS RIGHT ABOUT THAT BECAUSE NOBODY ELSE DOES EITHER. THEY STILL DON'T KNOW. BUT WE'VE DONE A LOT OF THINGS. SO WE WERE NOMINATED FOR. A FEW DAYS AGO FOR NOBEL PRIZE. WHICH IS A BIG THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE AND THEN YESTERDAY WE WERE NOMINATED A SECOND TIME FOR ANOTHER NOBEL GROUNDS. NOW THAT'S A BIG THING TO ME WELL YOU KNOW IT'S A BIG THING EVEN THOUGH OBVIOUSLY IT'S A VERY POLITICAL THING BUT IT'S A VERY BIG THING THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE RIGHT. I GOT. IT WAS JUST WHAT I'M JUST REPORTING THIS. I GOT ZERO TIME ON THE NIGHTLY NEWS ON THE NETWORK. ZERO WE GOT ZERO TIME THINK OF IT THE PRESIDENT OF YOUR COUNTRY IS HONORED BY BEING NOMINATED FOR THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE AND YOUR NIGHTLY NEWS ABC WHICH IS TERRIBLE. CBS WHICH IS TERRIBLE AND PROBABLY THE WORST OF ALL OWNED BY COMCAST THEY SPENT A FORTUNE YOU KNOW ON PR AND THEN EVERY TIME I GET UP I CALLED COMCAST AND TO SORT OF WIPE OUT THEIR FORTUNE. BUT THEY ARE BAD PEOPLE WHAT NBC IS THE WORST OF THEM ALL NOT ONE. MENTION THESE PEOPLE ARE CORRUPT NOT ONE MENTION OUT WHAT MAGIC SO YOU'RE PRESIDENT JOHNSON NO WELL AND YOU AT LEAST THE NOMINATION. AND THEY DON'T MENTION JOE BIDEN. COULD NOT LEAD OUR COUNTRY. BECAUSE HE DOESN'T REALLY BELIEVE IN OUR COUNTRY RIGHT NOW I DON'T THINK HE BELIEVES THAT IF HE JUST WANTS TO GO TO SLEEP THAT'S ALL. PLEASE DARLING I WANT TO GO TO BED I'M EXHAUSTED. I MADE I MADE ONE SPEECH YESTERDAY BUT DARLING THEY GAVE YOU THE ANSWERS OF THE QUESTIONS I DON'T KNOW BUT I WAS A BIG STRAIN BECAUSE MY EYES I COULD SEE THE TELEPROMPTER. THIS GUY IS THE WORST I AM ONE AND YOU KNOW IT'S GOING TO MAYBE COME BACK TO HAUNT ME BECAUSE WE HAVE A RIGGED ELECTION. WHICH A REGULAR ELECTION THE ONLY WAY WE'RE GOING TO LOSE. BUT I'LL TELL YOU WHAT. HE IS THE WORST CANDIDATE IN THE HISTORY OF PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS. HE DOESN'T KNOW HE'S ALIVE. HE DOESN'T KNOW HE'S ALIVE AND WHAT. I'VE GOT TO KNOW. PRESIDENT XI OF CHINA VERY WELL PRESIDENT PUTIN OF RUSSIA KIM JONG MOON BY THE WAY WHAT HAPPENED TO THE WAR. WAS GOING TO WAR WITH KIM JONG WHAT RESTORE. RESTORE I SEE- I SHOULD NEVER HAPPEN. NEVER HAPPENED ONE SOME. WHAT HAPPENED. NO REMEMBER WE'RE GOING TO TRACK IS GOING TO BE IN TO MY PERSONAL RIGHT. TRUMP IS GOING TO BE A WAR WITHIN THE FIRST WEEK YOU HAVE THREE WINS. WHERE IS THE WAR IN FACT THE PEACE PRIZE WAS BECAUSE I STAYED AT AWARDS AND BY THE WAY. ENDED CERTAIN WARS ARE GOING TO HAPPEN THAT YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW ABOUT. AND LOOK AT LOOK WHAT WE DID. WHAT WE DID JUST YESTERDAY YOUR- AND LOOK WHAT WE DID WITH ISRAEL AND WE JUST SAW THAT. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES. MARINE. SEVENTY TWO YEARS NOTHING HAPPENED AND WE DID IT WOULD DO IT VERY FAST. AND PLENTY OF OTHER COUNTRIES ARE GOING TO BE COMING IN. AT BIDEN IS CONVENTION THEY DECRIED OF URINE HELLUVA GROUND. YEAH THANK YOU THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. THANK YOU VERY MUCH NOW AFTER THIS IS OVER AFTER THIS IS OVER YOU'LL HAVE LIKE IT'D BE SEE THIS THIRD RATE REPORTER STOOD UP- THEY HAD A SMALL CROWD. IS SIGNIFICANT INSIGNIFICANT CROWD IN A GREAT LOCATION YOU HAVE READ IT ONCE WE LANDED WE HAD A DROP OF FIFTY MINUTES THAT'S ALL GREAT BUT I LIKE IT ANYWAY. I'LL TAKE IT ANYWAY I LIKE. YEAH MY JOHN THE PEOPLE WE LOVE EACH OTHER I LIKE. WE LANDED THE BIG BEAUTIFUL AIRFORCE ONE I JUSTICE AS WE COME AGAIN WHY COULDN'T WE HAVE LANDED HERE. I WOULD RATHER YOU KNOW THEN I COULD HAVE DEPLOYED RIGHT BEHIND. INSTEAD WE HAVE THE BEASTS DELIVERS. WHAT YOU DON'T KNOW IS THE BEAST BECAUSE ALMOST AS MUCH AS THE PLANE. TO HELL OF A CAR WALK IN ARMY TECH. THE BEASTS OUT BUT WE COULD HAVE I SAID WHAT ARE WE JUST LAND HERE AND WE COULD SO I GET OFF THE PLANE GOOD HOW LONG WILL IT BE ABOUT FIFTY MINUTES THAT'S A LONG DRIVE. AND DRIVING HERE. THERE WITH TENS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE ON THE STREETS. DID YOU READ THESE FAKE REPORTERS IN THE STATE- PRESIDEN TRUMP IS HARD IN NEVADA TIED. I DON'T THINK SO THE ONLY ONE WHERE CHARGES IF THEY SCREW AROUND WITH THE BALLOTS WHICH THEY WILL DO IN MY OPINION OKAY WITH TIDE ANYWHERE. I GUESS SOME PEOPLE THAT TRAVELED WITH. OBAMA I SAID WAS THAT THE SAME THING THEY SAY NOT EVEN A TINY FRACTION OF WHAT YOU HAVE IS NOT EVEN A FRACTION. WE HAVE MORE DAYS YES. WE HAVE MORE SPIRIT THAN ANY CAMPAIGN THAT ANYBODY'S EVER SEEN. AND THAT INCLUDES TWENTY SIXTEEN WHERE THE INTO CS I'M OBVIOUSLY WAS GREAT. ABOUT ALL THE STATES THAT WE WEREN'T SUPPOSED TO WIN NO HE WON'T WIN THERE YOU WON'T ONE THERE THAT ALL NIGHT LONG. DONALD TRUMP WON THE GREAT STATE OF TEXAS DONALD SOMEONE THE GREAT STATE OF THIS AND THAT AND ONE AFTER ANOTHER AND THEY WILL GO WITH THAT ONE OF THE COOLEST THINGS WATCHING THAT PEOPLE GO CRAZY. THEY WANT. NOT A WORD I WAS HE GOING TO DO IN GEORGE WELL I THINK GEORGE IS GOING TO BE VERY CLOSE IS GOING TO BE VERY CLOSE THEY GO- THE POLLS IN GEORGIA HAVE CLOSE DONALD TRUMP WINS THE STATE OF GEORGIA WHY BECAUSE WE ONE BY SO MUCH OF THE CAN DO IT SIMULTANEOUSLY BY SAYING THE POLLS CITY ONE WE HAD MANY OF THEM RIGHT AND WE'RE DOING BY THE WAY WE'RE DOING GREAT I JUST HAD FLORIDA IS A BIGGIE AND A GOOD ONE. AND WE ARE WINNING IN FLORIDA BY A LOT SO THAT'S. I'LL TELL YOU HERE BECAUSE YOU DON'T READ ABOUT THAT STUFF THAT'LL DIRECT. THEN I LIKE TO RIDE THEY ARE ALL FAKE BONES THE AISLE TO SAY WHAT THE POLLS. ARE WORSE THAN THE WRITING ACTUALLY IN MY OPINION. THE POLLS YOU KNOW THIS. PULLS THEM TO MAKE PEOPLE DISCOURAGED EVEN MADE UP SUPPOSED TO BE DISCOURAGED AND FORTUNATELY FOUR YEARS AGO WE WEREN'T DISCOURAGED BECAUSE IF WE WERE TO BELIEVE THE POLLS NOBODY WOULD'VE VOTED OF CONCEPT IS. REALLY MAKE PEOPLE FEEL SO THAT ON ELECTION DAY AGO DARLING LET'S GO OUT TO DINNER. IT'S SO SAD ABOUT THE PRESIDENT. I WISH SHE WAS GOING TO WIN BUT LET'S GO OUT TO DO THAT WILL COME ONE LET'S UP ON VOTING RIGHT LET'S ABOUT THE RUNNING SHE IS A SUPER. BUT WE NEED A MIKE PEOPLE DON'T GET SUPPRESSED MY PEOPLE GO OUT. MY PEOPLE GO OUT OF VOTERS NO SIR. PHONY POLLS STOP THE GUY NEW YORK ARTIST THIS GRADE HE NEVER CALLED WHAT WRONG. I DON'T KNOW THREE FORTY SIX I DON'T KNOW WHAT ELSE IS LIKE IT'S COOL THREE FORTY WHAT'S HIS NAME WHAT'S HIS DEAL. YES SILVER SILVER NATE SILVER. I AM A FORTUNE. HE SAID I THINK HE GAVE US A 2% CHANCE AT THREE PERCENTAGE. DONALD TRUMP IS A 40% CHANCE TO THEIR WANTING. THE THING WAS OVER BY. TEN O'CLOCK. HE WAS GIVEN WE WERE GIVEN A VERY TINY JAZZ WHAT CHANCE WOULD YOU GIVE US LIKE 9% SOMETHING LIKE THAT YOU KNOW THEY GET MILLIONS OF DOLLARS SHORTLY BEFORE BECAUSE YOU NEVER CALLED ONE WRONG YOU CALL THAT ONE WRONG HE CALLED THAT ONE OFF. AND THIS IS THE ONE WHY I MEAN I MUST TELL YOU THEY'RE A LITTLE MORE ACCURATE AT LEAST YOU THEY HAVEN'T EVEN THAT A LOT OF PLACES HE'S EVEN WELL WE'RE NOT EVEN AWARE THAT IF THIS IS GONNA BE THE GREATEST VICTORY THIS IS A MORE IMPORTANT ELECTION FOUR YEARS AGO. ONE OF. BECAUSE AT NO TIME BEFORE HAS THERE BEEN A CLEAR CHOICE BETWEEN TWO PARTIES OR TWO VISIONS TWO PHILOSOPHIES TWO AGENDAS FOR THE FUTURE THERE'S NO NEVER BEEN ANYTHING LIKE THIS ON NOVEMBER THIRD NEVADA WILL DECIDE WHETHER WE WILL QUICKLY RETURN TO RECORD PROSPERITY LIKE WE HAD WE HAD THE GREATEST ECONOMY IN THE HISTORY NOT OF OUR COUNTRY. IN THE WORLD. WE WERE BEATING EVERYBODY WE WOULD MEETING CHINA. REMEMBER IF YOU GO BACK SOME OF YOU GO BACK. IF YOU GO BACK TEN YEARS FIFTEEN YEARS FIVE YEARS EVERYTHING WAS. IN TWO THOUSAND NINETEEN CHINA WILL OVERTAKE THE UNITED STATES IS THE LARGEST ECONOMY AND THAT DIDN'T WORK OUT TOO WELL FOR THEM. THAT DIDN'T WORK OUT WE WERE WE WERE JUST. DOING LEAPS AND BOUNDS WE WERE DOING SO GREAT AND THEN WE GOT HIT WITH THE PLAGUE THE CHINA PLAY. AND IT WOULD NOT WE'RE NOT THRILLED. IT'S A DISGRACE NOBODY SHOULD HAVE DIED NOBODY SHOULD HAVE DIED WE GOT HIT THE WHOLE WORLD GOT HIT BUT THEY STOPPED IT FROM GOING INTO THE REST OF CHINA. THEY STOPPED IT FROM GOING INTO CHINA BUT THEY DIDN'T STOP IT FROM COMING INTO THE U. S. IN EUROPE AND A HUNDRED IN EIGHTY EIGHT COUNTRIES. SO WHETHER OR NOT WE ALLOW BIDEN TO IMPOSED THE BIGGEST TAX INCREASE IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY FOUR TRILLION DOLLARS WERE BANNED ERIC HE WAS A BEEN ENERGY HOG THAN AMERICAN HE WANTS TO STOP FRACKING HEY BY THE WAY WHEN HE WAS RUNNING AS A DEMOCRAT AND IN THE WORST DEBATE PERFORMANCES I'VE EVER SEEN. OKAY WHAT DO YOU THINK HE WAS UNABLE TO ANSWER ANYTHING ARE YOU AWAKE SIR SIR PLEASE WAKE UP AND WHO IS THE WORST WHO WHO TREATED HIM THE WORST. TAMALA COMMODITIES ANOTHER BEAUTY. SHE STARTED OFF AS A FAVORITE SHE WAS AT FIFTEEN THAT YOU WENT DOWN TO FOURTEEN TO TWELVE TO TEN. SHE WAS LIKE A DROP IN THE ROCK AND WATER SHE WAS GOING DOWN SO FAST. DID YOU WENT DOWN TO FIVE FLORIDA THREE TOOL AND THEN SHE SAID I COULD GET THE HELL OUT OF HERE JUST GET. AND NOBODY CHEATED HIM WORST INCOME ALL RIGHT SHE CALLED OPERATIONS YOU CALLED THEM EVERYTHING. SHE WAS HORRIBLE DYLAN. AND HE'S UNDER CHOOSE CAMALLO SHE'S JUST GREAT YEAH THESE PEOPLE THESE PEOPLE THEY ARE SUPPOSED TO CHOOSE THE PEOPLE THAT DID WELL. SHE GOT OUT BEFORE I WAS I REMEMBER SHE DID WANT TO RUN IN IOWA AND THEN BERNIE GOT AGAIN THIS GUY IS THE GREATEST LOSER EVER BECAUSE- NO NO. NO HE'S A GOOD SPORT BERTIE CRAZY BERNIE HE'S SO CRAZY. WHAT IS A GOOD SPORT BECAUSE- YOU KNOW WITH HILLARY. THEY REALLY DID DO WE HAVE ANY YOUNG CHILDREN HERE I KNOW IT'S ON A LOT OF TELEVISION. DID YOU JUDGE TELEVISION OFF JUST FOR A MINUTE JUST FOR ABOUT THREE SECONDS HE GOT SCREWED RIGHT. OKAY NOW YOU CAN TURN IT BACK ON. BUT THEN THE REALLY DID WITH THIS LAST ONE BECAUSE OF POCAHANTAS. ELIZABETH WARREN. IF YOU ONE OF LEFT THE RACE. ONE DAY BEFORE THE BIG SUPER TUESDAY SHE AMID BERNIE WOULD HAVE HER PHILOSOPHY RIGHT LIBERALS BY THE WAY YOU KNOW IS MORE LIBERAL THAN BURNING CAMALLO. SHE'S RATED THE NUMBER ONE MOST LIBERAL BUT THIS IS NOT FOR NEVADA THIS IS NOT. AND I WOULD SAY SHE'LL BE PRESIDENT IF HE EVER WANTS TO BE PRESIDENT WITHIN THE FIRST MONTH OR SO I WOULD SAY. I THINK IT'S JUST AN EXCUSE USING HIM IS JUST AN EXCUSE TO GET THE SUPER LIVES IN THERE. SO THEY CAN DESTROY OUR SUBURBS DEMOLISH OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. A RACE YOUR BORDERS. AND INDOCTRINATE YOUR CHILDREN WITH POISONOUS ANTI AMERICAN LIVES IN SCHOOL. SO ONE OF MY LEADERSHIP WE BUILT THE GREATEST ECONOMY IN THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD AND NOW WE'RE DOING IT AGAIN WE'RE DOING IT AGAIN. AND WE'RE DEVELOPING A VACCINE IN RECORD TIME. IT WOULD BE READY BEFORE THE END OF THE YEAR AND MAYBE MUCH SOONER THAN THAT THEY'RE VERY UNHAPPY ABOUT THAT. YOU KNOW IT'S AMAZING. WE HAVE A COUPLE OF REALLY GREAT EXTRAS ONE WHOSE WE CALL A DOCTOR SCOTT YOU KNOW I'M TALKING ABOUT HE'S GOING HE SAID YOU KNOW THIS THE ONLY TIME THEY WERE GRILLING THEM ON TELEVISION A WELL THE VACCINE IS GOING TOO FAST YOU KNOW WHY THE SERVICE BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT TO HAPPEN BEFORE THE ELECTION. HE SAID YOU KNOW THIS THE ONLY THING IN THE WORLD I'VE NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT. EVERYBODY WANTS TO VACCINE. AND WILL WE START GETTING IT FAST BECAUSE PRESIDENT TRUMP HAPPENS TO BE PRESIDENT AND WE'VE DONE THIS IN RECORD TIME. YEARS AHEAD OF SCHEDULE IF THIS WERE SLEEPY JOAN OBAMA YOU WOULD NEVER VACCINE FOR THREE YEARS. BUT LISTEN. YOU SHOULD IS THE CRAZIEST THING SO YOU'RE GONNA HAVE A VACCINE QUICKLY RIGHT. AND EVERYBODY'S UPSET ABOUT IT. SO NOW THEY'RE TRYING TO. HURT THE VACCINE. AND THEY'RE TRYING TO SAY IS MANY BETTER THEY'RE NOT THINKING ABOUT IT. BUT THEY'RE TRYING TO HURT IT. AND IT'S A SHAME BUT HE SAID IT BETTER THAN ANYBODY EVER HE SAID YOU KNOW. YOU'RE TRYING TO HURT THIS COUNTRY. BY SAYING BAD THINGS ABOUT THE VACCINE. BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO PRODUCE EARLY. IT'S THE CRAZIEST THING THINK ABOUT IT. NOT HAVING A VACCINE IS GOOD BUT WE'RE ROUNDING THE TURN REGARDLESS WE'RE ROUNDING THE TURN. AND IT'S HAPPENING. WHEN IT'S HAPPENING YOU SEE. FLORIDA WAY DOWN. TEXAS IS NOW WAY DOWN ARIZONA. GOVERNOR'S DONE A GREAT JOB ALL THREE GOVERNORS HAVE DONE A GREAT JOB. AND LOUISIANA NOW THAT A SPIKE BUT THAT THE SPIKE. BUT THE SPIKE WAS ABLE TO BE. BECAUSE NOW WE UNDERSTAND WHAT WE DID WE SAVE MILLIONS RELY. BECAUSE I. TO DO IT BUT WE HAD CLOSE IT UP. I UNDERSTAND THIS DISEASE AND THAT OPENED UP AGAIN AND WE OPENED BUT WE WOULD AT TWO MILLION TWO AND A HALF OR THREE MILLION PEOPLE THINK OF IT. WE'RE AT LIKE AROUND A HUNDRED AND EIGHTY THOUSAND FOR JUST. ONE IS TOO MANY. ONE TOO MANY. BUT WE WOULD HAD TWO AND A HALF THREE THREE AND A HALF MILLION PEOPLE IT WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN ACCEPTABLE WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN SUSTAINABLE. WE'VE DONE AN INCREDIBLE JOB AND THESE PEOPLE THAT HAVE DONE IT WITH ME THE VENTILATORS THE VACCINES THE THERAPEUTIC. THESE PEOPLE. I'M IN THE HOSPITALS THE BEDS THAT WE BUILT. THIS THAT WE SENT THE NEW YORK. THE SHIPS ARE WE SET JOB AND I'M GRATEFUL GOVERNOR IN NEW YORK CUOMO KAVANAUGH GRATEFUL GOVERNOR WE SENTIMENTS SHIPS. WE SENT THEM SHIPS WE SENT THEM WE BUILT THE CONVENTION CENTER WITH TWO THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED BEDS AND HE DIDN'T USE THE BEDS FOR SENIOR CITIZENS. HE HARDLY USE THE BEDS ITALY HARDLY USE THE SHIPS AT ALL. HE SAID WE DID A PHENOMENAL JOB AND NOW AGAINST POLITICAL HE WANTS TO GET POLITICAL WITH BE. AT REALIZE GUY BUT THAT'S OKAY YOU'VE GOT TO SEE WHAT THEY ARE DOING BETWEEN HIM AND THAT THE BLASI OH THAT'S ANOTHER BEAUTY. WHAT THEY'VE DONE TO MY BEAUTIFUL CITY I LOVE THAT CITY SO MUCH WHAT THEY'VE DONE IS SO HORRIBLE THE HIGHEST TAXES IN THE LAND. CRIME ALL OVER THE PLACE- LIKE 3100% UP IN CRIME. WE NEED READY TO COME OUT OF RETIREMENT. BUT WE'RE DEFEATING THE CHINA VIRUS WHEN BIDEN WAS VICE PRESIDENT HE WAS A COMPLETE DISASTER OF THE SWINE FLU WHICH WAS A MUCH EASIER THING TO HANDLE JOE BIDEN'S OWN CHIEF OF STAFF. SAID THAT WOULD BIDEN MATTED SWINE FLU TWO THOUSAND NINE THEY QUOTE DID EVERY POSSIBLE THING WRONG THIS IS THE GUY THAT WORK FORMER JUDGE OF THE SWINE FLU. AND SIXTY MILLION AMERICANS GOT H. ONE N. ONE. IT APPEARED OF TIME IT'S JUST PURELY A FORTUNE HE SAID IT WAS JUST WE WERE LUCKY HE SAID IT'S JUST LUCKY THAT THERE WEREN'T GREAT MASS CASUALTIES DIFFERENT KIND OF A DISEASE A LITTLE BIT. AND WHAT HE SAID IS AMAZING HE SAID WE DID NOTHING RIGHT. THIS IS THE MAN IS GOING TO TELL US ALL ABOUT BUILDING VENTILATORS YOU THINK JOE'S GOING TO BE ABLE TO BUILD THOUSANDS OF VENTILATORS A MONTH WHICH THAT WE'RE DOING AND SENDING UP TO ALL THESE COUNTRIES ALL OVER THE WORLD. WHO HAVE NO HOPE OF BUILDING VENTILATORS AND THEY NEED HIM BADLY. SO YOU KNOW. IT'S AN AMAZING THING THE OUTBREAK. WAS SO RAMPANT. THAT OBAMA BIDEN THE ADMINISTRATION TOLD STATES TO STOP TESTING IMMEDIATELY AND THEY ORDERED THE CDC TO STOP COUNTING CASES BECAUSE THEY LOOK LIKE L. OKAY. WE DIDN'T DO THAT WE HAVE BY THE WAY THE REASON WE SHOW SO MANY CASES BECAUSE WE HAVE THE BEST TESTING PROGRAM IN THE WORLD BY FAR. BY FAR. WE JUST NEED MORE PEOPLE THAN INDIA THEN MANY MANY BIG COUNTRIES PUT TOGETHER INDIA'S SECOND WERE FORTY FOUR MILLION TESTS AHEAD OF INDIA. THEY HAVE ONE POINT FIVE BILLION PEOPLE AND PRIME MINISTER MODI COSBY'S AND WHAT A JOB YOU'VE DONE WITH TESTING A SAID EXPLAINED THAT TO THESE THAT JUST OTHERS PEOPLE BACK. BIDEN IS RECORD DEMONSTRATES THAT IF HE HAD BEEN IN CHARGE ONE THE CHINA VIRUS ARRIVED. HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF MORE AMERICANS WOULD HAVE DIED AS VICE PRESIDENT HE PRESIDED OVER THE WORST OF THE WEAKEST IN THE SLOWEST ECONOMIC RECOVERY SINCE THE GREAT DEPRESSION YOU'VE HEARD THAT BEFORE IT WAS THE MOST PATHETIC RECOVERY SINCE THE DEPRESSION NO STATE WAS IT HARDER BY. BIDEN SAID HERE'S THE NEVADA AND I WAS OUT HERE AND HE WAS THAT'S RIGHT ABOUT THAT I WOULD DAY YOU GOT IT ALL RIGHT. THIS IS NOT THE GUY YOU WANT BUT UNDER MY ADMINISTRATION BEFORE THE VIRUS WE QUICKLY ACHIEVE THE LOWEST UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IN THE HISTORY OF THE VADA AND WILL SOON HAVE A BACK THERE AGAIN. WE'LL SOON HAVE IT BACK HERE AGAIN BUT I HOPE EVERYBODY HERE TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND PEOPLE WHATEVER THAT WOULD IS INCLUDING. THOSE PEOPLE BACK THERE THEY'RE ANGRY AT ME I DO
. SORRY. YEAH. THE.  THE DAY. THANK YOU VERY MUCH THANK. WE COULD BE WITH YOU. AND A VERY SPECIAL HELLO NEVADA. TO BE HERE WITH YOU IN HENDERSON THOUSANDS OF LOYAL HARD WORKING GREAT AMERICAN PATRIOT. FIFTY ONE DAYS FROM NOW WE'RE GOING TO WIN THE BATTLE. AND THEN WE WENT. OR MAYBE ABOUT THE FORMER SO. WELL THANK YOU VERY MUCH YOU KNOW WHENEVER I SAY THAT I WATCHED WOULD ROLL THAT NEWS BACK. THERE A LITTLE BIT. THREE WHEN I SAY THAT THEIR HEADS EXPLODE. OUR MOVEMENT IS PRO JOBS PRO WORKER PRO POLICE AND 1100% PRO AMERICAN. WE BEGIN IT'S A WITH TWO SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES LOS ANGELES WHO WERE FIGHTING FOR THEIR LIVES WHEN A VICIOUS CRIMINAL WALKED UP TO THE VEHICLE AND SHOT THEM AT POINT BLANK RANGE. TONIGHT WE SEND OUR LOVE AND OUR SUPPORT TO THEIR FAMILIES AND WE PRAY TO GOD FOR THEIR RECOVERY. THE RADICAL LEFT IN AMERICA IS WAGING OPEN WAR ON LAW ENFORCEMENT. HUNDREDS OF OFFICERS NATIONWIDE HAVE BEEN INJURED IN LEFT WING RIOTS AND MOB YOU SEE IT YOU SEE IT ALL THE TIME PLEASE OF. PLEASE LET'S HAVE A LITTLE FUN WE GOT PLENTY OF TIME I MEAN. WHAT DO WE HAVE GOOD BULLS BORING AS HELL. THIS IS NOT THE SAME RIGHT. USED TO BE SAID HE WOULD SAY COULD YOU KEEP IT AWAY FROM THE FOOTBALL GAME NOW THEY SAY COULD YOU POSSIBLY DO IT DURING A FOOTBALL GAME. WE HAVE SOME FREE TIME. BUT DURING VIOLENT DEMONSTRATIONS IN LAS VEGAS A TWENTY NINE YEAR OLD POLICE OFFICER YOU KNOW THIS VERY WELL WAS DELIBERATELY SHOT THE HEAD LEAVING THE YOUNG BRAVE OFFICER PARALYZED. YET SLEEPY JOE BIDEN AND HIS SUPPORTERS CONTINUE THEIR DANGEROUS WATER ON THE. THEY'RE PUTTING THE LIVES OF OUR BRAVE OFFICES DIRECTLY IN HARM'S WAY AT HIS CONVENTION HE NEVER EVEN MENTION THE WORDS LAW AND ORDER NEVER MENTIONED HIM ONCE NOW IT'S ALL OF A SUDDEN HIS BALLS ARE DROPPING LIKE A ROCK AND YOU START TO SAY. WELL WE NEED LAWYER. AND THEN HE GOES BACK INTO THE BASEMENT FOR FOUR DAYS WHAT HAPPENS BECAUSE- I KNOW WHAT HAPPENS TO. HE SHOT THAT'S WHAT HAPPENS BILL. EVERY ONCE IN AWHILE THE GREAT DANA WHY DOES ANYBODY BILL. HE'S GOT SOME CHAMPIONS WITH THEM TONIGHT YOU KNOW IS YOU'RE GOING TO DO THIS AND BUT HE'S GOT BUT EVERY ONCE IN AWHILE I'LL ASK HIM WHAT HAPPENED TO THAT GUY HE SAID SIR HE'S BEEN SHOT FOR THE LAST. LONG TIME SURE LEFT A LONG TIME AGO. THAT'S JOE BIDEN. JOE BY. SHOT AND EVERYBODY KNOWS IT. AND YOU KNOW WHAT THEY OUGHT TO BE ASHAMED. BECAUSE THEY DO INTERVIEWS WITH THEM THEY GIVE THEM THE QUESTIONS AND THEY LET HIM READ THE ANSWER FROM A TELEPROMPTER AND THAT'S THE FACT. IT IS THE OTHER DAY GOOD YOUR A MOVE THAT A LITTLE BIT CLOSER SEE THESE THINGS. MOVEMENT BUT I MUST TELL YOU. AT GREAT PERIL. I USNM SELDOM. BUT THOSE ARE THE TIMES WE HAVE THE BEST PHONE TO I WILL. I SLOW AND THAT'S ACTUALLY WHAT WE LEARN THE MOST FOR THE ENTIRE SUMMER. BIDEN WAS SILENT AS LEFT WING MOBS ASSAULTED POLICE OFFICERS. WHEN BIDEN AS FAR LEFT SUPPORTERS SET FIRE TO POLICE CARS AND- PRECINCT STATIONS COURTHOUSES JOE BIDEN CALL THEM PEACEFUL PROTESTERS RIGHT THANK ALL OF HIS APPROACH. AND YOU KNOW WHEN WE GO TO THESE RADICAL LEFT PLACES ARE HAVING PROBLEMS BECAUSE EVERYONE LOOK AT THE TOP TEN. YOU GO BACK GO TOP TWENTY TOP THIRTY TAKE A LOOK DEMOCRAT RUN RADICAL LEFT WING DEMOCRAT USUALLY RUN. NOT REPUBLICAN RUN DEMOCRAT RUN AND WE GO BACK AND WE TAKE A LOOK. WE WANT TO GIVE THEM HELP THEY DON'T WANT TO HELP. BUT WHEN THEY DO ASK FOR HELP AND WHAT THEY DO WE GO IN LIKE MINNEAPOLIS THE NATIONAL GUARD ONE AND- THE THIRTY FIVE MINUTES TO QUELL. A SITUATION THAT WENT ON. TWO WEEKS. WE KNEW WE WERE GOING IN. THE SEATTLE WE TOLD WE'RE GOING IN TOMORROW MORNING AND SO THEY SAID THE MEN THEY DIDN'T WANT THAT TO HAPPEN AND WE LET THE PROTESTERS NOW OR WHATEVER YOU FROM THERE REALLY ANARCHIST AND I PROTESTS. SO WE LET THE AMERICANS KNOW THAT WE WERE GOING IN WITH APPROXIMATELY TEN THOUSAND VERY TOUGH PEOPLE. AND THEY IMMEDIATELY RAISED THEIR HANDS IN THE SEATTLE POLICE WHO BY THE WAY COULD DO A GREAT JOB IF THEY WERE LEFT TO DO THEIR JOB BUT THEY'RE NOT. AND ARE. AND AS YOU KNOW IN PORTLAND THE OTHER DAY WE HAD TO SEND IN THE U. S. MARSHALS A MAN WHO'S A BAD GUY BAD GUYS SHOT SOMEBODY RIGHT THE MIDDLE OF THE STREET WHO THEY SAY WAS A VERY FINE YOUNG MAN SHOT AND KILLED A- COTTAGES SHOT A MIKE. WAS ON TELEVISION. TWO AND A HALF DAYS NOTHING HAPPENED I SAID WHAT'S GOING ON WE SENT IN THE U. S. MARSHALS. IT WAS TAKEN CARE OF IN FIFTEEN MINUTES OKAY. WHEN HE WOULD CUT POLICE FUNDING. SO WOULD BE JOE SAID ABSOLUTELY YES I WOULD NOW HE'S TRYING TO CHANGE HIS MIND GIVE US A GUY HE CHANGED HIS MIND ON FRACKING. OKAY THERE WILL BE NO FRACKING YOU KNOW THAT HE WENT ALL THROUGH THE BUT- HE DOESN'T EVEN KNOW WHAT FRACKING IS AGO. HE WAS TOLD TO SAY THAT BY BURNING IN THE RADICAL LEFT AND HIS VICE PRESIDENT BY THE WAY HOW BADLY SHE- IS THE WORST. YOU KNOW WE'RE GONNA HAVE A WOMAN PRESIDENT SOME DAY. NOT GONNA BE OUR. AND THAT'S NO WAY TO ATTAIN THE OFFICE WE GOT IN THERE. BECAUSE IT WOULD BE JOE COULDN'T HANDLE IT ANYMORE. YOU KNOW JOE IS BAD IN FRONT OF SHOULD THE REASON I CAN TALK SO BADLY ABOUT BECAUSE HE DID AN AD. WHERE HE HAD ME STANDING OVER THE GRAVE. AND THE GRAVES OF OUR FALLEN HEROES FOR MANY YEARS AGO. AT AND THEY SENATE NOBODY LOVES A MILITARY MORE WITH WHAT I'VE DONE FOR THE TWO AND A HALF TRILLION DOLLAR. WE HAVE RESIGNING HORRIBLE THINGS IN FRONT OF OTHER PEOPLE NOBODY WOULD HAVE PUT UP WITH THAT. IT WAS TOTALLY IT'S CALLED DISINFORMATION THEY MAKE UP A TOTAL LIFE THEY PUT IT OUT THEN THEY DO A- SHOW ONCE YOU DID THAT I SAID NOW I REALLY LOOK IT'S OKAY. IT'S OKAY BECAUSE NOW THE GLOVES ARE OFF I CAN SAY THAT THIS MAN. IS TOTALLY. OKAY HE'S TOTALLY- YOU CAN'T BE A PRESIDENT YOU KNOW I'VE GOTTEN TO KNOW PRESIDENT XI OF CHINA I'VE GOTTEN TO KNOW PRESIDENT PUTIN OF RUSSIA BY THE WAY GETTING ALONG WITH THEM IS GOOD WELL THE CHINA I MUST TELL YOU. GOT A REAL PROBLEM WITH CHINA WHAT THEY DID WITH US. YOU CAN NEVER FORGET THAT WE MADE A GREAT TRADE DEAL THE INK WASN'T DRY WHEN THE PLAGUE CAME IN FROM CHINA. THEY STOPPED IT FROM GOING INTO CHINA BUT THEY DIDN'T STOP IT FROM GOING IN. OUR COUNTRY EUROPE AND THE REST OF THE WORLD OKAY THEY COULD HAVE DONE THAT. BUT YOU SEE A I DO WITH ALL OF THESE PEOPLE AND THEIR THEY DON'T HAVE THE KIND OF MENTAL PROBLEM THAT. WOULD BE JOE HAS. NEVER SHOW. KIM JONG MOON KIM JONG MOON DOESN'T KNOW ABOUT THE PROBLEMS THAT JOE HAS. WE NEED VERY SHARP PEOPLE I'M SORRY JOE IS NOT QUALIFIED FOR THIS POSITION. ABOLISHING CASH BAIL ENCLOSING YOUR PRISONS YOU WASH YOUR CLOTHES PRESIDENT. AND EVEN CALLED LAW ENFORCEMENT THE ENEMY RECENTLY SO THAT THE ENEMY UNTIL HIS POST ON TO DROP AND THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN GENERAL WE LOVE LAW ENFORCEMENT I THINK I'VE GOTTEN EVERY MAJOR LAW ENFORCEMENT GROUPS IN THE COUNTRY. GARTH USER RECENTLY I GOT NEW YORK'S FINDS THAT THEY ARE NEW YORK FUND IS BUT THEY'RE NOT ALLOWED TO DO THEIR JOB THEY'RE NOT ALLOWED WE HAVE A RADICAL LEFT MAYOR WHO HAS NO CLUE. YES NO. WHAT'S HAPPENING TO THAT POOR CITY I LOVE THAT CITY WHAT'S HAPPENING TO THAT CITY 3100% OUT BUT LOOK 3100% IN CERTAIN VERY BAD CRIMES NEW YORK THERE'S NO REASON FOR THIS AND WE HAVE THE GREATEST POLICE THE GREAT NEW YORK'S FINEST ENDORSEMENT CHICAGO. FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE CHICAGO ENDORSEMENT. OKLAHOMA INDOORS TEXAS YOUR SCHOOL HE GOES. EVERY PLACE YOU BROOKS. AND IF YOU THINK IT'S EASY FOR NEW YORK AND CHICAGO IN THESE DIFFERENT PLACES OHIO INDOORS THREE IF YOU THINK IT'S EASY FOR THESE GUYS THAT NEVER ENDORSED NEW YORK THEY SAID THEY CANNOT REMEMBER EVER HAVING ENDORSED A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE THE ENDORSEMENT AND THEY'RE GOING AGAINST THEIR RADICAL LEFT CULTURE THAT'S DESTROYING THE CITY. SO I WAS VERY HONORED BUT HAVE NOT CHICAGO DO YOU THINK IT'S EASY FOR THESE GREAT BELIEVES IN CHICAGO DOOR DOORS IT'S NOT EASY. BUT THEY FELT THAT THEY HAD AN OBLIGATION TO DO SO I'M JUST IT JUST HAPPENED I'M JUST VERY HONORED BY. AND BIDEN. DIED POLICE CRUSADE MUST STOP IT'S GOTTA STOP IT'S GOTTA STOP NOW FURTHER MORE. THE CORPORATIONS THESE POOR STUPID PEOPLE THAT RUN THE YOU KNOW THEY GET PAID A LOT OF MONEY. THEY'RE WEAK INEFFECTIVE PEOPLE LET'S FACE IT IF FUNDING ANTI POLICE ORGANIZATIONS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE. IT'S ABOUT ITS SO EMBARRASSING AND I DON'T MEAN FOR A LITTLE. LIKE THEY GAVE A HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS AND TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY MINUTES. YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT SERIOUS MONEY. YOUR ABOUT SIR BUT THAT MONEY NOT USED FOR GOOD REASONS AT THE STUPID CORPORATIONS AT THEY'LL BE THE FIRST TO GO OF THE RADICAL LEFT DEMOCRAT THEY THROW THOSE GUYS OUT LIKE THEY WERE NOTHING. IF THEY WERE LUCKY THEY JUST BE THROWN OUT. IT WOULD PROBABLY BE A LOT ROUGHER THAN THAT THESE PEOPLE DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE GETTING INTO. BUT INSTEAD OF GIVING MONEY THEY SHOULD GIVE MONEY TO THE FAMILIES OF THE CRIME VICTIMS OF THE FALLEN OFFICER. SO. IN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY KNOW THAT POLICE OFFICERS ARE NOT VILLAINS BUT HEROES WHO RISKED THEIR LIVES TO KEEP US SAFE AND THEY GUARD YOU KNOW THE THING THAT'S INCREDIBLE I KNOW SO MANY POLICE THIS OF THE ONE BAD APPLE AND THEY'RE ON FOR MONTHS ONE BAD APPLE TO GO ON FOR MONTHS THE THOUSANDS AND TENS OF THOUSANDS OF GOOD THINGS NOBODY TALKS ABOUT IT THESE ARE GREAT PEOPLE THAT HAVE DONE A GREAT JOB AND WE HAVE TO SUPPORT OUR LAW. ENFORCEMENT. SO ONE IT WOULD. THE MYSTIC CAVERNS. AND MY PLAN IS TO ARREST DOMESTIC TERRORISTS. AND WE ALSO BELIEVE THAT IF YOU MURDER A POLICE OFFICER YOU SHOULD RECEIVE THE DEATH PENALTY.  ARE YOU STILL A VIDEO OF THAT ANIMAL THAT WENT UP TO THE CAR DID EVERYBODY SEE THAT. IS ANIMAL THIS ANIMAL GOES UP TO THE CAR. TO UNSUSPECTING FINE PEOPLE THERE WAS ABOUT FIVE PEOPLE. I MEAN THEY'RE VERY GRAVE CONDITION AS YOU KNOW FINE PEOPLE. HE'S AN ANIMAL. ERIC ALDERMAN ANIMAL AND I WAS CRITICIZED BY PEOPLES CALLING HIM AN ANIMAL THE CITY'S HUMAN BEING IS NOT A HUMAN. IS AN ANIMAL IS NOT A HUMAN BEING. JOE BIDEN OPPOSES THE DEATH PENALTY EVEN FOR COPS WHO. IN BOOK YOU HAVE TO SEE HE REFER THESE COP KILLERS WHO GO AROUND THE PREDATORS THEY MURDERED CHILDREN. PEOPLE LIKE THE BOSTON BOMBER HE OPPOSES THE DEATH PENALTY FOR THE BOSTON BOMBER HE WANTS TO GIVE. PRISONERS OF VOTERS HE WANTS TO HAVE THE BOSTON BOMBER BE ABLE TO VOTE I DON'T THINK SO. I DON'T. I DON'T THINK SO YOU KNOW WHO'S UNDER THAT BERNIE SANDERS CRAZY BERNIE HE WANTS TO HAVE. CRAZY BERNIE SAYS DON'T KNOW THEY HAVE TO VOTE SO THEY AS WELL. DOES THAT MEAN EVERY AVERAGE EVERYBODY THAT'S IN PRISON SHOULD BE ENTITLED TO A VOTE RIGHT. SO THEY ACTUALLY SAID WELL WHAT IS THAT WHAT ABOUT THE BOSTON BOMBERS SHOULD HE BE ENTITLED. A BIRDIE BECAUSE- YEAH YEAH YEAH HE SHOULD BE ABOUT. WHERE IS CRAZY BUT YOU KNOW THE FACT IS THAT WE GOT A LOT OF BERTIE VOTES FOUR YEARS AGO BECAUSE BERTIE'S RIGHT ABOUT ONE THING STRAIGHT. BECAUSE ALL OF THESE COUNTRIES FRIEND AND FOE THEY RIP OFF THE UNITED STATES WE'VE WE HAVE MADE SO MANY GREAT TRADE DEALS. AND YOU SEE IT. YOU SMCA GET RID AFTER SO MANY. BUT BIDEN TOO WEAK TO BE PRESENT AND HE'S NOT A SMART PERSON AND BY THE WAY. HE WASN'T SMART TWENTY FIVE YEARS AGO. EVERYBODY KNOWS. NOW WE DON'T EVEN HAVE TO DISCUSS THE MATTER. WHAT I WAS GOING TO SAY WHAT HE PUT THAT ADD UP HE TOLD TO TAKE IT DOWN WHEN HE PUT THAT IT UP THAT DISHONORED OUR FALLEN HEROES THERE ARE GREAT GREAT HEROES OF MINE OF YOURS OF EVERYBODY'S I KNOW REALLY BAD PEOPLE. NO BAD PERSON THE WORST PERSON ANALYSIS. I KNOW SOME BEAUTIES FROM NEW YORK. I KNOW SOME. THE IN NEW YORK ACTUALLY. NOBODY WOULD SAY WHAT THEY SAID THEY MADE IT UP IT WAS A MAJOR SAY FOR THE UP IS IN THE FORM OF A AD FROM A THIRD RATE MAGAZINE HIS BEST FRIEND OBAMA. WHO BY THE WAY BY THE WAY. BY THE WAY GOT CAUGHT SPYING ON MY CAMPAIGN. WE GOT A GOLD WE HAVE THEM CALL NOW LET'S SEE WHAT HAPPENS.  NOW THE REPUBLICANS YOU KNOW IT'S INTERESTING WE HAVE MUCH BETTER POLICY BUT THE REPUBLICANS. THEY DON'T FIGHT LIKE COLBY. YOU KNOW GO OVER YEARS YOU'RE GOING TO SAVE A LOT OF CALLS. THEY DON'T FIGHT LIKE COLBY THAT IF I DO WIN THEY THINK JUST DONE IT WOULD BETTER POLICY. BUT THEY'RE NOT THEY'RE ONE OF THE VICIOUS STREAK. IF THIS WERE REVERSED IF THIS WERE REVERSED THEY WOULD BE IN JAIL FOR TWO YEARS ALREADY AND IT WOULD BE FOR A FIFTEEN YEAR TERM FOR TREES AND THAT'S WHAT IT WOULD BE. GOODBYES TO SCARED TO STAND UP. TO THE CRAZY SOCIALISTS AND NEVER WILL. HAVE THE STRENGTH. AT LEAST HE'S GOING DOWNHILL FAST. COULD BE VERY INTERESTING. AND YOU KNOW I CALLED FOR A DRUG TEST. BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHAT. I WANT TO DRUG TEST. BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT TO HAVE A SITUATION. LIKE WE COULD HAVE WITH THIS GUY I WATCHED AMID DEBATES WITH THE OTHER TWENTY FOUR LUNATICS. NO HE WAS SO BAD. YOU KNOW MAYBE A WIN BECAUSE THEY DON'T LIKE ME THEY DON'T LIKE MY PERSONALITY BUT I HATE TO SAY HOW MUCH YOU NEED. BIDEN NEVER DID WIN. HE WOULD SURRENDER YOUR CAR TO THE MALL YOU KNOW THE AND HE WILL HAVE NO TO DO WITH IT IS HIM EVERYTHING BEING HE'S GOT TO BE PUSHED AROUND AND SHE'S BY THE WAY SO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU GET SHOES. FAR MORE LIVE THAN AND HAVE A THAT'S WHAT YOU GOTTA. I DON'T THINK YOU'RE- IS. THAT BY. HELLO STAND HERE OF LAW. AND I'M VP HONORED TO HAVE GOT ALL OF THE INDOOR AT ME IS A BIG DEAL THAT TO ME IS A REAL A BIG AND IT'S ONE OF ALL OF THEM INCLUDING THE NATIONAL TROOPERS SO. AKALA JUST. WE ALSO RECEIVE. THE ENDORSEMENT TOTAL INCOME IN FROM THE SO ALLIANCE OF DIVERSE. I THE LAS VEGAS PER ASSOCIATION FROM NEVADA. AND I WANT TO THANK FOR THAT THE GRAMMAS WAS WITH US TONIGHT WHICH NEWS. STAY THANK YOU. THANK THAT'S A BIG DEAL MAKES THEY GET OUT OF THE DEBUTS THEY'RE PLAYING WITH BALANCE OKAY KNOW YOU'VE GOT. SO WE HAD MANY SITES BY THE WAY ALL. SITES OR SAID YOU HEAR THESE FIVE BACK WELL LOOK AT THE- TODAY YOU'RE TO HEAR THE- THEY'LL SAY ALL IT WAS A- WELL THE- WHY. WE HAD. FIVE SO. WELL OUT. SITES LIKE LAST NIGHT TWO MEN ROOM. AT A GREAT JOB WHO OWNS IS BUILDING SAY YOU KNOW WHAT WHAT THEY DO IS RE UNFAIR. YOU CAN USE BUILDER DOT. THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT ELECTION. IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY. AT NO TIME BEFORE HAS THERE BEEN A- CHOICE BETWEEN TWO PARTIES DIVISIONS TO PHILOSOPHIES VILLAGES AND THAT'S- FOR THE FUTURE. JOE BIDEN HAS SPENT THE LAST FORTY SEVEN YEARS SELLING OUT AMERICA LOOK AT WHAT HE'S DONE EVERYTHING IS DONE WAS WRONG HE ALWAYS VOTED THE WRONG WAY. EVEN HIS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE IS SECRETARY OF STATE THEY SAID HE ALWAYS VOTED THE WRONG WAY. HE WAS OFF YOUR NEW JOBS THROWING OPEN YOUR BORDERS DEPLETING OUR MILITARY SACRIFICING CHILDREN'S FUTURE TO CHINA AND OTHER FARAWAY LANDS. I'VE SPENT THE LAST FOUR BASES. ONLY IN THE VATICAN YEAH. I WOULD NEVER SAY TO WHAT A USER. OKAY THIS WAY I CAN GET IN TROUBLE. I SPENT THE LAST FOUR YEARS BRINGING OUR JOBS BACK TO AMERICA SECURING OUR BORDERS REBUILDING OUR MILITARY. I'M STANDING UP IN CHINA LIKE NO I PRESS. IF BIDEN LIVES CHINA WARNS OF BIDEN THE WOULD IT BY WHEN THE RIGHTS ARE I'M NOT AT LOOK YOU SEE WHAT'S GOING ON. THEY ARE SENATE FLAG BURN SUB THE FLAG BURNING I LOVE. I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE A LITTLE. THIS IS SO WHAT'S ON WHEN I CDMA FLAG BURN I GETS ANGRY I GUESS ANGRY. I WOULD LOVE HAVE A LAW HAS TO GO THROUGH A- PROCESS. YOU BURN THE YOU GO TO JAIL ONE YEAR WOULD LOVE. TO SYRIA. I WOULD LOVE TO SAY. ONE HOUR AGO NGERS VOTERS SENATE RUGBY IN THERE WITH THAT ONE YOU KNOW THIS FREEDOM SPEECH THAT'S NOT VERY MYSTERY YOU THE FLAG YOU SHOULD GO TO JAIL FOR YEAR REALLY THINK THAT. THOSE HORRIBLE AGAINST FREE SPEECH NO. WHEN THE WE'RE NOT AGAINST SPEECH BUT I'M RUNNING FOR REAL TO BRING BACK THE TRUMP. PRESS THAT WE HAD BEFORE THE CAN HAS HAPPENING. I DON'T FOR YOU STATE I LOVE THIS STATE. AND I PUT A LOT OF MONEY IN THE STATE AND IT'S BEEN A GREAT INVESTOR AND WE WANTED. THIS STATE STRONG NOT FOR THAT REASON THE WAY. FOR OTHER REASONS THIS A GREAT. YOU HAVE A GUY RIGHT NOW IS A- HALF. WE WERE TO PUT VIA DRIVEN BEHIND BARS. AND YOU GOT JOHN OPEN UP YOUR STATE BY THE. YOU JUST SO YOU KNOW THESE SHUTDOWNS WE DID RIGHT THING WE HAD THE GREATEST ECONOMY IN THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD. THEY CAME IN SO I WE ALL SEE WHAT WAS HAPPENING WE CLOSED UP. AMID YOU KNOW THE YOUR PRESENT OVER THE GREATEST ECONOMY IN HIS. ERIC OF VERY SMART PEOPLE WALK INS OR- WE HAVE TO THE- AND WE DID THE RIGHT THING. WE IT WELL ACTUALLY DIDN'T THINK SHOULD CLOSE YET BUT ON. WE DID THE RIGHT THING WE CLOSED. WE CLOSE. WE SAVE ME OF. AND WE WOULD HAVE CLOSED WE WOULD HAVE BEEN TALKING TO ONE OF OR THREE WERE ONE EIGHT EXPIRE. WELL WE WOULD HAVE. WE WERE HAVE REJECTED ABOUT. IT WOULD HAVE BEEN UNDER. ANNOUNCES IT WOULD HAVE SO BAD THINK OF IT. WOULD ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY FOR. OTHER COUNTRIES. ARE DOING TERRIBLY DID YOU SEE THE STATE'S. OF US COME TO OTHER COUNTRIES US COME. TO YOUR- US BRIDGE. WE HAVE DONE AND- JOB GET AT. NO CREDIT FOR THE JOE WE'VE DONE. AND I DON'T WANT MY CELL. BUT I WANTED THREE AD. IN THE JAN. AND MIKE PENCE. THE JOE BIDEN WAS AGAINST IT REMEMBER WAS TOTALLY AGAINST LAWS ARE YOU SET ALL THERE TO OVER. OVER I WILL CLOTHES AND ELSE DID AT THAT NO ELSE TO I WAS WAY. YOU KNOW THEY SAY DID NOT. I WAS ONE ZERO NEXT PELOSI WAS MONTH AND A LATER SO. COME TO CHINA. JUDGE. CALLED IT. WE'RE GONNA BIDEN IS BEST YOU COULD HEAR THIS. BUT WE WANT TO ENSURE THE FUTURE. OF AMERICA NOT THE FUTURE OF CHINA AND OTHER COUNTRIES BECAUSE. IF WE WANT AMERICA WARNS. AND IT'S ALL ABOUT AMERICA FIRST YOU TO YOU THAT THE PRESIDENT SHOULD NEVER PUT AMERICA FLAGS THAT HAD FOR THE MARKET PLAYERS. THEY DIDN'T TAKE CARE OF OUR COUNTRY BUT WE'RE TAKING CARE OF OUR COUNTRY NOW JOE BIDEN DID NOT LEAD OUR COUNTRY. BECAUSE HE REALLY DOESN'T BELIEVE. TRULY IN OUR COUNTRY BUT I SORT OF THAT I THINK IT'S A VERY STRONG STATEMENT. I DON'T THINK HE HAS A CLUE OF THE HONEST. THE PEOPLE THAT PUSH HIM AROUND DON'T BELIEVE IN OUR COUNTRY. BECAUSE HE AGREED TO A MANIFESTO WITH CRAZY BERNIE RIGHT IT'S CALLED THE MANIFESTO YOU KNOW WHAT IS CALLED THE MANIFESTO BECAUSE THIS IS BEYOND SOCIALISM THIS IS A WORD THAT STARTS WITH THE C. NOT A- THAT'S WHERE THEY'RE COMING. THAT'S WHERE THEY'RE COMING FROM MID BIDEN CONVENTION DAY DECRIED AMERICA WICKED AND THEY WERE SAYING IT'S WICKED SINFUL IT'S DESTINED FOR A FATE OF DOOM AND DESPAIR THAT WAS BY THE WAY THAT WAS THE MOST THAT WAS THE MOST DEPRESSING CONVENTION WE HAD A GREAT CONVENTION. THEY ACTUALLY SAID AMERICA WAS IN GREAT. BUT ACTUALLY SHOWED THAT AMERICA WAS NEVER GREAT YOU KNOW SAID THAT CUOMO THE GOVERNOR OF. I DON'T KNOW IF HE'S GOING TO GET AWAY WITH THAT ONE THAT'S GOING TO THAT'S GOING TO HAUNT HIM. IT'S GOING TO ON. AMERICA WAS IN GREAT DEMAND IS- BROTHER FRED DON'T YOU EVER WATCH RIGHT. HIS RATINGS AREN'T VERY GOOD SO YOU PROBABLY DON'T. BUT WE KNOW THE TRUTH AMERICA'S THE MOST EXCEPTIONAL NATION ON EARTH AND OUR DESTINY IS BLESSED BY GOD. WE LOVE THIS NATION WITH ALL OF OUR SO. I WILL ALWAYS. TAKE CARE OF OUR NATION YOU KNOW WE HAVE A LITTLE EXPRESSION MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENED. AND YOU KNOW WE HAD IT DONE NOW I SAY MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN AGAIN. COMMA AGO COME UP AGAIN. AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DOING AT A RECORD CLIP THEY'VE NEVER HAD A CLIP LIKE THIS WITH THE JOBS AND EVERYTHING ELSE YOU SEE THE NUMBERS OF NOVEMBER THIRD. NEVADA WILL DECIDE WHETHER WE WILL QUICKLY RETURN TO RECORD PROSPERITY AND WE'RE DOING IT WOULD HAVE A TREMENDOUS YEAR NEXT YEAR. OR WHETHER WILL ALLOW JOE BIDEN AT THE GROUP OF. HANDLERS STILL IMPOSED A FOUR TRILLION DOLLAR TAX. BAN AMERICAN ENERGY DESTROY OUR SUBURBS DEMOLISH OUR SECOND AMENDMENT AND INDOCTRINATE YOUR CHILDREN WITH THE BUSH THIS ANTI AMERICAN LIVES.  HERE AGAIN_x000D_ AMERICA WOULD YOU PLEASE.  WE BUILT THE GREATEST ECONOMY IN THE WORLD IS GOING ON THE BOMB. AND NOW WE'RE DOING IT AGAIN. WE'RE DEVELOPING A VACCINE IN RECORD TIME THE OTHER ADMINISTRATION WOULD'VE BEEN YEARS AND WE'RE ALMOST THERE IT'S GOING TO BE ANNOUNCED VERY SOON WILL BE READY BEFORE THE END OF THE YEAR. AND WE WILL VERY EASILY DEFEAT THE CHINA VIRUS THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENING AND WE'RE ALREADY MAKING THAT TURN WILL MAKE IN THAT ROUND VIEW THE FULL LAST TURN BUT IT SHOULD NEVER HAPPEN CHINA SHOULD NEVER LET THAT HAPPEN THEY SHOULD HAVE STOPPED IT IN CHINA. UNDER MY ADMINISTRATION BEFORE THE VIRUS WE QUICKLY ACHIEVE THE LOWEST UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IN ABOUT ITS HISTORY AND WILL SOON BE THERE AGAIN. AND SEE WHAT'S HAPPENING. A GUY LIKE BIDEN WOULDN'T TOTALLY ERADICATE. NEVADA'S ECONOMY. HE WOULD MAKE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR YOU TO COMPETE AT IS ALREADY SET OF THE DOCTOR SUGGESTED IT WOULD SHUT DOWN THE COUNTRY AGAIN WE'RE NOT SHUTTING DOWN ACCOUNTS. A SHUTDOWN WILL DESTROY THE LIVES AND DREAMS OF TENS OF MILLIONS OF AMERICANS. LOOK THE AMERICANS YOU KNOW ON THE OTHER SIDE IF YOU LOOK AT THE SHUTDOWNS AND YOU'RE LIVING THROUGH IT RIGHT NOW YOU KNOW THERE AREN'T MANY STATES ARE TO SHUT DOWN THE ROLL DEMOCRATS NORTH CAROLINA YOUR STATE BUT NORTH CAROLINA WE'RE NOT YOU KNOW. YOU TAKE A LOOK AT NORTH CAROLINA PENNSYLVANIA SHUT DOWN EVERYONE OF THEM THAT ARE SHUT DOWN TO DOING NOT WELL THEY'RE NOT DOING WELL AND THEY ALL HAVE DEMOCRAT GOVERNORS AND YOU KNOW WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE SUICIDE RATES. WHEN YOU LOOK AT ALL OF THE SUICIDE ALL THE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE THE DRUGS ALL OF THE PROBLEMS WE CAN'T HAVE IT WE CAN'T HAVE IT OPEN UP YOUR STATE YOU'RE GOING TO OPEN UP YOUR SAY IT'S ALL POLITICAL. WHAT. IT'S ALL POLITICAL. ONE NOVEMBER FOR TELLING US WHAT OPEN UP THE STATE'S ARE ONLY DOING IT. TO AFFECT YOUR NOVEMBER THIRD GRADE ELECTION MOST IMPORTANT ELECTION. BIDEN WILL ALWAYS DO WHATEVER THE RADICAL LEFT'S DEMANDS AND IF ELECTED HIS RADICAL SUPPORTERS WON'T JUST BECAUSE YOU MAY AMID THE STREETS THEY'LL BE RUNNING THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE THE- OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND BY THE WAY THE UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT. AND WE WILL HAVE A VERY DIFFERENT COUNTRY YOU KNOW THE NEXT PRESIDENT PROBABLY WILL HAVE ANYWHERE ONE TWO THREE OR FOUR. SUPREME COURT JUSTICES SO. IF YOU WANT YOUR SECOND AMENDMENT IF YOU WANT TO LIVE. IF YOU WANT. SO MANY OTHER THINGS EVEN HAVING TO DO WITH YOUR MILITARY EVEN HAVING TO DO WITH THE EVENTS IF YOU WANT THINGS IF YOU WANT YOU'VE GOT A YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE THE COURT. BECAUSE YOU KNOW THE LESS THE TWENTY FIVE THIRTY FORTY YEARS THEY PUT ON HIS YOUNG PEOPLE AND THEY STAY A LONG TIME. OUR COUNTRY WILL NEVER BE THE SAME WILL NEVER BE ABLE TO RECOVER FROM IT SO YOU GOT TO GET OUT OF NOVEMBER THIRD OR EARLY VOTING YOU GOT TO GET OUT AND VOTE. AND YOU COULD SEND YOUR BALLOT AND THEN YOU HAVE TO CHECK THE BALLOTS COUNTED BECAUSE THEY MIGHT NOT CATCH ABOUT OF THE STATE THEY MAY NOT GET OUT YOUR BALANCE. BUT WE'LL LOOK INTO SAFE AND WE'RE GOING TO SAVE. AMERICA WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET THAT HAPPEN. SO WE'RE JOINED TONIGHT BY DO TERRIFIC. GRETCHEN WILL GET THE DATES THAT HAVE BEEN JUST INCREDIBLE AND THE JOB THEY'VE GOT JOHN YOU SEE IT I MEAN YOU STATED ALL THE WAY THE JOB THEY'VE DONE IN THE CAMPAIGN THAT THE PEOPLE THAT WERE VERY GOOD VERY TALENTED GREAT POLITICIANS AND THEY WON. WHERE IS IT THEN WELL. THERE ROTUMAN. THEN. AND WHERE WOULD YOU ALL THE WAY DOWN. AND JIM MARSHON TIM THANK YOU VERY MUCH. THANK YOU JIM. SO WE'RE BACKING YOU ALL THE WAY YOU GOT TO GET THEM AND WE NEED THE WE WILL TAKE BACK THE HOUSE. YOU KNOW WHY. BECAUSE PEOPLE CANNOT STAND THE. THEY DON'T LIKE NANCY PELOSI. EVEN THE WOMAN THAT OWNS THE BEAUTY PARLOR TWO HUNDRED CAN YOU BELIEVE. NANCY PELOSI IS A CUSTOMER TURNED AROUND SHE THOUGHT IT WAS DISGRACEFUL. BUT THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DEALING WITH A BUNCH OF PHONIES BUT YOU GUYS WE HAVE WE HAVE YOUR BACK A 100% MICHAEL YOU MAKE SURE. I ALSO WANT. INTRODUCING THANK YOU SENT A FANTASTIC JOB. OUR REPUBLICAN PARTY CHAIRMAN MICHAEL MCDONALD. AND A FRIEND OF MINE THANK YOU MICHAEL. YOUR FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL ADAM LAXALT. AND A PERSON WITH TREMENDOUS SPIRIT AND PERSONALITY TO PUT IT MILDLY. SHE'S TOUGH AND SHE'S BUT SHE'S VERY KIND SHE'S A GREAT PERSON KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE. THANK YOU KIMBERLY THANK YOU THANK YOU KIMBERLY. THE OWNER OF THE CHICAGO CUBS IT IS IN FIRST PLACE ALWAYS VERY HAPPY. THE RNC FINANCE CHAIRMAN TODD RICKETTS WHAT IS THE- CLARK THANK YOU GREAT. SO ONE THAT DEPENDS ON WHEN THE. ONE OF THE BEST PEOPLE EVER TO WORK FOR ME IN GOVERNMENT HE'S TOUGH HE'S SMART HE CAN BE MEASURES. BUT HE'S JUST FAIR MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE BUT HE IS A TALENTED GUY WITH TREMENDOUS ENERGY AND TREMENDOUS BRAIN POWER RICK GRINNELL. AND HERE IS AGAIN BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING TO TRY TO FIND OUT NO WATCHES GUIDE MANUFACTURE YOU KNOW THERE'S A MANUFACTURING BUILDING. AND OUTSIDE TWENTY FIVE TO THIRTY THOUSAND PEOPLE WOULD SAY WHAT THE HELL IS HE MANUFACTURED. RABIES MANUFACTURING TRUMP I DON'T KNOW. REMANUFACTURE SOMETHING GOOD THEY'RE GONNA BOY THEY'RE GOING TO BE GIVING YOU A- BUT AGAIN DONE THANK YOU VERY MUCH JOHN HEY. THANK YOU JOHN THANK YOU THE. ALSO A LAS VEGAS LEGEND RICK HARRIS AND RICK. YOU ARE ALLEGES GARCIA. GREAT JOB YOU'VE DONE A GREAT JOB YOU'VE DONE. A FRIEND OF MINE FOR A LONG TIME. YOU KNOW YEARS AGO HE WAS LOOKING FOR A PLACE GONNA KILL DISCHARGES QUICKLY YOUR MOTHER. HE WAS LOOKING FOR A PLACE AND THEY SAID WELL THAT'S WHAT'S NEVER GONNA MAKE IT IT'S TOO VIOLENT. THEY JUST DON'T KNOW HOW VIOLENT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AFFECTED. WHENEVER QUITE FIGURE THAT OUT. NO IT IS A DONALD EVER MAKE IT THERE'S NOBODY LIKE THIS GUY I'M TELLING YOU I ALWAYS SAY IT'S A GREAT SPORT WITHOUT HIM I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO I DON'T. KNOW IF YOU COULD I DON'T KNOW IF ANYTHING WOULD BACK IF HE COULD DO ANYTHING. HE IS SO SMART. SO TOUGH SO CONNING HE'S BEEN A FRIEND OF MINE FOR A LONG TIME I'VE BEEN A FRIEND OF HIS BUT I GAVE HIM A PLACE A LONG TIME AGO. AND ALL I KNOW IS JUST LIKE WE HAVE OUTSIDE WE HAD LINES I SAID WHAT THE HELL'S GOING ON HERE TODAY THAT THIS PLACE IS BACK. RIGHT WE WERE PACKED WITH THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE THAT COULDN'T GET IN. AND I WAS SO NICE. IS IT LET'S DO IT AGAIN DANA PLEASE. AND WE DID IT AGAIN. AND AGAIN. AND AGAIN. AND IT BECAME THE UFC AND HE SOLD IT AS A BIG CHUNK OF IT BUT HE GOT FOUR BILLION DOLLARS WHEN IT'S OVER. WHAT THAT'S NOT TOO BAD. THAT'S NOT TOO BAD. BUT HE REALLY IS HE'S AN INCREDIBLE GUY AND YOU KNOW HE ALSO LOVES IS FLAWED AS YOU WANT TO TAKE CARE OF IS FIGHTERS THAT HE BROUGHT SOME. APPROVAL OF THE BEST BUT I WANTED TO DO IS TO WHITE PLEASE. AND DANA BROUGHT ALONG A FEW OF HIS FRIENDS AND- THESE ARE NOT PEOPLE YOU WANT TO PICK A FIGHT WITH. BECAUSE UNDER THOSE BEAUTIFUL SUITS ARE A LOT OF MUSCLES A LOT OF POWER A LOT A LOT OF GENIUS. FOR FIGHTING AND FOR OTHER THINGS. BUT A LOT OF GENIUS ON OTHERS SINCE A FEW MEMBERS OF THE UFC. COMMUNITY SO HERE'S A MAN WHO'S BEEN HE USED TO WALK INTO THAT RING AND HE STILL DOESN'T. AS GOOD AS THERE IS IN THE WORLD NUMBER ONE. IN THE WORLD- YOU DON'T WANT TO PICK A FIGHT WITH HIM IN A BAR LET'S SAY HE HAD A FIGHT. AND YOU HAPPEN TO BE. COLBY COVINGTON USER WHAT'S YOUR NAME. HEY SEVEN INSTALLED BICKER OVER HERE. AND YOU KNOW THE FIRST TIMERS WILL PROBABLY COME AGAIN AND THEN CALLED THE HE WALKS INTO THE RING THAT HE WASN'T FIGHTING. BUT HE WALKED IN WITH THAT SAME HAPPENED YOU'RE WEARING. IT SAID. KEEP AMERICA IT SAYS MAKE AMERICA LET HE DOESN'T THERE'S ALWAYS AS TRUMP WANTED SOMEPLACE HE DOESN'T CARE. HE DOESN'T DISCRIMINATE. BUT THIS WAS THE SAME DAY THAT WE HAD. OUR CONSERVATIVE REPORTER BICKER HELD BY THAT WISE GUY WHO'S NOW IN BIG TROUBLE FOR DOING WHAT HE DID. AND THEN HE WALKS IN WEARING THAT NIGHT KEEP AMERICA GREAT. ANYWHERE IS THE HAT. AND HE'S GOING TO LIKE THIS BECAUSE THIS WAS A BIG STORE YOU REMEMBER WHAT THEY DID TO THAT GUY. CONSERVATIVE REPORTER NOT A FIGHTER HE WAS A FIGHTER. IF AND WE- TEN AGAINST. NOW CAN WE ATTEND. AGAINST THAT ONE THOSE TEN PEOPLE WOULD BE IN SERIOUS TROUBLE THEY SAID WHAT THE HELL. WHAT I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE COLBY COVINGTON GREAT FIVE. ONE OF THE. IS A GREAT FIGHTER. THREE MONTHS AGO SO INVITE A GUY HE LOOKED LIKE IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE TO BE A NOTICE OF MUSCLES YOUR MUSCLES ON MUSCLES OR MUSCLES. AND COMPANIES ARE VERY FIT GUY AND YOU KNOW FANTASTIC BUT HE DIDN'T LOOK QUITE THE SAME. IT WASN'T EVEN A CONTEST THAT WENT. A FEW ROUNDS AND IT WAS LIKE I COULDN'T BELIEVE WHAT HE DID HE TOOK APART SO EASILY WAS LIKE AN EASY DAY AT THE OFFICE. SO YOU HAVE TO EXPLAIN THAT THE REASON THEY CALL PEOPLE WE LOVE HIM AND YOU WITH US AND WHERE WOULD YOU. ANOTHER GREAT GREAT CHAMPION. ANOTHER GREAT CHAMPION HENRY SAY WHO WILL ALWAYS ONE OF THE BEST IN THE WORLD ATTEND RIPLEY SAID PLEASE ENTER IS. ARE YOU WON THE CHAMPIONSHIP TWICE RIGHT IN ONCE YOU WANTED TWICE HIS THEY'LL MESS WITH HIM. ALMOST WITH HIM AND HIS BROTHER ALONZO IS ZERO LINES OF CRUISE THANK YOU VERY MUCH ALONSO THANK YOU. OKAY. ANALYZER DOESN'T MESS WITH HIM HE LEARNED THAT A LONG TIME. SO ONE OF THE BEST FIGHTERS IN THE WORLD AND HE'S GOT A TREMENDOUS FIGHT COMING UP AGAINST I GUESS THE NUMBER ONE RATED- POUND FOR POUND FIGHTER. JUSTIN GAVE ME PLEASE STAND UP JUST. JUDGE GAUGING THANK YOU. I DO FEEL GOOD ABOUT THAT FIVE. HE SAID HE'S GOING TO NOT COME OUT WELL. WE'RE GOING TO BE WATCHING IT'S RIGHT BEFORE THE ELECTION BUT I THI I'M GOING TO BE WATCHING OKAY. I'LL BE WATCHING YOU BETTER BELIEVE THAT'S GOING TO BE AN INCREDIBLE FIGHT GOOD LUCK GOOD LUCK JUST GREAT FIGHTER. AND ALSO. HE'S A GREAT GUY. ONE OF THE BEST THANK YOU VERY MUCH. THESE ARE GREAT PEOPLE THEY HAVE SO MANY PEOPLE AT THE UFC AND THEY'VE BEEN BIG FANS OF US THEY LOVE OUR COUNTRY THEY LOVE OUR COUNTRY SO. AND WE LOVE THEM AND- NOBODY LIKE ARE DANA THANK YOU DID A VERY MUCH GREAT HONOR THANK YOU. TONIGHT WE'RE ALSO PRAYING FOR EVERYONE THROUGHOUT THE WEST AFFECTED BY THE DEVASTATING WILDFIRES. WE WANT REALLY FOREST MANAGEMENT WE ONE FOREST MANAGEMENT MY ADMINISTRATION. IS CLOSELY COORDINATING WITH THE STATE AND LOCAL LEADERS WITH THE GOVERNOR AND WE THANK THE MORE THAN TWENTY EIGHT THOUSAND FIREFIGHTERS AND FIRST RESPONDERS COURAGEOUSLY BRAVING THE THINGS AND A LOT. AND I'M GOING THERE TOMORROW I'LL BE GOING TO CALIFORNIA TOMORROW WE HAVE MEETINGS WITH FEMA. IT'LL BE IT'LL BE AMAZING TO SEE IT'S. LIKE THE BIGGEST WE'VE EVER HAD IT'S CRAZY IT'S CRAZY WHAT'S GOING ON. THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF ACRES IT'S CRAZY. SO WE'RE GONNA BE THERE TOMORROW WILL BE WITH THE GOVERNOR WE'RE ALSO GOING TO VARIOUS OTHER PLACES WE HAVE WASHINGTON ALSO IS IN BIG TROUBLE IN OREGON I SPOKE WITH THE GOVERNOR OF OREGON AND- THEY'RE HAVING. THEY'VE NEVER HAD ANYTHING LIKE IT. AND OF COURSE ALSO HAVE A CALLED PORTLAND AND WE WILL THAT FIRE OUT JUST TELL US TO PUT IT OUT. THAT'S WHY WE OPEN OUR- THAT'S EMOJI FIRED PUT OUT IT WOULD TAKE A LESS THAN HALF AN- WE'VE SPENT THE LAST FOUR YEARS REVERSING THE DAMAGE DONE BY. JOE BIDEN ALL OF THE DAMAGE THAT HIM AND HIS THOUGHT PROCESS HAS INFLICTED OVER A FORTY SEVEN YEAR PAIRED WITH PAST RECORD SETTING TAX CUTS AND RECORD SETTING REGULATION CUTS. WE ACHIEVED AMERICAN ENERGY INDEPENDENCE NOBODY THOUGHT IT WAS SET. WE'RE BIDEN LEADS TO ABOLISH THE PRODUCTION OF AMERICAN OIL IN JAIL AND CLEAN COAL AND NATURAL GAS WHICH IS VERY PLAIN. AND HE WANTED TO BAN FRACKING WE SAID NO WE'RE NOT DOING THAT FOR FORTY SEVEN YEARS BIDEN CRUSH THE DREAMS. OF AMERICAN WORKERS TO ENRICH FOREIGN COUNTRIES THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED. LOOK HE SAYS HE'S GONNA CHANGE HE'S BEEN THERE FOR FORTY SEVEN YEARS AND YOU KNOW THAT HE'S BEEN THERE TO THREE AND A HALF YEARS AGO SO IT'S NOT LIKE G. AS AND OTHERS AT WHAT. HE WAS THERE RECENTLY THEY DIDN'T DO IT AND YOU DON'T CHANGE AND YOU ALWAYS GO BACK TO THE FOR STATEMENT AND HIS FIRST ALBUM WAS ANTI RELIGION HIS FIRST LEG LEVELERS ANTI FRACKING AND ANTI ENERGY IS FIRSTLY. BECAUSE AFTER ALL OF THE THINGS BUT IT WAS REAL AND GUN ANTI AMENDMENT EVEN THIS WHAT. HE WOULD PUT DAY ROLL. THEY WE SHOULD BAN OVER SPANISH AS OF HOW DOES THE AGO WITH. THEY SAID WHAT HE WANTED THE SPANISH VOTE. SO IS FATHER CALLS AND DATA WHAT'S THAT DOES THAT SOUND A LITTLE BIT FUNNY BECAUSE WE HAD A POLL TODAY AND HISPANICS. ARE AT. 52% FOR TRUMP AND. FORTY WE'VE NEVER SEEN THAT BEFORE. I LOVE THE HISPANICS. WITH DEMOCRATS CHAMPION MASTER HE VP THE HORRIBLE SOUTH KOREA DEAL SOUTH KOREA DEAL HILLARY CLINTON CROOKED HILLARY SHE SAID WE WILL CREATE TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND JOBS OR IS IT ALL THE TIME WE WILL DO THIS DEAL WITH SOUTH KOREA WE WILL CREATE TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND AND SHE WAS RIGHT. WHAT THEY WOULD CREATE. CAREER THAT FOR US WE TO GET ANYTHING AND WE RENEGOTIATE. AND HE WAS THERE FOR CHINA'S ENTRY INTO THE WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EARLIER THIS YEAR I KEPT MY PROMISE TO AMERICAN WORKERS WHEN WE ENDED THE NIGHT AFTER NIGHT BAND WE SIGNED A BRAND NEW US MEXICO CANADA. IN THE LOWER GRADE HILLSBOROUGH. IT'S A GREAT DEAL I BY THE WAY OUR STOCK MARKET IS SETTING RECORDS I. HELLO. A PANDEMIC BUT HOPEFULLY AS WE ROUND THAT FINAL TURN ON THE PANDEMIC WAS SETTING RECORDS WITH THE STOCK MARKET YOUR FOUR OH ONE K.'S ARE DOING VERY WELL YOUR STOCKS ARE DOING VERY WELL. AND YOU KNOW WHAT IF SOMETHING WOULD HAPPEN WITH YOU TO GET IN AND IS AHEAD WOULD BELIEVE IT OR NOT THAT STOCK MARKET WOULD BE MUCH HIGHER. BUT THERE'S A HEAD WIND ON THE POSSIBILITY OKAY IT'S EVERYTHING'S A POSSIBILITY THERE'S A HEADWIND. BUT I'LL TELL YOU WHAT. IF YOU HAVE A GARDEN YOU WOULD HAVE A MARKET CR
 well thank you very much ohio thank you very much thank you you know this is really not a rally you know this this has to do with workers programs all the things we love but this is really we call it a friendly protest okay and you know what we're protesting we're protesting stupidity okay so many stupid things you see here but aloha i'll tell you what ohio how how good have you been how good have you been what did we win by a lot and your governor is here and he just said you're winning by a lot more this time than last time so that's good thank you mike thank you very much but hello ohio and thank you very much i'm thrilled to be here in dayton the home of the wright brothers wall i wonder what they would think when they see some of these f-35s and these crazy planes that we make nowadays ago thousands of miles an hour right they won i wonder but i want to just thank the the very hard-working patriots who are the backbone of america you really are you're the backbone of america this is an amazing group of people this is an amazing group you know i'm going to another very nice spot in ohio where we do have a rally but i can't imagine you have many more people that we have here but they will about 10 times more now this is for us and our friends and workers we want workers 43 days from now we are going to win this state we are going to win four more years in the white house that's true yeah it's true thank you thank you thank you you know you had your best year in the history of your state in the history of our country last year and we had it until the plague came in and now we're building it up again rapidly but you had the best year we're gonna have next year will be the best year we've ever had i believe that you'll see that in the third quarter but we're here today to talk about jobs we're talking about jobs a very favorite subject of mine to know and to understand that the choice in november is going to be very simple there's never been a time where there's such a difference one is probably communism i don't know they keep saying socialism i think they're gone they've gone over that one that one's passed already joe biden spent the last 47 years shipping your jobs to china and foreign countries you know that and i've spent the last four years bringing the jobs back to our country and back to ohio on november 3rd americans will decide whether we lift our nation to soaring new heights of prosperity or whether we will allow a joe biden sleepy joe to shut down our economy impose a 4 trillion whether that's with the t by the way four trillion dollar tax hike abolish ohio clean coal oil natural gas and ship your jobs and factories and dreams overseas to china and countries that you've never even heard of put simply if biden wins china wins if we win ohio wins and most importantly in all fairness america wins you finally have a president who puts america first and i do put america first i guess that's why almost four years ago that's why i did this right it's because of this probably more than any other reason i watched the jobs going out i never saw anything so stupid in my life i watched the worst trade deals and we've reversed many of them almost all of them now but we've reversed them and uh again we're having the greatest year we've ever had and it's going to be back very soon you take a look at what's happening we're joined today by a real good friend of mine somebody that's been with me from the beginning and i've been with him from the beginning ohio governor mike dewine where's mike  last saturday he's opening up he's awful where's mike thank you mike thank you mike he's a good man and lieutenant governor john houston good guys yeah thanks john good job congressman warren davidson you know warren whoa warren that's very impressive these are real warriors i'll tell you another one mike turner do we know mike carr hell of a lawyer thank you mike thanks for all the help too both of you really appreciate it and a man you know i i don't know i don't know if you know him he should become legendary because when we didn't have a lot of support i had a guy named bob paduck you know bob and he kept saying every time i said you know we're not getting the kind of support from the top people he said that's okay sir you went up another two points we won this state by a lot remember the fake news well that's that's a lot of it back there too a lot of thinking but they were going around mike okay mike they were going around saying well trump may not be able to remember you have to in order to win you have to win ohio all right and then for for a year i heard you cannot win unless you win the great state of iowa but they didn't say the great state i say in the great state and i heard it i heard it for so long it would be impossible and then we won that night by what nine points what was it bob nine points we won by a lot in fact it was the first indication that there was going to be a tough night for the democrats they say ladies and gentlemen not only did trump win ohio he won by a hell of a lot more than we anticipated right and then we then we went on those guys that's why i love these guys we're not gonna miss nobody's messing with these guys you know they're great workers but we use them also for security if anyone gets a little bit a little bit rough we'll take you'll take care right fellas thank you very much thank you but we want it bigger that was the beginning of one of the most exciting nights in history because we did something in 2016 that was amazing and i'll tell you honestly there is more enthusiasm now and this is fact in fact they have a new thing first of all you know we're working very hard when getting a third supreme court justice and i'm going to announce who that is the only thing i'll say for the women it will be a woman uh-oh there are a lot of angry people okay here's a question okay it will be a woman does anybody here please raise your head if you have the carriage is there anybody here that insists that it will be and should be a man is there anybody with the courage please put up your hand right now a lot of women here so okay ready supreme court justice most powerful most important just the most important you know when you become president they say this the single most important thing a president does is pick supreme court and by the way by the end of the first term we will have 300 federal judges a record so let's let's give me a free poll we do this i have such far with it we do it give me a free poll you know they go out they charge hundreds of thousands of dollars they interview like 19 people which mean nothing here we got a lot of people so give me a free poll who would like to see a woman justice of the supreme court who would like to see a male justice of the supreme court the only one i hear there is women some women what's that all about all right now it will be a brilliant person it will be i have five that we're vetting right now it'll be a brilliant person it will be a woman it will be a woman and we're looking forward to it we'll probably announce it on saturday maybe friday but saturday and it's a big day for our country it's a big day for you it's a big day for ohio and so i think it'll be great you know i always love why i just said that like big day for ohio and i do it somewhat routinely do you ever notice where biden goes out and he always picks the wrong location like if he's in ohio it's great to be in the state of florida then he looks around and he doesn't see too many palm trees he said are we in florida no you know he did that seven times how do you do that when you do that you just walk off the stage it's over there's nothing you can do you can make the greatest remainder of the speech there's nothing you can do to save it but the people of dayton know better than anyone the terrible damage that biden has inflicted over his nearly 50 years 47 years to be exact can you believe it for 47 years joe biden shook the hands of american workers and then stabbed them in the back he said washington vultures i mean think of it all over and they raked in cash they raked in big money where's where's the sun where is he where's the sun i'll tell you where is he what did i say where is where is he go ahead you know we did that for fun where's hunter we did a t-shirt that thing sold we come up with these little gems where's hunter you know where he is yeah he's in the basement with his father isis yeah where's hunter now hunter did very well he had no job he was thrown out of the military and he was thrown out he had no job and then he goes to he goes to ukraine and he gets 180 3 000 a month although he had no experience whatsoever nothing about the subject of the company which you know was energy i think they got an upfront payment of 3 million just to be able to get them and then think of that can you be 183 000 a month and 3 million upfront payment how about that i take that one myself and then they go to china he walks out with 1.5 billion dollars to manage which is millions of dollars a year the whole thing is crazy and the fake news doesn't want to cover it they don't want to cover did you see the interview the other day with anderson cooper the other night it was i was softball that was like here joe so we'll see we have a debate coming up and who knows you know look he's been doing this you know what he's been doing it for 47 years i've been doing it for three and a half years so he should be able to beat me i would think he's much more experienced he's great oh he's a beauty but he betrayed you he lied to you he abused you which is why it's time to retire joe biden this is serious stuff do we have any teamsters here teamsters any teamsters here that's all one all right well i did a big favor for the teamsters you know they had a trucking company i think 30 000 jobs going out james hoffa called up could you help could you help could you help i helped i kept that company going they saved 30 000 jobs but then every year they always endorse the democrat doesn't matter good or bad and james hoff i'm so disappointed in that guy so i called i said you know i'd love to get their support oh i'm sorry sir they've already endured sleepy joe biden it's like automatic but you know who doesn't endorse him all the workers underneath and they'll either throw him out or he'll retire they'll retire you get tired of it it's like automatic they endorse the democrat because the democrats do whatever the hell they want it's uh it's really but the workers the people underneath the real people they're with us all the way i've hired thousands and thousands of teamsters all the concrete work of buildings in manhattan but they just they're just like wedded it's uh almost like a habit i consider it a habit i think it's disgraceful but i saved this company a big company good company great people we saved it and then you say unrelated totally unrelated hey we'd love to have well i'm sorry it's already done these people are terrible but that's all right you always have to remember things so remember you got to remember right workers on november 3rd we must turn the page forever on the failed corrupt political class that's what it is they get so much things that are so unfair to the rest of our country and that's why they're always with that top level of democrat but the workers are with us biden is a die-hard globalist you know globalists are out you know that right globalists destroyed they helped destroy this country i'll tell you if i didn't come along i really mean it this country was it was going down and we stopped it if you look at your second amendment if you look at so many different things no matter what it is you look at our jobs our jobs prior to the the plague and now coming back you know the housing is a record setting car manufacturing is record-setting you take a look at car sales our record setting retailing who would think retail is record-setting it's amazing because we had such a good foundation we closed it up we saved millions of lives we had no choice you had to do that and then we opened it and now we're rocking and it's going good it's really going good but the democrats really waged war on the american workers for half a century look what they've done biden's policies destroyed 60 000 factories and killed four point think of it 4.5 million manufacturing jobs we brought back 700 000 when they said right they said the the magic wand you can't do it manufacturing jobs are gone i said really i don't think so biden championed the nafta disaster and china's entry into the world trade organization which was a total catastrophe that's when china started going up like a rocket you know they're considered in the world trade they're considered a developing nation no they're not a developing nation by being a developing nation they get all sorts of advantages over us so we've been protesting it and we do things that you wouldn't believe you don't even want to hear about it because it's disgraceful china is a developing nation and therefore for years and years they had big advantages over the united states but no more what followed was the nothing short and think of it nothing short of a blue collar carnage and it was in ohio and pennsylvania in north carolina new hampshire michigan you know how many car plants we're bringing back to michigan nobody's ever seen it for 40 years they didn't build a plan and now they're building them all over and i tell countries i told a great gentleman he just retired prime minister abi of japan i said shinzo you got to build plants here you can't do this you're building your cars in japan and sending them we want our cars built here we want cars built here and there he said well that's not up to me that's up to the company that's all right shin so i know you can do it the next day they announced five plants i mean you know what can i tell you i know my people it's up to shinzo it wasn't up to it wasn't up to anybody else but he's great the workers of america will never forget biden's economic treachery they will remember in november after biden betrayed and think of it all the betrayals on nafta and china 40 of all of the manufacturing jobs were shipped out of dayton now the good thing is your roads you didn't have a lot of traffic so that's the good news everything else was bad right it was everything else was bad 30 000 dayton families saw their jobs disappear overnight by 2016 the per capita income in dayton had fallen 12 below the national average of fifty thousand dollars remember this this all tapping wait i mean these numbers are incredible what's happened in three years ohio lost one in three manufacturing jobs two out of three iron and steel mill jobs and half of its auto jobs courtesy of joe biden and that crew that group that whole ideology and now of course his ideology has changed he's so far left now here's just so you understand he has no choice it's not him he's being pulled left you see where kamala kamala she's another great one that one you see her poll numbers her poll numbers were going down and i can't nobody treated him worse than to kamala right and she said the harris administration and working with joe biden did you see that but he said worse he said the harris right he said the harris biden administration and i heard that i actually heard that live although it's not real life i'll tell you sort of half gone it's shot it's shot but he said the harris biden administration and that's where it is look this guy is shot i mean if he makes it it's it's going to be i'm going to come back to date and i'm going to say what the hell happened i will have lost to the worst presidential candidate in the history of politics i really believe that the guy can't speak without the teleprompter although i'm telling you i'm telling you i think she says i hope you're right i hope thank you i hope you're right i tell you the country can't afford it one thing i've learned is that president xi of china president putin of russia kim jong-un north korea every one of these leaders they're not shot and we can't have somebody that's sleepy we can't have a sleepy guy negotiating for oh would they like to see him though did you see would they like to see joe it's their dream to see you how about iran do you think iran might like to see joe biden they'd go back they'd say give me another 150 billion dollars you know we gave him 150 billion we gave him 1.8 billion in cash you know that looks like 1.8 billion in cash and i'll tell you what if and when we win we will get a call with about nine seconds after the victory and it'll be iran's going to want to make a deal we want them to make a deal we want them to be good we want them to be strong they just can't have a nuclear weapon that's always very simple can't have a nuclear weapon but i told people i said don't talk to him now look they want to wait this is like this is the gift if they could do that if china could do it i mean think of it if russia could do it by the way nobody's been tougher in russia than me with the sanctions with the uh i exposed right nordstrom 2 that's the pipeline no you never heard of nordstrom until i came along i said to germany let me get this straight we defend germany right we defend germany and that's it they don't pay what they're supposed to pay they're delinquent you know they delinquent so i said to angela and i like angela but i said but she's smart you know why should she pay if she doesn't have to so i said angela so we defend you against russia and you pay billions of dollars to russia how does that work explain to me what's that all about but you never heard about that stuff we give tank busters to ukraine we sell them in theory i don't know we'll ever get the money you know we we sell them but you know he gave pillows maybe he got him from mike lindell the pillow man do you think when when obama when obama sent pillows over to ukraine i send tank busters they send pillows and the fake news goes oh let me tell you we have been very rough but at the same time we get along i like putin he likes me you know we get along it's bet is it wouldn't you say it's smart to get along okay smart i get along i got along with president xi but i i don't know after what happened here i'm having a hard time with china i really am you know they're buying a lot of tradio has been incredible they have been living up to it in all fairness the largest order of corn in the history of our country largest order of soybeans largest cattle order but it means less now you understand right if we wouldn't have been hit with this pandemic which they could have stopped uh it would have meant a lot but it just means a lot less to me right now so now after selling you out and bleeding you dry biden is back asking for your vote the guy when he was in prime time which for him was about half time long time ago i had a friend a senator a democrat believe it or not i used to get along with democrats very well actually better than the republicans but i won't say that but i asked him who's your smartest senator and he gave me a name this is 25 years ago i said who's your dumbest senator joe who's joe joe biden i see he's he is really yeah he's the dumbest senator well now he's a lot dumber than he used to be i can tell you it's true it's true it's true and you can take the gloves off because you know they do all this disinformation they make up phony stuff like the military with what he said i think it's a disgrace and he should apologize a source said i have 27 people that said no way it didn't happen they said it and their their the names are out there so when they do that you take the gloves off that's all really dishonest people dishonest people no it's a disgrace and nobody's done for the military what i've done you know we've totally rebuilt our military we've made it stronger than ever we have the greatest weapons in the world we've gotten raises for our great warriors our vet has got just got a 91 approval rating the highest in the history of the va our vets they gave it a 91 to va gave it a 91 approval rating so nobody's done more nobody and we do we have weapons the likes of which nobody's ever seen before hope to god we don't have to use them but nobody has them not china not russia nobody has the weaponry that we have we have the greatest weapons in the world and hope we don't have to use them just remember that we have the uh i call it the super duper missiles like at a level that nobody's ever seen before you don't see them either they go through here they say boy what happened what was that it's gone it's here there it is i hear a noise over there where is it it's gone it's over there but it's uh hydrosonic i call it super duper because super duper is easier for people to understand that hydrazone but you know we have the greatest we you know 2.5 trillion dollars we spent the greatest weapons in the world the greatest weapons that this world has ever seen without a question i don't have to say what they are in fact the fake news said he just gave away classified information i said no i just said we have the greatest weapons i didn't tell you what they are i could because as president i'm allowed to do it i mean you know hillary clinton is the one that gives away classified information yeah hillary and how about the idiot john bolton i mean he comes in all he wants to do is go to war with everybody if if i listen to that idiot we'd be right now in world war five sir we saw some movement in china i think we should go to war with them and i think russia let's do them both at the same time let's also go in right now to north korea hey do you remember north korea we were supposed to be in war with north korea what happened what happened you know what the press said they said it's amazing first they said it was amazing and those people lost their job probably you know it's amazing what i've done they said and uh no we're supposed to be at war they have a lot of nuclear stuff you know it wouldn't be easy we'd win we're going to win although i tell you when i took over our military was totally depleted we had a depleted mill we had old planes we had old everything it was a depleted military and now it's a beautiful brand new we have f-35s that you can't see stealth they're stealth we have all new rockets all new missiles brand new planes the bombers the the tankers the jet fighters what we've done is incredible and we had to do it somebody had to do it you know it's somebody said well we're sort of doing some damage to our budget i said look i want to have a strong military if i see some people some soldiers from foreign lands right walking up we're running up the white house lawn the beautiful south lawn of the white house i'm not going to be saying you know we didn't do too well with the military but we kept it under control in the budget right now now the military supersedes everything i don't know to me i've always heard the supreme court but to me the most important thing has always been the military our defense and our offense if needed you know it's always been the most  joe biden should not be asking for your support he should be begging for your forgiveness and he should be biden supported the disastrous trans-pacific partnership this building wouldn't be here if you ever did that one which would have been a death sentence for the u.s auto industry and other industries he supported the horrendous korea deal okay how about the south korea deal it's a uh disaster so that was a hillary clinton deal i must say not him although i guess he added you know his advice hey you know what's interesting with biden so he always says why didn't the president do this and why did the president do that and why didn't do this and that this and that the guy has been there for 47 years but he just left like three and a half years ago you know i mean he was there and i keep saying uh why didn't you do it why didn't you do it you know could have done it it's not like he was 25 years ago they were there three and a half years ago why didn't you do it sleepy joe but the career deal and i say it all the time she said this will create 250 000 jobs and everybody got all excited all those jobs the problem was the jobs were all produced in south korea so that didn't work out too 250 000 jobs for south korea anyway i renegotiated the deal in its entirety now it's a good deal that was a rip i'll tell you and the pro-china paris climate accord it's pro-everything is for everybody but us that would have cost us trillions of dollars and we would have had the privilege of closing down dayton's uh probably 25 of your companies you could have never you could have never done it's an anti-america deal and you know when i did it i thought i'd be scorned people understood that it was a total ripoff they understood it with every decision joe biden twisted a knife into the hands and heart of the american worker but these brutal betrayals ended the day i took the oath of office that's true i mean i i saw so much stupidity the endless wars and we're almost out of afghanistan as you know not easy to get out because we have people in this country the military industrial complex eisenhower called it the military industrial complex and it does exist it's not easy to get out but we're very close to getting out and getting out of the middle east we're down to very little in iraq we're down to almost nothing in syria but you know i will be honest with you we are keeping we kept the oil somebody said you still have some soldiers in syria that's right i kept the oil we kept the oil we should have done that in iraq remember i used to say a long time ago before i was don't go into the middle east but if you're going to go in keep the oil well we went in and we didn't keep anything and all the death the blood and the sand i caught the blood and the sand that worthless sand all of that death that's been caused for no reason it's the worst decision in the history of our country going into the middle east we're in there now eight trillion dollars we're almost out eight trillion dollars and nothing but death and millions of lives if you look at both sides i'll look at both sides somebody would say oh we shouldn't be looking at the other side look at both sides a lot of innocent people were killed we lost incredible soldiers i see the the coffins the caskets come in in dover and i see it and i said oh boy why why why why why did they do this my first week i withdrew from the trans-pacific partnership and saved that whole business of of so much i extended the and what i had to do is i extended for a short time and then totally ended nafta you know nafta is the worst trade deal ever made ever made and we did the usmca mexico canada we have a great deal and the reason i know it's a great deal because the other sides are unhappy you always like to have an unhappy person on the other side no they're okay but they had a free rip at us for years and years and years nafta how many how many buildings how many factories did you lose right here where they moved over to mexico moved up to canada moved all over the place but that's not going to happen anymore the new deal makes it very prohibitive to do that in 2017 i signed a historic executive order making it really something you got to do a little a couple of little expressions just go buy american and hire american you know life is crazy in politics biden runs for president like two or three times right and i used to call him one percent joe and that was prime time for him right now that prime time is long over he ends up winning the nomination explaining but had elizabeth warren left and been loyal to her communist ideology they would say socialist but it's communal it was pretty close maybe somewhere in between heading toward the sea work but had she left before super tuesday biden would have lost every state but she took the votes away from bernie and bernie's a nice guy you know crazy brother he he is the nicest loser i've ever seen you know when they talk about sportsmanship he got screwed by hillary clinton badly but not as badly as this time this was worse because all pocahontas had to do is leave a day early she didn't even have to induce him and the votes that she got which weren't many but far more than he needed because he lost a couple of states by literally a small amount of votes he would have gotten most of those votes he would have won he would have been the one we we fought i don't know who would have been better who would have been easier sleepy joe biden or crazy bernie tell me sleepy joe who says sleepy too who says bernie i don't know it's hard bernie had more spirit you know joe's got no spirit it's dead as a rock the only spirit he's got is spirit to beat me and that's called a negative spirit and historically that doesn't do that well if you look at old races when somebody's getting votes because they don't like somebody you know there's an ideology that let's face it doesn't like me too much somebody said we don't like his personality i said i always thought i had a good personality they don't like my personality who the hell cares about my president right how to get the job done see those rough guys over there i don't like their personality either but they get the job done right who the hell cares who cares about that president but when sleepy joe was vice president other countries flooded our market thank you very much who is that wow  good voice have you ever tried opera good voice thank you donald but other countries flooded our market with subsidized washing machines you remember that disaster does anybody know about the whirlpool plant in clyde ohio right and the head of whirlpool came to see me i was president-elect and he called and i don't know for some reason i've heard a whirlpool i've heard of it all my life i guess i didn't know much about it they made washing machines and i never knew i knew they were dumping steel on us and dumping certain things but i didn't know they were dumping washing machines and he was a good guy came up to my office and he said he's they're putting us out of business south korea china they're dumping washington they make washing machines they dump them into our market they put everybody out of business then they charge you a lot of money when everyone's gone just like rockefeller used to do right just like other people do right now unfortunately but we're trying to track them down and i said that's really terrible i don't know somehow it hit me so we put a 50 tariff on all washing machines coming into our country and i visited i visited with jim jordan you know jim jordan one of the best you know he's a great wrestler he was a great one of the best he was a great great wrestler really uh a phenomenal wrestler real champion nca champion and all gym and that's the way he is he's a tough guy no games right no games that he works with our guys here your guys and uh he was great but it's jim's uh area and we went up and saw the plant and they're making thousands a day i mean they gave me a number it can't be i think they said like 20 000 a day i said how the hell can you make that many washing machines but you know what i'm talking about congressman right they're making thousands of washing machines a day and it's a vibrant company again it was dead it was going to close but i evened up the score i put the tariffs and now what they're doing is lg and samsung and these companies that made the washing machine they're now coming into the united states and in order to avoid the tariff they're building plants in the united states and that's okay and that's what we should do we did it a lot we're going to be doing it a lot more to we're going to be doing it a lot more biden allowed other countries to target our steel industries and it was like a disaster for our steel industry but we took historic action to end these practices and placed strong tariffs on foreign aluminum and steel and it brought back our steel now steel plants are opening or being upgraded in toledo marion cuyahoga heights mingo junction and all across the midwest they were gonzo and you know certain industries you need you know some industries you don't but said steel you need steal your need for defense you need it no you don't want to talk war you don't want to talk about that but if we had a problem what are you going to do well we don't have any steel mills let's see if we can get some steel from china but sir you're fighting them well that's
 me  hello john sound thank you very much this is going to be a great evening it's incredible to be back in pennsylvania the proud home of american independence the american constitution and american freedom that's true what a history and 21 days from now we're going to win the commonwealth of pennsylvania and we're going to win four more years in the white house  this election is a simple choice if biden wins china wins all these other countries win we get ripped off by everybody if we win you win pennsylvania wins and america wins very simple for years the selfish and corrupt political class betrayed the people of pennsylvania you know that and the people of our country career politicians like joe biden lied to you i don't think he knew he was even lying you want to know the truth he's gone he's shot folks i hate to tell you he's shot he abused you he crushed you your dreams and outsourced your jobs to china and distant lands all over the world as the senator biden's last american trade policies were a total disaster they dismantled your steel industry and decimated entire towns in your area and we brought back steel and we put tariffs on steel and we stopped dumping steel and aluminum as vice president he closed down 10 000 factories while raking in cash from corporations that moved jobs overseas and his family got rich you know that how did hunter make three and a half million dollars from the mayor of russia mayor of moscow's wife how did that happen so you have the mayor of moscow got a wife gave hunter three and a half million bucks i wonder what he did for that money huh the fake news they refuse to talk about it they don't want to hear about it biden's a servant of the radical globalists the wealthy donors the big money special interests who shipped away your jobs shut down your factories and you know it because you really suffered right this area threw open your borders and ravaged our cities while sacrificing american blood and treasure in these ridiculous endless foreign wars they're all coming back home don't worry they're all coming back home they're already on their way they've been on their way for a long time in 2016 pennsylvania voted to fire this failed and decrepit political establishment and you elected an outsider as your president to finally put america first that's what we did and we did not come this far overcome this much and fight this hard only to surrender our country back to the depraved washington swamp and by the way did we catch them we caught them we caught them we caught them watch what happens watch what happens they spied on our campaign what they did what they did should never ever be allowed to happen in this country again never watch what happens this is the most important election in the history of our country biden has made a corrupt bargain in exchange for his party's nomination he has handed control to the socialists and marxists and left-wing extremists like his vice presidential candidate that's another great one isn't it i just watched her on television coming in because the great thing about air force one we have more televisions they're in closets they're all over the place they're on the floors on the ceilings and i watched her and i compared her to amy great future supreme court justice  and i will tell you amy's made a great impression  and you know biden he can't stand up to the lunatics running his party he can't even find his way off the stage without him look look what's happened yesterday he didn't know the name he said you know the guy i think he's a mormon right he said he's a mormon he was talking about mitt romney he forgot mitt romney's name can you imagine that can you imagine then he didn't know where he was he said where the hell am i where am i no he's shot folks he's shot i'm running against the single worst candidate in the history of presidential politics and you know what that does that puts more pressure on me can you imagine if you lose to a guy like this it's unbelievable it's a it's disgusting it's disgraceful if he wins the radical left we'll be running the country he won't be running the country the radical left will take over and how about pennsylvania so he says there will be no fracking no fracking this went on for a year and a half no fracking no fracking no fracking then elizabeth warren refused to get out so they stole another one for bernie bernie's the greatest loser of them all this guy every four years they steal it so she refused to get out pocahontas she refused to get out right they wanted me to apologize for saying the word pocahontas so no no i apologize to pocahontas to the real one  no no she you wouldn't get out and she took enough votes away and biden won super tuesday that shouldn't have happened but if i don't sound like a typical washington politician fortunately that's because i'm not a politician i'm not a politician but think of that you know you're talking about politician no fracking for a year and a half right and then he goes to pennsylvania says no no they'll be fracking like nothing happened can you imagine if i did that no parakeet no fracking no fracking i'm the opposite by the way no fracking no fracking then you win and you go you know you got to go a little to the other direction a little bit to the right although he actually went further left which is sort of an amazing thing but all of a sudden he comes out in favor of fracking and let me tell you it's always the first thing that turns out to be true okay they will lose you will lose in pennsylvania a million jobs there will be no petroleum products there will be no fracking whatsoever and did you see his party now is really angry at him because he's saying maybe they'll be fracking it's a very conditional you know it's a very weak but with me you're gonna frack you're gonna fret and you're gonna keep your energy low and we're independent you know we are now energy independent first time ever so if i don't always play by the rules of the washington establishment it's because i was elected to fight for you and i fought harder for you than any president has ever fought for their people right now i'm fighting to eradicate the virus rebuild the economy and save our country from the radical left and that's a big thing saving it because these people this will end up being a large scale version of venezuela if they get in they don't have water they don't have medicine they don't have food they don't have anything despite everything they've thrown at us we've done more in the first three and a half years than any administration in history and the best is yet to come  a recent gallup poll just came out thank you a gallup poll just came out that found that 56 of americans say they're better off today than they were under sleepy joe and obama the highest of any president at this point in his term think of that 56 this is as we round the corner on the pandemic 56 they were much much lower just remember this if they were any good i wouldn't have run for president but they were no good they did a horrible job they did a horrible job yesterday biden told those 56 of americans that they probably shouldn't vote for him and for once i agree with joe did you hear he said you shouldn't vote for me you know he has no idea what he's saying how the hell do you lose to a guy like this is this possible oh i'll never come to pennsylvania again i love this place you know they say he was born in scranton but he left he left he abandoned you he didn't give me a break thank you i love you thank you thank you thank you by the way this is a lot of people here tonight a lot of people i wish the fake news would show it they never turn the cameras you know i go home our great first lady always says how was the crowd i said didn't they show no that you show your face and about five people behind me right they become fans why don't you show the crowd though why don't you do yourself a favor show the crowd one of the most important issues for pennsylvania is the survival of your fracking industry joe biden has repeatedly pledged to abolish fracking he's a liar okay he's a liar how do you do it how do you do it he went for a year and a half they said are you remember the debates with the radical left democrats right you had uh alfred newman you had all these people you know who alfred e newman is yes pete budeck pete budeck he's a bad mayor of a failed town and he's going to run for president you know pete budeck but you know uh he's talking about it and does that mean everybody nobody is going to do that's right nobody nobody asks where nobody nobody nobody then he gets up i've never seen anything like it in my life and not one fake reporter back there said well wait a minute you've been pledging for a year and a half no fracking but then what about the uh health care for illegal immigrants who in this group is going to provide health care for illegal immigrants everybody raises their hand you remember joe no do you remember this is a famous clip but they don't ask them questions about it because they're fake do you remember joe who's going to provide and look we all have hearts and we want to take care of everybody but you know the problem when you do that we don't have the money the whole world is going to empty out into our country they're going to come for health care they're going to come for a college free college i say sometimes jokingly sarcastically everybody gets a free rolls royce to which cnn says they don't get a free rolls royce he has misrepresented you know these people are sick everybody gets a free rolls royce they don't get a free rolls royce the president has misrepresented ah they are sick people but think of it so remember when joe and they said raise your hand if everybody's in favor of free everything free everything but free health care for illegal aliens and joe goes like he had no idea what the hell he was doing folks he has no clue and he's not a nice guy you know just so you understand not a nice guy if he was a nice guy i wouldn't hit him like this but he's not a nice guy he's a bad guy he's always been a dummy but he's always been he's never been no no in his best of years he was considered a dumb guy when asked about fracking biden said he would sure absolutely make it we will uh eliminate it that's what he said those are the exact words and then he said it 19 different times and one day he said i never said that it's incredible and they don't question him i couldn't get away with it for a minute not for a minute did you see the town hall he had with nbc that was a town hall for a child a young child barron trump would actually baron's far too advanced for that town that was a town hall lester holt lester holt that was a beauty right that was some town hall that was and they said yes we have a random sampling of people yeah all trump haters right what a group of people but he raised his hand he said illegal immigrants will get health care now people don't realize what that means that means your social security goes down the tubes your country goes bankrupt you know the whole thing is a disaster but he raised his hand now he's trying to say he didn't do it and they don't call him out because they're fake his radical left running mate who i just watched on television she's so pathetic is a co-sponsor of the socialist green new deal which eliminates all fossil fuels she's having a hard time getting out of that one did you hear the other day she actually came out in favor of frackie and it was like yeah i think so she's further left than bernie did you see bernie i thought was the furthest left in the senate because you don't get too much worse right then you go instead of socialist you go to the c word right she's further left she's considered further left than bernie this is and you know they're looking when nancy pelosi does the 25th amendment she's doing it for biden you do know that right because they want to get biden out and that won't be hard but at this very moment biden's website includes a pledge to mandate net zero carbon emissions which means fossil fuel coal everything is gone and it's gone soon okay and with that goes our economy and with that goes our country the democrat party hates fracking they hate coal they hate clean beautiful coal i see what they do with coal now they hate domestic energy production and biden will shut you down he wants to shut you down just like your governor's got you shut down right now they better open up your state did you see the world health organization yesterday they said trump was right they said you can't make the cure worse than the problem itself i've been saying that for a long time and we did the right thing we saved two million lives they said 2.2 million people we saved 2 million lives and you know we get nothing and i'll tell you what we have the vaccines are coming soon the therapeutics and frankly the cure all i know is i took something whatever the hell it was i felt good very quickly i don't know what it was antibodies antibodies i don't know i took it i said i felt like superman and i said let me adam no and i could have been here four or five days ago it's great we had great doctors i want to thank the doctors at walter reed and johns hopkins one great thing about being president if you're not feeling 100 you have more doctors than you thought existed in the world i was surrounded with like 14 of them where are you from i'm from this one where are you from i'm from johns hopkins i'm from walter reed but what great talented people they did a great job and thank you and while i'm president america will remain the world's number one energy producer with pennsylvania workers leading the way and that's what's happening you're leading the way you know you had the best year in the history of your your place it's a history of if you look at the commonwealth of pennsylvania you never want to say state don't ever say state actually nobody cares about them but you know i'm just saying let's see pennsylvania you got two of them you know that right the commonwealth the great commonwealth of pennsylvania i went to school here probably spent more time here than sleepy joe in all fairness i went to school here but we're putting our great coal miners back to work joe biden and the democrat socialists will kill your jobs dismantle your police departments you see that happening and we've got did you see in the debate the other night i said to him name one law enforcement agency just one in a whole country that supports you he couldn't do it then chris wallace bailed him out then i say how come you got the three and a half million from russia and they bailed him out again he was choking like a dog they bailed him out but they want to dissolve your borders they don't want borders they want to have open borders release criminal aliens raise your taxes confiscate your guns get rid of your second amendment  i mean here's one that's incredible destroy your suburbs okay so they talk about the suburban women and somebody said i don't know if the suburban woman likes you i say why but we had this i love you too  they said they may not like the way you talk but i'm about law and order i'm about having you safe i'm about having your suburban communities i i don't want to build low-income housing next to your house okay if that's okay and i ended the regulation the rule that made the zoning so impossible that you had to destroy your communities and then i hear the the suburban woman i think that the suburban woman and i used to say suburban housewife i used to take heat but i said does anybody care do you care if i say superb they're all going no again the only one cares is them trump said suburban housewife but i didn't say it because i don't you learn very quickly you learn very quickly but suburban women they should like me more than anybody here tonight because i ended the regulation that destroyed your neighborhood i ended the regulation that brought crime to the suburbs and you're going to live the american dream and that's what you're going to do and remember this 29 of the people experiencing the american dream in the suburbs happen to be minority and you don't know that but 29 and we're doing this for everybody we're not doing it one way the other we're doing it and i ended it they said sir we can amend it i said i don't want to amend it i want to end it it was a horror show and this loser corey booker is the guy that's going to be in charge of the program the guy's a stone called loser one percent he got one percent he ran he was gonna be great you know one percent every week he was like her down down down they should have picked him but no he'll be in charge of your uh suburban so can i ask you to do me a favor suburban women would you please like me remember please please i saved your damn neighborhood okay the other thing i don't have that much time to be that nice you know i can do it but i gotta go quickly we don't have time they want me to be politically correct oh yes let's discuss it let's talk about it over the next 10 years no no no now we saved your we saved suburbia in the u.s i got rid of a regulation that was a disaster and it was very unfair and you've been reading about it for a long time it's been going on for a long time it became much worse under obama and biden i got rid of it and i had a choice my even my own people said you never get rid of it sir i said i want to get rid of it well what are we just amended i said i don't want to amend it i want to get rid of it get rid of it okay and i think we're going to see that the women really like trump a lot that's happened last time remember remember last four years ago four years ago they said women will never vote for him i said why am i so bad they say the women will never vote then i got 52 they said what the hell happened with the women except this time see this is much easier because then i was a developer i was doing great everything was nice but i had never done this before i came in i said i'm going to rebuild our military i'm going to cut your taxes i'm going to cut your regulations i'm going to get you this i'm going to get you that i'm going to take care of our vets i mean i did things that frankly i never even talked about like space force i never talked about space work the wall is almost built you know the wall is up to 392 miles it's almost and mexico is paying for the wall by the way you know that i've been saying it they hate to hear that but they're paying you know we're putting a charge on where the cars go through and it'll more than pay for the wall but uh we have now the most secure southern border that we've ever had and i want to thank the president of mexico they have 27 000 mexican soldiers on our southern border stopping people from coming into the u.s illegally thank you very much no but we did all these things so this time in theory it should be easier but don't forget i've gone through years years of a fake witch hunt and now it turned out that they were the guilty party they were the ones dealing with russia they were the guilty people think if i didn't have every night on that fake cnn right over there with a light on the light just went off it just went off every time i point to them the light goes off it's all right keep it off nobody's watching them anyway but you know think of i didn't have every night russia russia russia hey and nobody's been tougher in russia than me what i've done for nato raised a hundred and thirty billion dollars a year from other countries that weren't paying their bills they would delinquent as we said in the real estate business they were delinquent and that goes up to 410 billion dollars nobody did that obama used to send them pillows maybe from the pillow man on fox did you ever see a man advertised so much i've never seen it i've never seen the biggest advertiser i think he's the greatest advertising genius mike he's the greatest advert if i gave him our budget you wouldn't be able to do anything else but watch trump ads the pillow man i tell you i never saw so many ads in my life every day it's a pillow the pillow now he came out with a sheet and i'm going crazy that's all that's all we need now is a new sheet but he's on our side too by the way that guy he's on our side mike and now biden even refuses to answer questions unpacking the supreme court you know elections have consequences winning and losing an election that's big consequences and we've been winning elections and they say well you know trump shouldn't be appointing the new justice because well i'm president in fact as you know a lot of your great justices said no no they're appointed justice ginsburg just said recently not so long ago no no he's president for four years not for three years your point now he was she was referring to obama i think or clinton or somebody but wasn't referring to me i can promise you that oh don't worry don't worry it's big bill it's me you don't have to worry about that that's much easier than we'll build a wall that goes to that goes for a lot that's what you know the wall is one of the biggest projects in the history of this country you know that right and we had a party dedicated to the proposition that there will never ever be a wall that will never they knew it was the right thing to do and i made one big mistake i should have come instead of saying we will build a wall i should have said we will never ever build a wall they would have given me so much money made a big mistake oh great congressman over there are you guys having a good time by the way huh mike he said the voters don't deserve to know and he'll tell you after the election what he's going to do and you know what i did i gave you a list i have 45 people on that list every one of them is a star and i gave you a list yeah sit down everybody just enjoy yourself what the hell look at these people this i didn't even realize you're all standing i didn't realize you had seats you're lucky this is one of the few crowds we provided seats that's because it's pennsylvania i guess it's pretty good if they win democrats will pack the supreme court with radical left justices who will shred your second amendment you can forget about guns empower violent mobs and shield deadly criminals and terrorists to defend our constitution from this madness i proudly nominated judge amy coney barrett of the united states supreme court and to the court she'll be a great justice of the united states supreme court she's done so well i really found it fascinating to that you know i don't have too much time i tried to watch as much as i could she was great the radical left is hell bent on destroying everything we love and cherish they're enraged and unhinged and they are going crazy you know think of it very many you know presidents never have anybody to appoint i will have by the end of the first term almost 300 federal judges and three supreme court justices their heads are exploding i hope they're happy they want to cancel you shame you and persecute you that's what they want to do they want a shame in this whole cancel culture thing you know now they're after abraham lincoln they don't like abraham lincoln now he wasn't too good was i said this three years ago remember when they took down a couple of statues of people you never heard of a confederate soldier somebody else somebody i said oh really the next will be robert e lee the next will be abraham lincoln the next will be george washington and everybody laughed they said oh the president is so funny i said i'm not being funny these people are sick these people they want to take away your heritage and by the way are there any italians in the room okay well we are protecting the legacy of christopher columbus okay you know the italians are tough i love the italians so they were going to rip down the statue of christopher columbus in new york you saw that right and all of a sudden a group of italians circled around the statue and they were having pretty tough things in their hand i must say and it was amazing how those people that wanted to rip it down disappeared very quickly so the italians let me tell you christopher columbus will always be here on my watch that i can tell you  now i had people the other day they wanted to wish me happy columbus day they were afraid i said why are you ashamed no no say it happy christopher columbus day this is christopher columbus day it's columbus day okay so italian say thank you mr president i appreciate i like you too i love the italians they want to punish the middle class expunge every last trace of traditional values and replace the american dream with the socialist nightmare and that's what would happen just take a look at what's going on in other parts of the world biden's agenda not that he has one but you know he does whatever they tell him to do he got so lucky she should have she should have gotten out you know she was faithful she would have gotten out bernie would have run we would have been running against crazy bernie instead but i'd rather run against joe because there's no enthusiasm there's no energy one thing with bernie's people and you know we got a lot of people last time from bernie because they loved me on trade because they know our country has been ripped off on trade like no country has ever been ripped off and bernie's people get that and they they like us on trade biden's agenda would be a catastrophe for seniors for years biden tried to cut social security and medicare nobody remembers that and the press will never bring it up but he tried to cut your social security right now biden is pledging mass amnesty and federal health care for the illegal aliens decimating medicare and destroying your social security biden cares more about illegal aliens and he cares about your senior citizens and it's true and let me just tell you this and i say it strongly and when i first got elected they always played the social security card and nothing happened right your social security now is better than ever i haven't touched it while i am president no one will touch your medicare or your social security under my leadership we're delivering a safe vaccine and a rapid recovery if you vote for me prosperity will surge normal life that's what we want normal life we want normal life we'll fully resume and next year will be one of the greatest economic years in the history of our country it's already happening how about the stock market who has 401ks in the audience right well i can tell you one thing i'm getting all of your votes i'm getting your votes your 401ks are setting records think of it as we're rounding the turn and we are they go crazy when i say we're rounding the turn on the pandemic we understand that hey i just had it here i am you know it's me it's actually me and i could have stayed in the basement of the white house or maybe the top floor of the white house i could have done that but i'm the president of the united states i can't do that i got to get out and i have to meet people and i have to see people and i know it's risky to do that but you have to do what you have to do you know i'm the president i can't sit in the basement and say let's wait this thing out i'm not going to do that and now i'm immune they tell me i'm immune i could come down and start kissing everybody i'll kiss every guy man and woman man and woman look at that guy how handsome he is i'll kiss him not not with a lot of enjoyment but that's okay joe biden would terminate our recovery delay the vaccine prolong the pandemic and annihilate the economy with draconian unscientific lockdowns like you're having right now in pennsylvania with this governor who is killing you tom wolf tom wolf come on tom open up pennsylvania tom open it up you know what's going to happen november 4th they'll open it up you know that they're doing it they want to keep the numbers as bad as possible here's the problem the numbers are going to come out just before the election so we have november 3rd the numbers are going to come out and pennsylvania's a late voting state you actually believe in going to a poll because you see all the shenanigans no you're a late voting state and all i can tell you is when i came here and i said this before but when i came here i promised you a lot of things i've done much more than i promised you you had the best year you've ever had and you're going to have a better year next year you damn well better vote for me pennsylvania sleepy joe biden's plan will crush america and my plan we're going to crush the virus very quickly it's happening already it's happening almost 90 percent less mortality you know the the mortality rate is at like 85. if you had it seven or eight months ago it's not as good as if you have it now and soon it's going to be perfecto and uh i said that the drug that they gave me i'm gonna we're going to be distributing it all over the country to hospitals and everything else because i'll tell you that sucker works that's my opinion what do i know but to me it works and and the people that did it they're phenomenal people they've had great success with other vaccines and drugs just this week we learned that another member of the biden family is getting rich off connections to joe his son-in-law just came out big story is cashing in on the china virus pandemic just like hunter where's hunter crashed in on china what do you think where hunter walks in and he walks out with a billion and a half dollars to manage for china i said to a friend of mine one of the biggest guys on wall street does that ever happen he said i'm the biggest guy on wall street that doesn't happen for me 10 minutes he had a billion and a half dollars maybe he's not so stupid after all to fight the china virus we launched the largest mobilization since world war ii and we really should get credit for what we've done because i'll tell you mike pence and all of these people they have worked so 24 hours around the clock our early and aggressive actions saved as many as 2 million lives remember when they said no no no you don't want to ban china don't ban china i did it in january they were talking a month and a half later we shouldn't be doing it he called me xenophobic i said joe give me a definition of xenophobic please he was unable to do that we pioneered life-saving therapies and reduced the fatality rate by 85 percent i'm working with the fda to make the antibody treatments i received and everybody we're going to have them they're going to be shipped very soon we're working on an emergency use authorization very complicated stuff and the fda has never responded like they've responded to me this could have taken years what we've done and we've done it in weeks i know they came to me on one thing and they said sir will that will take approximately two and a half years i said no it's no good when do you need it sir next week tomorrow how about tomorrow no we're pushing them hard the fda has been great to everyone fighting to recover from the virus i feel your pain because i felt your pain and we will beat this virus together and for those who's had it who has had it here who's had it yeah a lot of people a lot of people well you're the people i want to say hello to because you're right now immune you're right now immune or they say that you know they hate to admit it because i had it so in the old days they said well if you have it you're immune for life right once i got it they give you four months they say you're remote you know is anybody else but me you're immune for life through operation warp speed which is incredible will have 100 million vaccine doses before the end of this year 100 million and the vaccine will end the pandemic once and for all and remember this because i have the endorsement of i think every major law enforcement and minor law enforcement group in the country we have a lot of democrats that left their party and they came over law enforcement people i can almost tell you by looking look at this group over here i know the law enforcement people nobody's been better we had all this surplus military equipment obama didn't want to give it out because he said it looked too militaristic i said no i want to save lives okay it's defensive equipment i want to save lives and we gave out hundreds of millions of uh it was sitting in warehouses all over the country military equipment and we gave it out but there's nobody like the gre
michigan peter meyer the state republican chair laura cox  national committee woman kathy burton all the great men and women of black's enterprises it is great to be back in the wolverine state i appreciate you all coming out feels and looks like fall in the heartland doesn't it i just love it but i got to be honest with you i'm here for one reason and one reason all and that is in michigan and america need four more years of president donald trump it's on and the road to victory runs right through michigan and while you're at it president trump and i need michigan to send john james to the united states grand rapids needs to send that west point grad army veteran a man who's led humanitarian efforts at home and around the world to capitol hill we need peter meyer you know four years a ago of everyday americans from every walk of life here in michigan you knew we could be strong again you knew we could be prosperous again you said yes to president donald trump in 2016 and i know michigan is going to say yes to four more years of president and we're out there telling the story about a week ago i was in salt lake city utah we had a little debate out there between me some people think we did okay let me be clear with all it's a privilege for me to be on that stage representing our group that debate was not so much a debate between two candidates as it was between two visions the joe biden and kamala harris want higher taxes open borders socialize medicine they want to abolish fossil fuels they want taxpayer funding of abortion they want to defund  president trump's vision we rebuild our military we cut taxes we roll back regulations we unleashed american energy secured our border supported law enforcement and we have stood for liberty for life in the constitution of the united states you know when you compare the bible harris agenda with origin the choice is clear if you cherish faith and freedom and love and order and life in a little less than three weeks we need to re-elect president donald trump you know four years ago we inherited a military that had been hollowed out by devastating veterans an economy that was struggling to break out of the slowest recovery since the great depression terrorism was on the rise around the world and we witnessed the steady and solid or most cherished value but in three short years all of that's changed  most importantly we rebuilt our military we restored the arsenal of democracy and we are once again giving our soldiers sailors airmen marines and coast guard the resources and the support that they need you know as the proud father of the united states marine  and the father-in-law the united states navy pilot who's currently deployed i have to say i couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who cares so deeply about the men and women of our armed forces and their families and we have just stood for those who wear the uniform president donald trump has stood with all the men and women who have served in the uniform of the united states donald trump is the most pro-veteran president in my life you know when joe biden was vice president you all remember it here in michigan joe biden was vice president he saw years of scandal at the va that literally shocked the conscience of the nation but under president trump's leadership we signed the most sweeping reforms of the va in 50 years we fired thousands of va employees they weren't giving our veterans the care they deserve and veterans choice is now available for every veteran in america  you know i gotta believe among us there are lots of men and women who've worn the uniform of the united states just like your future congressman peter meyer so if you're able to stand or raise your hand if you served in the armed forces of the united states would you mind just standing up or a race we didn't just rebuild our military and stand with our veterans but after the slowest i want to say that again it was the slowest economic recovery since the great depression president donald trump lit the fires of the american economy and we created the greatest economy the world has ever known where joe white wants to raise taxes in our first three years we cut taxes across the board for working families businesses large and small this president signed more bills cutting federal red tape than any president in american history we unleashed american energy fought for free and fair trade and in just three years businesses large and small created seven million good paying jobs including 125 000 jobs right here in the wolverine  those first three years michigan achieved its lowest unemployment rate in 20 years right in this state the average hourly earnings grew nearly as much in our first three years as they did in all eight years that joe biden was vice president and maybe what's most important to the president after wages had been stagnant for many years all across the heartland wages were rising at their fastest base in more than 10 years and they were rising most rapidly for hard-working blue-collar americans you know i'm from just down south to hoosier state i always like to stay out in this part of the country we do two things particularly well we make things and grow things right and this president from early on said that we were going to bring american jobs back we were going to bring the heart land back we're going to bring back those four beautiful words made in the usa and that's just what we've got  under president trump's leadership those less taxes less regulations fight for free and fair trade i'm proud to report here the great state of michigan that the automotive industry is roaring back in america last year gm announced around 400 jobs in this state and fiat chrysler already is building a 1.6 billion dollar new assembly plant here in michigan that's going to create 6 400 good paying jobs now that's quite a contrast joe biden was vice president and you all remember i actually lost 200 000 manufacturing jobs and the last president four years ago said they were never coming back remember all that he said what magic wand do you have well we didn't need a magic wand we just needed president donald trump created in just three years here in the world marine state  leadership i promise your president donald trump and i will always go to michigan jobs so it's been about security and about prosperity president donald trump every day of this administration has also stood strong we've appointed more than 200 conservatives to our federal courts and i can tell you firsthand they are all men and women who will hold all the god-given liberties in our constitution like the freedom of religion freedom of speech and the second  you know last month we rightly paused as a nation to honor the life and service of the late justice ruth bader kids when the memorials were over president donald trump fulfilled his duty under the constitution when he nominated a brilliant principal conservative woman to the supreme court of the united states they're in day three of those hearings in the united states senate president i have continued to call on senators to provide judge merritt with a respectful hearing and respect that nomination every day but you know we have reason to be concerned you all remember a couple years ago when judge barrett was nominated in the court of appeals out this way the ranking democrat on the judiciary committee criticized her catholic faith saying and i quote the dogma lives loudly within you and hollywood liberals already started attacking her for faith the day the president nominated her to the supreme court well i got a message for the democrats and their hollywood friends that dogma lives loudly  the senate has a job to do they're going about their constitutional role to advise consent but after they finish their work i'll make your prediction judge amy coney barrett is going to be justice on the supreme court of the united states now while we're talking about the supreme court people of michigan deserve to know that after 150 years with nine members of the supreme court of the united states leading democrats in washington are actually talking about packing the court you also joe biden refused to answer the question during the presidential debate his running mate kamala harris during the primaries actually said that she was quote absolutely open to pacquiao and when i tried to get her to answer the question during our debate last friday joe biden was asking voters didn't deserve to know if he plans to pack the court he said quote no they don't yesterday he dodged the question again refused to rule it out you know when you're running for the highest office in the land you owe it to the american people to say whether or not you're going to respect the highest one court why they won't answer the question you know out here in the heartland we like to say you know i was born in the morning but not yesterday morning okay come on they're ducking the question because joe biden and kamala harris are going to back the supreme court with liberal judges if they win this election they're going to add seats to the supreme court of the united states and fill them with activist judges in what would be the biggest power grab in american history but we're not gonna let it happen we're gonna re-elect president donald trump for four more years a republican majority in the united states senate with john james in that chamber okay we're going to stand on the constitution and we're going to preserve an independent judiciary speaking of the rule of law i couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who has stood every day with the men and women who serve in law enforcement at every level president donald trump and i know that is the men and women who put on the uniform of law enforcement every day are the best people in this world  they deserve the respect of every american every day you know when i was growing up down in a small town in southern indiana we used to drive up to chicago this is my grandparents i see my uncle getting dressed put on that police officer all my heroes are we still with law enforcement but i want to be clear president trump and i will always support the right of americans and peaceful protests rioting and looting is not peaceful burning businesses is not free violence against innocent civilians the destruction of property or violence against law enforcement will not be tolerated and those who do these things will be prosecuted to the fullest joe biden extent his running mate talked about were peaceful protesters remember all summer long well the american people literally watched the businesses of their communities that debate last week i traveled there fighting for westbrook detroit i met for in minneapolis just a couple weeks earlier wonderful african-american business owner he opened us a lot 35 years she told me in the days following the killing of jewish voice she watched as the violent group looters and protesters came closer and closer to the business more deserve better all of our families deserve better and we're going to rebuild florence business rebuild that community for all of our families in all of our cities you know the truth is i think you all know joe biden would double down on the policies that have literally led to violence in our city when you start to withdraw support for those who protect and serve you only emboldened those who would do harm to our families now joe biden justifies it all by saying that he thinks america is quote systemically racist and that police have in his words an implicit bias against menorah when joe biden was asked if he'd support cutting funding to law enforcement he said yes absolutely let me make your promise under president donald trump we're going to back the blue we're going to have long enforcement in every city in every state in this nation for every american of every race and creed and color so help us god  you know you all in michigan no or we know down in the hoosier state we're going to choose between supporting law enforcement and supporting our african americans families and neighbors and other minorities that live in our city this president has done both for three and a half years in our first three and a half years we we funded four thousand new law enforcement officers for the cops program with the violence engulfed many of our cities we launched operational legend named after a four-year-old boy was literally killed in his home while they slept in a pillow fort he and his dad now we've arrested more than 2 500 violent offenders in cities across the world and she supported law enforcement i have to tell you how proud i am in our first three years because of the economic policies we advanced we had the lowest unemployment ever recorded for african americans with the highest funding ever for historically black colleges and universities we passed criminal justice record and we have fought to give every parent in every community the right to choose where their children go to school so we've supported law enforcement and we've supported our minorities and we'll keep going and every single day as we've supported the rule of law this president is stood strong for the right of every american to live the word to worship lord that dictates their conscience people of faith have no greater champion than president donald trump in this administration we restored the conscience rights of doctors nurses teachers and religious charities and president donald trump ended the assault on the little sisters of the poor and the supreme court voted seven to two to make it permanent think about that i'm the product of eight years of catholic education i have nothing but love and a deep respect for nuns can i get an amen on that anybody else thank you very much i think about that little sisters is poor these are incredible women answering all the faith of all of certain took a vow of poverty to do nothing other than help the underprivileged humans joe black was vice president they hauled them into federal court to force them to compromise their faith and live under the mandates of obamacare and believe it or not after the supreme court ruled joe biden announced that he was going to reimpose the obamacare mandates on the little sisters of the poor and religious institutions around the country in fact the religious intolerance spans their whole ticket his running name kamal harris actually attacked one of our nominees to the federal war because he was a member of the catholic knights of columbus let me make you a promise with four more years of president donald trump in the white house we're going to respect the religious freedom of every american of every faith so help us  god to serve alongside a president who stands without apology for the sanctity of your life where joe biden and donald harris support taxpayer funding of abortion all the way up to the moment of birth president donald trump has stood strong for the unborn and president trump is the most pro-life president in american history  so we've rebuilt our military revived our economy stood for law and order liberties and life let me say none of that would have been possible without the strong and consistent support of michigan's republican delegation on capitol hill that's why right after you send john james to the united states senate we need you to send bill paisinga fred upton john pollinar jack bourbon tim wahlberg and peter meyer to a new republican majority in the house and retire nancy pelosi you know when you look at what we all were able to accomplish with republican majorities in the house our first two years we made america great again and then the coronavirus struck from china but i can tell you when there were only five documented cases of coronavirus in the united states all of which had come back from china president trump did what no american president had ever done he suspended all travel from china the second largest he said it was xenophobic in fact he wrote in the week before i always keep an eye on the flag  the week before the president made that decision you all deserve to know joe biden said to make things worse it's close off travel for sure in fact back when they were dealing with the h1n1 in 2009 when joe biden was vice president they uh they refused to close the board of the mexico but i want to tell you firsthand is the head of the white house corrupt virus president trump's action suspending all travel from china saved untold american lives and brought us in valuable time to stand up the greatest national mobilization we saw to the manufacturer the delivery of billions of supplies of ppe and medical equipment to our incredible doctors and nurses we've been developing medicines and therapeutics at a record pace and we're on track to have the first safe and effective vaccine before the end of this year with tens of millions of doses available as president trump said saturday on the south law with the power of american science and medicine we will eradicate the china by responsible you know i spoke to the president this morning told him i was headed to michigan and i'm happy to report to each and every one of you he's back on the plane today president the first lady are doing great and he is out on the campaign not just for the first family but forever those of you that are here and looking on the lost loved ones are struggling with this virus the outpouring of concern across the country the president the first lady is really just emblematic of what the american people have done in fact could we just take a minute we just say uh show how grateful we are to the doctors the nurses the first responders thank you i promise all of you we're going to keep making sure that our doctors and nurses have all the resources they need to provide the level of health care to anyone in this country that we want a family member of ours in but we're going to keep protecting the baltimore and keep saving lives while joe biden is talking about shutting down the economy under president donald trump we're opening up america again you know in just the last five months after losing 22 million jobs at the height of this pandemic because of the foundation that we pour because of the extraordinary recovery and relief that the president secured from the congress for families and businesses we've already seen 11 and a half million americans go back to work including nearly 600 000 people right here in michigan so we're opening up america and we are opening up america's schools last week we started distributing 100 million rapid point of care tests to school nurses and administrators all across america so we can get our kids back in the classroom and keep them back in school where they belong and thanks to president trump's leadership a week from this saturday big ten football is back michigan state will be back with the gridiron and spartan stadium in the wolverines will be back in the big house we're coming back we're coming back we've got a great american comeback the truth is we've gone through a time of testing in this last year but in less than three weeks we're going to come with time for choosing that's the reason why we're all here today and i want to tell you from my heart i think the choice in this election has never been clear the stakes have never been higher it's amazing to think in the middle of a global pandemic joe biden wants to raise taxes by four trillion dollars president trump we not only cut taxes across the board our first four years we're going to keep cutting taxes for middle-class americans from florida joe biden wants to bury our economy under an avalanche of red tape the president had to remind him the other night that he actually supports the green new deals he wants to put us back in the paris climate accord president trump we've been cutting red tape at a record pace that we still have the cleanest air and land and water in history and america is a net exporter of energy for the first time in 70 years when it comes to trade and jobs truth is when we took office america was losing 500 billion a year in our trade imbalance to china where joe biden's been a cheerleader for communist china all along the way he said that the rise of china was a positive development president trump put china on notice on day one he said the era of economic surrender is over on china to level the playing field we're going to stand strong until they respect american workers and respect american property and here in the heartland i don't have to tell any of you about the impact of that it's amazing to think the days since nafta was signed into law we literally saw 60 thousand american factories close many of those jobs go south out of the hoosier state i saw one community almost entirely shuttered as thousands of jobs disappeared overnight and left our shores the truth of the matter is all along the way joe biden never lifted a finger to reform to renegotiate in a way that put american jobs automotive jobs here in the heart thanks to the man who wrote the art of the deal america's got a way better deal nafta is gone and the united states mexico canada agreement is here i may not know usmca is a huge win for america but it's a big win for michigan and michigan auburn under the usmca 75 of all auto parts have to be made in north america and 40 of them have to be made by workers making the average hourly wage equal to the average hourly wage in the united states of america we are protecting american workers protecting american jobs with the usfca now the people of michigan deserve to know not only did joe biden not lift a finger to reform it for all those years but joe biden's running mate kamala harris was one of only 10 senators to vote against the uss she said the usmca didn't go far enough on the planet ship the truth is kamala harris put her radical environmental agenda ahead of michigan auto workers and michigan auto jobs that's one more reason why michigan needs to say no to joe biden and kamala harris and yes it's not just about jobs you know joe biden and kamala harris are planning a government takeover kabla harris was the original ghost monster of bernie sanders and joe biden added what's called a public option to obamacare that would send america on an inevitable path towards socialized medicine president trump and i we've been working to give the american people better health care we've lowered the cost of prescription drugs across the country we have expanded right to try for families to have access to life-saving medicine and we are going to have health care that protects pre-existing conditions and lowers the cost of health insurance without growing the science of our health government system in a way that respects the doctor-patient relationship is built on the power of the free market and makes sure that america will never be a socialist country truth is when you unhealthy at their agenda it's clear joe biden would be nothing more than a trojan horse for the radical now joe biden says that democracy is on the ballot president and i believe that our economic recovery is on law and order are all about but i think there's also things far more foundational to our nation that are on the ballot as well you know in this election i think it's not so much whether we're going to be more conservative whether we'll be more republican or more democrat more red i think the choice in this election is whether america remains america it's whether we're going to chart a course based on our highest ideals of freedom free enterprise personal responsibility traditional values or whether we're going to let joe by the democratic party and the radical left take us on a leftward path towards socialism so let me say all of you gathered here on this blustery day for our freedom and all the ideals that have always made america great we need to decide right here and right now that joe biden will never be president of the united states so i need you to be out there folks i need you to tell your neighbors and friends what four more years means telling you rovered lacks enterprises you ran into michaels standing in front of this view four more years means more judges four more years means more support for our troops and our beliefs you tell them i said it's going to take at least four more years to drain that swamp you know folks i've served alongside this president the last three and a half years i've only known him we've been a few times some people think we're kind of different but actually we've become very close and i serve alongside every day and i can tell you that when the cameras are off the bright lights are off there's not a day off that president donald trump hasn't gotten up and fought to keep the promises that he made to the people of michigan now it's our turn to fight for him first and foremost the next 20 days or on election day i need you to vote michigan vote for four more years president donald trump in the white house called early voting started on september 24th here in michigan you don't have plans tomorrow you can actually head down cascade township clerk's office they're open 9-1 28-65 lower hills southeast right here in grand rapids and remember friends don't let friends vote alone bring a family member bring a neighbor bring a co-worker and vote for four more years of president donald like you're doing trump i need you to go out and tell the story i need you to bring the enthusiasm talk to your neighbors and friends and worship and work say you know what i ran into mike the other day at lax enterprises that guys stood out there talked for like an hour just like summarizing everything that we got done how this president has led us it was tell them about the challenging you know honestly uh keep thinking about this time of the election four years and all the polls back then kind of like now it looks so good i mean literally we had a whole range of different polling one where we were losing by a lot others were losing by law right but i knew something else was going on as i was traveling around the country i was seeing good people like you i saw the tens of thousands of people coming out for our candidate i'm seeing the hundreds of people that were coming out when i saw the determination on people's faces we knew that in some real senses the american people were turning down the sound on all the experts pundits and police  you know it's great to be back in grand rapids because uh the president of the campaign actually ended early in the morning just right past midnight i looked up this little timex watch and i remember i leaned in and i said welcome to election day the day that donald trump's going to be elected president of the united states and he was and we had like 20 000 people out after midnight and when he arrived he gave a talk like from one in the morning to two in the morning the enthusiasm was incredible but i'll never forget what he said to me when he came off the stage the crowd was thundering it was two in the morning early on election day he came walking off that stage he slapped me on the shoulder and he said mike i don't know about you this doesn't look like second place and it still does it michigan we're gonna deliver a but i encourage you to do like you did before right after you vote with a four years friend  and lastly i just say one more thing you know as i've traveled all across this country the last four years i've come to two foreign convictions america is a freedom of nation and america is a nation of faith and for all the time you turn on the television like a question i got from a little girl at the end of the vice presidential debate you turn on the tv and it seems like people are always arguing it seems like it's more deficient than ever before i truly do believe that this will always be more that unites us in this country that could ever divide us  so i would just say to each one of you as we work as we work to get out of the bubbles remember those ancient words that americans have clung to in much more challenging times and if his people were he'll hear from heaven and he'll heal his life it is one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all so pray for america pray for all of the american people so thank you all for coming out thank you for your enthusiasm i got a plane to catch and we're going to take this message all across america but i leave here today with renewed confidence and if all of us do all we need to do in the next 20 days all across the state of michigan we're going to make michigan and america a more prosperous scenario we're going to make michigan and america safely today john came to the united states in a new republican majority in the congress and with president donald trump in the white house for four more years and with god's help  is
i love georgios i love being with you this is georgia this is macon georgia we won macon georgia we're going to win it again it's great to be back in the heart of this incredible state with the thousands of loyal hard-working unbelievable american patriots thank you very much and 18 days from now we're going to win the state of georgia we're going to win four more years and that beautiful and incredible in so many ways that beautiful white house right and just remember early voting is underway get out and vote go out and vote so we're running against perhaps the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics can you believe this did you watch last night i mean give me a break but actually i wish it was a good candidate because it actually puts more pressure on you running against a guy like this sleepy joe biden is the living embodiment of the corrupt political class that enriched itself while draining the economic life and soul from our country you know what's happened you know very well in georgia what happened for the last 47 years joe biden shipped away your jobs shut down your factories threw open your borders and ravaged our cities while sacrificing american blood and treasure in endless and ridiculous foreign wars and places you've never even heard of before how ridiculous he's a servant of the wealthy donors globalists and special interests who got rich bleeding america dry and by the way i could call these guys every one of them would give me millions i'm president i called heads of wall street firms i'd say hey do me a favor could you give me five million every single one i can't do that though because you know what if i do that i gotta do things for them and i don't wanna do i wanna do what's right i could call i could raise more money i can raise more money i've been a world's greatest fundraiser but i just don't want to do it because then they call you and you sort of say hey you know they treated me good i got to treat them good i know you don't think that's the way the system works but that's the way the system i guess works unfortunately but it doesn't work that way for me in 2016 you voted to fire this corrupt and decrepit political establishment and you elected an outsider as president to finally put america first and we've learned over the last couple of months joe biden is a corrupt politician he's a corrupt politician and the biden family is a criminal enterprise frankly it makes crooked hillary clinton look like an amateur now whoever saw anything like this he goes to china the kid is following like a vacuum cleaner he follows the follows of follow and unfortunately it sounds like he left his laptop behind or they have thousands here's a guy didn't have a job but now he's taken in millions and plenty of it goes to joe biden too don't kid yourself it goes to joe but did you see the one today the guy gets 10 10 i wonder who the guy is this was not a good between anthony weiner's laptop and this laptop these are two beauties i think this one could be worse than the wiener laptop yet this massive scandal is being covered up by the media and big tech right all those people so here we have think of it here we have the biggest scandal going on anywhere in the world the corruption of joe biden in the biden family and he's interviewed last night by stephanopoulos on abc and they don't even ask him the question about it no no think of it they don't even ask him a question like you know like how come your son got three and a half million dollars from moscow right from moscow russia because they were the ones involved with russia it turns out not me it was the opposite but why did your son get three and a half million from the wife of the mayor of moscow think of it think of it a little question like that remember chris wallace said oh well you shouldn't ask him that question why is that chris tell me he's no mike he's no mike chris is no mike but then the other one how about this a billion dollars get rid of the prosecutor otherwise you don't get the billion dollars from the united states but that's turning out to be peanuts compared to what we're finding now now he wants 10 million dollars from china to make an introduction would anybody here take 10 million to introduce somebody to your father i do it dad i do it for 10 million bucks i'd love to introduce i would do it pop and he'd want me to do a 10 million dad please i had a great father i'm not just running against biden and that corrupt family i'm running against the left-wing corrupt media and we're running against big tech this is a hell of a big crowd right look at that thickest all the way back but you know the media they never show it you ever notice you go home they show me and about three people behind me people left right four stars they end up three plus one thank you you know it's very i love that but no politician i believe has ever heard that chant really we love somebody no think of it reagan i love reagan he was a wonderful guy you never heard the chant we love rankin with you never heard that this started a few weeks ago and it's amazing and i appreciate it very much i do i appreciate it and i love this state i love georgia you know when you had the hurricane overdrive where it came in and wiped out a lot of your area david perdue is a fantastic guy who may be here someplace but david perdue called me said you got to do me a favor you got to help us with our farmers and we gave them a hell of a lot of money we helped they got wiped out by a hurricane you know you don't hit too many hurricanes right but this was a big monster that hit florida hit a lot of different areas hit alabama we took care of alabama we took care of georgia we took care of georgia took care of our farmers i'll never forget i stood i came here and i stood and i was with 32 farmers all of them got hit hard and one of them said sir i was a week away from having the best crop i've ever had and it got ripped apart just ripped apart it wasn't his fault and we took care of him we took care of all of them okay it made me feel good it made me feel good great people and they never asked for anything they just want a level playing field that's all they ever wanted and i raised by the way 28 billion thank you china because they targeted our farmers 12 billion and then the next year 16 billion dollars frankly you did better without even working if you want to know that came from china and we did a hell of a job and those farmers are all happy today but they were targeted by china we got 28 billion dollars in tariffs and we gave it to your farmers and everybody's uh doing just fine today right but the radical left is doing everything in their power to protect their chosen candidate who has no clue where he is he's gone they've nothing but disdain for you and for your values and the values of georgia i know georgia very well they flood your communities with criminal aliens with drugs crime while leaving behind and you see what they do they live in gated communities but they flood you out they complain about guns and they complain about everything and then they want to end your second amendment but they want protection for themselves they oppose school choice while sending their families to the best private schools we need school choice by the way they demonize our great kabbalah and you know you see this hello look how beautiful so beautiful they demonize our great police and law enforcement while hiring private security for themselves they attacked the second amendment every single day while employing armed guards and let me tell you i am the only thing standing in the way of you and your second amendment it's under siege that's a big deal they support crippling lockdowns while their jobs remain totally accept it's time we sent a message to these wealthy liberal hypocrites i could have every one of them by the way i mean just like i said before i can go i know these guys i can call them all hey do me a favor irving send me five million okay i'll do it donald i'll do it if you want it i oh man i got to do it do you mind if i take one week and just do it i will set the all-time record on fundraising man would i be good at that it's so easy i wouldn't have to explain a thing but they come from washington they come from new york they come from silicon valley and by the way those silicon valley guys are sort of getting caught aren't they huh section 230 i'm sure most of you don't know what that means section 23. these guys they're given powers they're given rights by washington and then they claim free speech right they claim but no but they're giving an exemption they're given a total exemption and they can't abuse that power and there's a lot of things going on right now and a lot of your people are looking we have some of those people here you're great congressmen senators and we'll be introducing them in a second but they're looking very hard at section 230. on election day you can send a message that the fake news media right there boy there are a lot of them look at that looks like the academy awards it's a lot of people there are a lot of people look at those cameras they're all running with those red lights but every time i mention their name those red lights go off you know the red lights that means you're live and then they start talking about it they say get the light off turn it off go to a break let's go to a break right now at fake news cnn they don't know what they are so fake they really are they're just disgusting nbc is no better did you get to see last night you did a good job but look i mean i could have had somebody else they're all the same i mean they ask you a question you give them an answer right but i want to tell you that she's like disappeared everybody thought it was so inappropriate here they give this guy softballs did you see a week ago lester holt lester holt another genius lester hawk here's mr vice president sir what did you have for dinner sir and in savannah it was like her face to the anger the craziness i mean the craziness last night and i said goodbye i said great job savannah you did wonderfully good job but we got very high marks for that last night but they thought it was very unfair that that sleepy joe who cannot answer a question he really can't answer a question well chris wallace protected him with me i talked about the moscow three and a half million payment i talked about the billion dollars chris wallace wouldn't let he said no that's not appropriate why you mean the guy's allowed to take three and a half million bucks so we're not allowed to talk to him about it i'm telling you that biden family and others but that biden family is corrupt it's a corrupt family and with me and my kids let me tell you my kids i'll tell you something though and it's very lock them up you should lock them up lock up the buttons lock up hillary guacamole can you imagine if my kids did what this guy hunter is doing ivanka oh my beautiful my wonderful ivanka she's an inner she's a good kid can you imagine and you know she's much smarter much sharper she could if she wanted to how could she do well and don and eric and tiffany they're just they're good kids but you know we don't do things we don't it's like boy they'd make a fortune just think of it and when you look at what they get away with and by the way biden's brother try that one i won't go too deep in the family i'm not looking to insult everybody but honestly in my opinion it's a criminal enterprise it's a criminal enterprise he's like a vacuum cleaner the father goes through and the son comes in a vacuum cleaner millions of dollars pouring it take a look at the way they live 47 years he's a politician he lives very well almost as well as maxine waters you ever see her house maxine maxine waters what a beautiful house she lives in i wonder how that happened on election day you can send a message that the fake news media can't get away with it any longer we can't let them get away with it and these big tech companies you know it's funny because i've heard about the big tech companies i didn't care too much and i heard the power was unbelievable and it's like 99 for the other side and i kept hearing about big tech the power the power the power that i ran i kept hearing it you know what the hell in one ear out the other but i kept hearing and we won so i kept hearing after that we won and i said well wait a minute if they're so powerful how come we won right they were 100 against us but now it's gotten worse and worse and now they've gone crazy they've gone crazy how about our magnificent kaylee right so kaley i don't know what the word would be i guess suspended but they suspended her account because she posted an article from the new york post which is one of the largest papers in the country which by the way i want to thank them they've the one paper they've really got guts they're printing this stuff they've got to be making a fortune as much as they can make in that industry nowadays but you know when you look at the failing new york times and the washington post they don't want to write about it they don't want to write it this is the biggest political scan no i'm sorry it's the second biggest political scandal the biggest political scandal we caught them that's when they spied on our campaign and tried to take down your president but this is the second biggest political scandal these are a bunch of bad people and you think it's fun doing what i do right now i had a great life i want to tell you i was doing well i was having a lot of fun but you know what i would never give up what we've achieved think of what we've achieved the other side mean honestly there are a lot of successful people there are a lot of people they're successful a lot of them right here a lot of successful people but nobody in first three and a half years nobody first three and a half years nobody has achieved the history of our country what we've achieved with our military with our tax cuts with our regulations with all of the things that we've done nobody has done as much as we've done things like right to try things like space force thank you very much you know i always get them i said turn the cameras turn the cameras so we just left florida we had a crowd that was like like this it was massive it went on forever i said turn the cameras show the crowd they don't realize it's actually good for them because it's exciting it's like being in a florida state florida ohio state if you want to say it's a massive football game you know before we had a social distance where you have all these empty seats right you'll be back very soon you'll be back very soon but but and then of course georgia not bad you're doing okay but but and who's the greatest of them all from georgia who's the greatest of them all from georgia herschel hershey by the way how good was herschel walker right he made a lot of quarterbacks look good hear her she'll run it boom six yards nine yards 10 yards 100 yards and he's on our side and he's an incredible guy herschel walker i remember when he was playing here they had like the ballad the ballot to herschel walker he was like just a legendary guy remember from the time he started just boom six yards eight yards 10 yards and then the quarterback goes he says i think i'm going to sign with the nfl it's like amazing but herschel's been great and hershel loves his state and the fact that we have his endorsement so strongly i mean so strongly we we love it but what a great football player he was what a great winner we want to thank hershel the ballot to herschel on november 3rd show the people the great american people that we're in charge that we're delivering sleepy joe biden and that whole group of radical left crazies and by the way he's not really radical left but he's got no choice he's got absolutely nothing going they're running the party how about kamala kamala how good did mike pence do so how good did mike pence do a week ago that was easy that was easy mike is great he's doing a great job and he really did he did a great job uh but it's very unfair you know it's so unfair when you watch when you watch okay you watch last night and you see the anger and the hatred i'm saying look let's just do this thing just take it easy relax just relax take it nice and easy okay okay she said but i told you that's true i thought i said i don't believe you why would i believe you you know you see that where she's screaming i said well who told me i told you i said who cares if you told me what are you telling me but we got very high marks but compare that could you imagine if joe biden was treated like savannah guthrie treated us not me it's us could you imagine he would be freaked out he would probably be under the table he would be under the table and she's easy compared to president xi and putin in kim jong-un and plenty of others she's like uh easy pickings but could you imagine if she came at him did you see now i was interviewed a couple of weeks by by george stephanopoulos and it was a tough interview but it was fine i don't say like you know give me the answers and the questions do you ever see where they ask him a question and then he starts reading the and that means he has the answers to i never saw anything like what's going on in my entire life they asked how about did you see that a week ago i said move it up a little closer i can't read the damn answer they this is the fake news i've been saying it i am so proud of the fact that i've exposed these people for what they are true look at all that equipment it's millions of dollars worth of equipment and you know what if they were truthful our country would come together so fast it's really true they're a big part of the problem i was saying today i was telling you when i was in florida i was telling the story that you know our people we're going to bring it all together and they said how are you going to do it through success because we were ready we had the most successful economy we've ever had we never had an economy african-american hispanic american asian-american women people with high school diplomas people without high school diplomas people from mit top of their class geniuses physicists chemical engineers everybody was doing better than they've ever done and then we had the plague sent to us by china we're not going to forget that we're not going to forget that we're not going to forget it and they know we're not going to forget it they know it damn well then we're not going to forget it and now we're we closed it down we saved millions of lives they don't say that you know we're over 200 000 that's terrible but compared to other nations it's it's amazing what we've been able to do but we saved millions it was supposed to be 2.2 million lives right and we saved millions of lives and now we're rebuilding it back and our economy is setting records what we're doing is if i don't sound like a typical washington politician is because i'm not a politician and if i don't always play by the rules of the washington establishment and it would make like you know it would make my life a lot easier to be honest i know how to play those roles remember they used to say and i used to play the game about acting presidential i'm smart guy were a lot of smart people here i'm smart and i always said it's much easier to be presidential than to do what i do right remember and i said i'm more presidential if i wanted to be but i got to get things done i don't have enough time there's so many stupid things that happen with bad deals stupid deals bad trade deals but do you remember i used to go and i would have fun but i'd used to go and i'd imitate a president who's playing presidential that's so easy compared to what we do what we do is much more difficult i said i can be more presidential than any president in our history with the possible exception of abraham lincoln when he wore the hat that was tough to people that was tough to think but you remember i did we had fun with it we'd say ladies and gentlemen of georgia this is your president and it is a great honor to be with you tonight things are going very well with our country our military is building and you know so i could do that and you know within about three minutes everybody would pick up and they'd say let's get the hell out of here this guy's now we're doing a great job we're renegotiating these horrible trade deals we're bringing our people back home our soldiers our great heroes because i was elected to fight for you and i fight harder for you than any president has ever fought for the people of this country thank you thank you very much thank you by the way i have to tell you the spirit in this country is unbelievable but the spirit in these rallies are unbelievable and and you know hey we were in minnesota we're going to win minnesota you know minnesota i think hasn't been once since 1972. we're going to win minnesota we're going to win minnesota opened up the iron ore we opened up areas of minnesota that they closed in maine obama took away 5 000 square miles of ocean can you believe it i gave it back to the people of maine we're doing things that nobody's uh nobody's ever thought about doing ever done we went into you take a look at take a look at minneapolis the place was burning down the national guard goes in 30 minutes would you say remember they formed that beautiful scene after watching this for a week and a half and we want to do it with portland portland would be so easy wise guys they're just wise guys these are wise guys in there you know you had the one guy who killed somebody in the street took him three days to arrest i sent in the u.s marshals you know 15 minutes later it was over i said why hasn't that guy been they all knew who they were putting his picture up i said why hasn't he been arrested well sir there howard i said really you got another day we sent in the u.s marshals in 15 minutes we have the greatest law enforcement people in the world 15 minutes later it was all over for him but the forces opposing me in washington are the same people who are responsible for every disastrous trade deal foreign policy blunder and border security betrayal look at our border our southern border is so great by the way we've topped 400 miles building 10 miles a week it'll be finished very soon but it's had an incredible impact our border has never been as good we got rid of catch and release all the stuff that everybody said would be impossible but it's been incredible and mexico is paying for the world you do know that okay they like to say now finally they say okay he's building the wall but mexico is not paying for it no no mexico is paying for it they know that but they don't like to say it no we're doing uh some incredible things this is the most important election in the history of our country and i used to even two three months ago i said well you know this is like very important but 2016 was important this is more important this is war and you know success will bring us together as i was saying but you know what else is going to bring us together a victory because they're just going to finally say let's just give up they're going to say these people can't be beaten they're going to say these people can't be beaten and many of them were so happy two weeks ago they heard trump tested positive they were so happy and then i got out like right away here i am like a long time i could they say can you imagine he won't be able to hold any more rallies he'll be recovering or worse or worse he'll be recovering or worse and like uh 12 minutes later here we are you know like don't forget i've been doing this for a long time already this is not my first rally right but all these rallies are like this the spirit of this country is unbelievable and that's what we have and even the fake news admits we have more enthusiasm than any candidate in the history of this country true and he has less enthusiasm in my opinion than any candidate i think he's the weakest candidate in the history of presidential politics i really mean it now with all of that being said they have a corrupt media they have big tech they have all of this stuff it's a very powerful party and they have advantages you know they automatically win new york i don't know why new york is doing so badly they automatically win california i don't know why california is doing so badly the forest fires no water no there's no that you know minor little problems they automatically win illinois i mean we got to run the table we got it's automatic because it's just the way it falls you know winning the electoral college is a very very hard thing to do and we just ran the string right but it's a very hard thing to do but we're winning in florida we're winning here you know it's amazing like if he came here sleepy joe if he came here honestly if they announced they'd work really hard to try and find people now i really mean this we have tens of thousands look at this this thing goes back way way back i wish they wouldn't give these guys a good look i wish they'd moved them back 100 yards and i'm telling my people i just i'll save a little time my people please from now on could you please move the fake news media back like another 100 yards i hope you're listening too no because you know what those cameras they have magnifiers on they can be back and you can get a lot of people so instead of standing behind the camera and looking at the cameraman's ass we don't need that okay just move them back and we get more people up here because it goes back forever thank you back there we love you thank you but we're going to move it back move them back this can only happen in georgia you know i have an idea just gave me an idea we'll have a new t-shirt tomorrow morning move them back well we did it with you know we did it with this crazy hunter hunter biden remember where's hunter i kept saying where the hell is hunter because he was gone you know they caught him stealing a lot of money so he like disappeared remember and we i said where's hunter and then i said wait a minute that's a great idea for a t-shirt we came out with a t-shirt where's hunter it became one of the big successes of the year where's hunter we were talking today about drug prices and you know in this country we have a very bad system and we have middlemen that are very rich and i was talking about how we're cutting out the middleman oh these are not people that like me very much and we're going with favorite nations and all that stuff we're getting your drug prices down 60 70 80 but the middlemen the middlemen are making all of this money tremendous they're very wealthy they don't even do anything frankly at least the drug companies they make the drug so we're talking about we're talking about the middlemen and i say wait a minute i think i know one of the middlemen it must be hunter hunter biden is a middleman on top of everything else china ukraine russia plus he's a middleman what a family biden's made a corrupt bargain in exchange and that's what he's done it's a corrupt bargain in exchange for his party's nomination which by the way should have gone to bernie you know elizabeth warren pocahontas if she would have left a day before super tuesday joe biden would not have won any of those states they split up the vote it was super liberal her and it was crazy bernie and i say it all the time i think bernie sanders is the nicest greatest loser i've ever seen because now it's true and i mean this and you know we're going to get a lot of their votes because they love us on trade because the one thing bernie's right on is every country in this world including our so-called allies excuse me are there any children in the house okay close your ears children screw those don't trade and bernie's people know that and bernie's into the problem is bernie wouldn't be able to do anything about i've done a lot about it i've done a lot about it but you know that's why we got a lot we got a big percentage of bernie people and because they didn't like hillary but they don't like joe and we're going to get a lot of burning people so i have to be nice to bernie but i consider him a really good loser because he loses with such he's so nice about it he loses i mean what she did to him was bad but this was in a way worse because all elizabeth warren had to do is leave the campaign didn't even have to endorse him and he would have gotten votes and he would have won every single state on super tuesday and that didn't happen and so now we have a guy with a little bit larger base but no energy here we would have had somebody with a smaller base but with tremendous energy but not as much energy as we do and we have a big base so i like that a long complex story but what the hell i have nothing but time right what the hell in exchange for his party's nomination he's handed control and you know that in exchange to the socialists and the marxists and the far left lunatics if he wins the radical left will be running this country they're addicted to power and god help our country if that happens i really mean it you'll never make a comeback it'll be a large-scale version of venezuela i've been saying that for a year but i've never met it like i mean it now the only difference is the size because the ideology is the same venezuela 20 years ago less was so wealthy one of the wealthiest countries it had oil it had everything very very magnificent now they don't have water they don't have medicine they don't have food everyone's fleeing the country you know the only difference is the size but the ideology when you look at a portland i want them to let us in i said governor of oregon i said let us come in i want to solve your problem but they're radical left democrats you know it's just like the craziest thing but that's what venezuela is they're anarchists you look at some of these cities they're anarchists and they don't want to say and the press wants to call them peaceful protests and we originally had a hard time we had a hard time they didn't want us to have any rallies in certain states and then i realized you're not allowed to go to church you're not allowed to have dinner with people you're not allowed to do anything unless in michigan you happen to be married to the governor because her husband you're not allowed to go sailing unless you're married to the governor of michigan in which case you can go sailing remember that did she get caught or what now she's blaming me because people were whatever i don't know what's going on i don't know i wasn't and it was our people that caught them right it's trump's fault always trump's fault isn't it incredible and yet we did our favor who knows i mean they have to look at that whole thing too but we are doing an incredible job in this country this country is great and we have spirit like nobody's had spirit and there's going to be a red wave next week that's going to be unbelievable and they're talking about it look at that it's millions of dollars worth of equipment and they'll never turn it around to show those people back there because they want to say donald trump had a rally in georgia there was a smattering of people a small smattering no it's amazing nobody's ever had what we've had and you're gonna have a red wave they call it a red wave one of these characters standing right there he said uh it could be a red wave don't say there could be there will be it's gonna be a wave and they don't want to go the phony uh unsolicited ballot you know they send ballots out by the millions they don't have no idea well they do actually have an idea where they're going that's what really but we say who's sending them where are they going who's getting them who's delivering them who's signing them what the hell are they doing and then if you say that they go he's not for freedom he's not for freedom and they know better than you do it's a big con job so we have to be very very careful with the ballots because they find ballots in a garbage can last week military ballots it had the name trump on them and they're in a garbage can they found 50 000 ballots from ohio they find him from north carolina dumped in a river they find him i think 500 000 ballots in virginia they were incorrect they're printing them wrong they had one little problem on one set of ballots thousands and thousands thousands they forgot to put the name of donald trump on the ballot other than that the ballot was quite good okay no no this is a serious and i'm being serious about this these people are doing a tremend
 it it's great to be back on the farm be quite honest with you for this future it's great to be here with some incredible people you join me in thanking congressman david rouser he is an incredible conservative voice an ally for this administration every day  and also i'm honored to be here the next superintendent of public instruction for north carolina catherine truman is with us to all my fellow americans from near and far i know it's been a long time since the president was here in north carolina he was here yesterday i'm here today because we love north carolina it is great to be back so thank you all for coming out take a seat if you have one i really honored today in the middle of the day but i'm here for one reason and one reason and that is that north carolina and america need four more years of president donald trump in the white house it's on north carolina the president was in greenville yesterday and i'm here to settle today because the road to victory goes straight through north carolina just like last night you know four years ago a movement was born the movement of everyday americans from every walk of life we're all part of that it's amazing to be back on the farm i was talking to another friend from north carolina earlier today he told me about that uh that thursday before election day when you all gathered here maybe some of you are here 17 500 people strong four years ago this month it laid a pathway for victory in north carolina and victory all across america i mean here in north carolina you believe we could be strong again you believe we could be prosperous again you said yes to president donald trump when he visited the farm back in 2016 so i thought i'd come back to make sure that north carolina says yes to president donald trump we're back and it really is great to be with you all we've been traveling all across the country this last week i've been in michigan and wisconsin florida yesterday and i was uh i was actually in utah some people think i did all right but you know honestly because that debate was not just a debate between two candidates it was a debate between two visions it was a debate between a vision that i believe would lead our nation on an inexorable path for socialism and decline in the vision of a president an administration and a people that will lead to more freedom and more opportunity for every american you know when you compare the biden-harris agenda with our agenda the choice is clear if you cherish faith and freedom and law and order and life in 18 days we need to re-elect president donald trump for four more years you know it's amazing to think about all the progress four years ago when you gathered here at the farm with a candidate donald trump we were inheriting a military that had been hollowed out by years of devastating budget cuts our economy was struggling to break out of the slowest recovery since the great pressure terrorism was on the rise around the world and we're still we witnessed a steady assault on our most shared values but in our first three years all that changed we provided for the common defense we cut taxes we rolled back regulation unleash american energy supported law enforcement life and liberty and the constitution of the united states of america and i have to tell you standing here about an hour away from one of the largest and most important military bases in the world the home of the airborne and special operations forces north carolina should be proud every day of the men and women of fort bragg i visited those amazing soldiers not long ago on their behalf and it is the proud father of the united states marine and the father-in-law of the united states i am proud to report to you that under president donald trump's leadership in less than four years we've rebuilt our military we've restored the arsenal of democracy and we are finally giving our soldiers sailors marines coast guard and space force the resources and support that they need to defend this nation president donald trump has actually signed the largest increase in our national defense since the days of ronald reagan that includes 300 new tanks and we passed the largest military pay raise for our men and women in uniform in more than 10 years and with that renewed american strength we've taken the fight to radical islamic terrorists on our turns on their soil in fact last year america's special forces captured the last inch of territory of the isis caliphate and they took down their leader without one american casualty abu bakr you know that that mission was named operation failure it was named after an incredible young woman when i was in salt lake city when joe biden was vice president of the united states our military came to the white house said that the number carrier was being held by daddy she was held for 18 months and dealt with inexplicable terrors and abuse the history of courts when they came to the white house under the obama administration our military had planned to go in but they delayed fully for a month and by the time our special forces went in they arrived on the scene and all the evidence suggested that taylor miller had been moved two days before it's about the age of my two daughters i can't even imagine the loss of that family experience and they said they truly believed if president donald trump had been president that things would be different caleb in real time aerial video coming in as operation caleb mueller descended on abba buckerback daddy and took him down justice sir president donald trump will never hesitate to use the power of the american military to protect the american people so we've rebuilt our military and under president trump's leadership we revive this economy we jump started in an economy that literally was going through the slowest recovery since the great was vice depression they tried to tax and spend and regulate america back into a growing economy president trump in our first three years we cut taxes across the board we rolled than any back in american history we unleash american energy fought for free and fair trade and businesses large and small created more than seven million good paying jobs including 240 000 jobs right here and i have to tell you as the son of the heartland myself i grew up with a cornfield in my backyard i couldn't be more proud standing in this beautiful north carolina park to serve alongside a president who has always fought for family farmers and ranchers every single day you know when we cut taxes the president uh made it possible for what's called immediate expensing of equipment anybody knows anything about farming knows the input cost is the biggest challenge so it was a tremendous farmers with the cost of equipment of a combine and a really good tractor that reminds me of the story of a farmer that women see his lawyer he said he had a problem with a neighbor the lawyer said do you have a good case he said  and president trump has been fighting for foreign  and we reformed that rule and took a stand for private property and thanks to the president's leadership when we passed that tax cut bill we repealed the inheritance tax for nearly every family farmer in america death is no longer a taxable event that's how you keep the family farm in the family in north carolina so we stood for our security we stood for prosperity in the city and on the farm and every single day president donald trump is still strong for the rule of law as i stand here today i'm proud to report we've seen more than 230 conservative men and women confirmed to our federal courts at every level and they are all jurors who will uphold the god-given liberties enshrined in our constitution like the freedom of religion the freedom of speech and the second amendment right and let me tell you that that level of uh success literally transforming our judiciary in three and a half short years would not have been possible without the strong and consistent support of senator tom tillis so north carolina right after you get done re-electing president donald trump for four more years we need you to send senator tom tillis back to the united states senate for six more years you know last month we rightly paused to honor the life and service of the late justice ruth bader yesterday but when the memorials were over president trump fulfilled his constitutional duty and he nominated a brilliant principled conservative woman who loves the constitution to the supreme court of the united states judge amy coney barrett she's amazing one of the reasons why we could continue to call on democrats to give judge barron a respectful and dignified confirmation but we had reasons to be concerned based on the democrat ranking member of the judiciary committee actually said she was concerned about judge barrett's catholic faith she said quote the dogma lives loudly within you and hollywood started off this time just the same criticizing her faith and her convictions but i got news for the democrats that dogma lives loudly in me that dogma lives loudly in you and that dogma and the right to live to work to worship according to the dictates of your faith lives loudly in the constitution of the united states of america no the their senators to advise senator i'll make your prediction judge amy coney baron will soon be justice amy coney barrett  you know what we're talking about the supreme court with nine judges on the supreme court of the united states  the last night during a town hall on one of the networks joe biden actually said when you're running for the highest office in the land the american people deserve to know if you're going to respect  and cal cunningham to come clean give the american people a straight answer you know the truth of the matter is we all know i was born supreme court with liberal judges if they win but make no mistake about it  a republican majority in the united states senate and we're going to re-elect president donald trump for four more years we're going to stand for the rule of law and an independent judiciary  were stepped is an independent judiciary and president donald trump has stood every single day with the men and women who serve on the thin blue line of law enforcement and we always will you know the president i know you all know the men and women who put on the uniform of law enforcement across this  and they deserve the respect of every american every single day you know my uncle was a police officer for 25 years when i was growing up in that small town in southern indiana we used to drive up to chicago on the holidays in my grandparents living room when my uncle would come out of his bedroom with that uniform and a sidearm we just look up at him in awe all of my heroes wear uniforms now the president i will always support invite every american to the peaceful protest and enshrined in our constitution but rioting and living is not peaceful burning businesses is not free speech i was in indianapolis not long ago i traveled there with a wonderful african-american business owner named westbrook flora told me about the salon she discovered 35 years ago on a street in minneapolis the pillar of the community and how just two days after the killing of george floyd she watched this violent protesters getting closer and closer and closer until the night they burned her salon to the ground she and i stood there along with her first song and i looked her in the eye and i told her we're going to make our streets safe again for every american of every race  that's all we heard as people around this country literally watch businesses like floors burned around the truth is joe biden would double down on the very policies that are leading to violence when you withdraw support for those who protect and serve you only emboldened those who would do harm to our families that america is in his words systemically racist and he says that police have quote implicit bias against under president donald trump we're going back to blue we're not going to defund the police not now not ever we are going to have law and order in every city in every state for every american of every race and creed and color so help us god and supporting the african-american families and minorities that live in our major cities the truth is our administration has been supporting law enforcement some four thousand new police officers on the streets we launched operation legends we saw violence rise in our major cities but i also couldn't be more proud to be vice president to a president that saw the lowest unemployment ever recorded for african americans we saw the record invested in historically black colleges and universities so well represented here in north carolina we passed opportunity zones that have created investment and we support school choice so that any american any race or income can choose the children go to school we've supported law enforcement supported our african-american communities and we're going to do both for the next four years  so we stood for the rule of law  and from day one this president has stood strong for the right of every american to live to work to worship according to the victims you know when joe biden was vice president we saw a steady assault on the religious freedom of america it's true it's amazing to think the last administration literally hauled the little sisters of the poor into federal court to force that group of nuns to take a vow of lifetime poverty simply to serve the underserved community call them in the federal court to force them to compromise compromise their faith to live under the scriptures of obamacare trump we've restored the constant rights of doctors nurses teachers and religious charities and we ended the assault on the little sisters of the war and the supreme court of the united states made it permanent by vote of 72. i can tell you people of faith have no greater champion than president donald trump and finally and finally where joe biden and colin support taxpayer funding of abortion all the way up to the moment of increases birth largest abortion provider in america and want to fund and promote abortion around the world i couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a president who stands without apology for the sanctity of human life president donald trump is the most pro-life president in american history so we rebuilt our military we revived our economy we stood for all order of liberties in life did it all in the first three without the years and consistent support of north carolina's delegation of congress that's why when you re-elect president donald trump we need north carolina to send congressman david rouser congressman richard hudson and madison california and all the republicans in the house back to a new republican majority and retired nancy policy once and for all let's get it done i mean it's amazing  you look at what we were able to accomplish republican majorities in the house and the senate those first two years under this president's leadership in our first three years we made america great again true transmission happened in february in the month of january president donald trump did what no american president had ever done he put the help of americans first he suspended all travel from china in the world now joe biden said that was hysterical he said it was xenophobic  president donald trump's decision to shut down all travel from china saved hundreds of thousands of american lives and bought us time to stand up the greatest national mobilization since world war ii  medical supplies and equipment to our incredible doctors and nurses we've developed medicines that are literally saving lives across the country and we are on track to have the first safe and effective coronal virus vaccine before the end of this year that's leadership and let me say on behalf of the president and the first lady how much we've all been by the outpouring of prayers and concern  and the prayers that americans have for all of those who have struggled every day over these last eight months so can we just take a moment just give a round of   the nurses the caregivers the first responders and everyone who's been there for family members neighbors and friends who've suffered lost and struggled in the midst of this pandemic and i promise you we're going to keep leaning we're making sure that our doctors and nurses and hospitals have all the resources we're going to keep saving lives we'll soon have a vaccine and literally millions of doses available under operation in fact today the president announced the plan with cbs and walgreens to deliver and administer vaccines to our seniors and nursing homes for free all across america as soon as it's available so we're making progress where joe biden is talking about shutting down the economy under president donald trump we're opening up america again after losing 22 million jobs to the height of this pandemic in just the last five months we've seen 11.5 million americans already go back to work including 266 000 people right here we're opening up america and we are opening up america's schools i'm proud to report to you and we just authorized the distribution of over 100 million rapid tests 15-minute tests and we're shipping them out to school nurses and administrators all across america so we can get our kids back in the classroom and keep them back in the classroom safely where they belong it's not just been about what's happening in the classroom we're back in the gridiron the acc has been back for nearly a month tar heel football is back wolf pack football in his back pirates football is back and in a week i heard the targets of the wolf pack are going to be facing off at keene stadium how much do you love football in the fall i don't care who you are in 18 as dramatic as the choice was in 2016. i will tell you i think the choice has never been clear the stakes it's amazing joe biden wants to raise taxes by four trillion dollars right at the time that we're looking for businesses to open their doors to put americans back to they want to work american businesses with higher taxes the trump tax cuts on day one that would actually be the average in the midst of an american comeback that's putting more americans back to work every day the last thing we need to do is to have joe biden raising taxes on every american and every american business president trump not only cut taxes before we're going to keep cutting taxes for middle-class americans for four more years it's not just about taxes joe biden wants to bury our economy under an avalanche an important framework yeah it says  where we have the cleanest air and land ever recorded literally the cleanest water in the world and we're still in that exporter of energy for the first time instead of the year we can do it all can protect our environment and be energy independent that's the leadership of president donald trump and the president is talking today about seniors it seems like every time an election gets a little closer the democrats start talking about what republicans are going to do i'm here to tell you as president said today down in fort myers security and medicare every single day and we're going to protect it every day for four more years we lowered the cost of prescription drugs in fact medicare freedom advantage premiums actually fell by 34 where under uh 100 when joe biden's vice president prices literally skyrocketed and if you look at joe biden have a far left health care plan that literally threatens private health insurance and limit your choice of doctors remember he actually wants to keep obamacare going obamacare was a disaster remember they said if you like your doctor you keep not true wasn't true they said the church were going to go down  by the he's got a time option in his obamacare and bernie sanders has been bragging not long ago that he's going to be the one writing health care reform if they win and they win the white house with four more years president donald trump and i are going to give the american people but we're going to lower the cost of health insurance without growing the size of government and we will say with one voice america will never be a socialist country we're going to reject socialized medicine and we're going to give americans medicine and health care based on free market principles and consumer choice beyond healthcare the choice in this election couldn't be clear when it comes to trade so important in a place like north carolina you know when we took office was with china we were losing 500 billion dollars a year to come joe biden every step of the way it's true he said that the rise of china economically gave rise to those incredible deficits was a positive development president trump we put china is over he imposed paris and demanded that china open their markets to what we grow and what we make and respect the private property rights of every american and when it comes to our neighbors to the north and south i don't know about you here in north carolina 25 years after we literally saw entire communities shutters factories closed and jobs moved south of the border for all those 25 years to reform  is gone the usmca is here to say it's a huge win for north carolina north agriculture manufacturing in fact i'm told i'm actually told that experts suggested that we're going to sell 2.2 billion more in agricultural exports to canada and mexico alone now you all deserve to know though joe biden is one of the 10 members of the senate to vote against the us she said it didn't go far enough on climate change kamala harris put her radical and environmental agenda ahead of north carolina's farmers north carolina's president donald trump and i are always going to put american farms and american workers first so when you look at the choice joe biden says and i think our economic recovery is on the ballot i think law and order are on the ballot but i also think there are things much more foundational to our country that are on the ballot  more conservative or more liberal more red or blue i think the choice in this election is america whether we're going to chart a course on all the ideas of freedom and individual the responsibilities dream or whether we're going to let joe biden the democratic party and the radical left take america to a very different place less freedom less opportunity than a future american decline so let me say for our freedom for all the ideals we need to decide right here and right now that joe biden will never be president of the united states of america we're going to re-elect president donald trump for four more years  it's that important being here being here with all of your privilege let me also say the greatest church of my life to serve as your vice president the greatest privilege of my life i really didn't know him that well before he called me up and asked me to join this ticket a lot more than four years ago i never forget the night i was at the governor's residence in indiana and i told paul was coming in my wife and i prayed all the way through that i've seen this uh seeing this man up close i've seen his leadership i knew he had the right vision to bring his country back it's about eleven o'clock in the phone right my wife at my side i picked up the phone and i heard that familiar voice and he said mike it's gonna be great and then he said he said we're gonna have to work we're gonna have to go outside  and you know what he was right we made america great again in three short years four more years we're gonna make america even greater sale but it's going to take all of us against unprecedented opposition this prison hasn't gotten up and fought to keep the promises that he made to the people of this country now it's our turn to fight for him it's on north carolina we need to bring it so i got a couple things i want to ask you to do over the next 18 days first off i need you to vote north carolina i need you to vote for four more years of president donald trump in the white house you know early voting started we finish up yesterday if you don't have plans i'd like you to go over to the richard harrison gymnasium 601 west noble street president donald trump and remember friends don't let friends vote alone bring a family member bring in a neighbor bring a co-worker and vote to re-elect this president secondly  45 minutes of everything we've done we face as a nation you know what i got to tell you four years ago i just i never doubted i never doubted something very special that's happening across the country and i feel just the same way now because the truth is we can have an economy that works for everybody and opens the american dream to every american again we can have a government that respects our values and our freedoms and our highest ideals we're talking to each other so that's what i need you to do you just want to leave here your heart today talk to someone you're going to make the difference 2020 just like you did in 2016. and finally i um  where the spirit of the lord is freedom so that when we stand for freedom when we stand with those who are fighting for freedom and defending freedom that means freedom always how many times the nazarene told us to consider the farmer consider the farmer who patiently wastes to the land to yield his valuable crop waiting for the rain to fall and spring as you reach out and talk to your neighbors and friends every day over the next 18 days to continue to have courage and have faith that he who has seen this nation through much more challenging times than we could possibly imagine he's still with us today because god isn't done with america yet so pray for america pray for all the americans and i'm absolutely between our election day to vote to spread the word and to pray we're going to see another great victory all across north carolina and all across america we're going to make north carolina and america safer than ever we're going to make north carolina and america more prosperous than ever before and with congressman david richard hudson madison calthor and all their colleagues in a new republican majority in the house of representatives with senator tom tillis in a renewed republican majority in the united states senate with president donald trump in the white house for four more years and with god's help we will make america great again again thank you very much thank you north carolina god bless you and god bless america let's go get it done  songs  yes
victory we had always what a victory 14 days from now we are going to win the commonwealth of pennsylvania and we are going to win four more years in the white house with your vote we will continue to cut your taxes cut regulations support our great police protect our second amendment defend our borders keep jobs and wealth in america where it belongs thank you we will deliver record prosperity epic growth and you know that have you seen what's been going on how well we're doing did you see the recent poll just came out 56 of the people want to be here not four years ago they want to be with us in what we're calling we're rounding the turn on the pandemic 56 and it's a record epic job growth safe vaccines that quickly end the pandemic it's ending normal life that's all we want you know we want normal life normal life will finally resume and next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country this is an election between the trump super recovery which is happening right now and a biden depression if he gets elected you will have a depression the likes of which you've never seen  you know he's gonna double triple and now quadruple your taxes i don't think so i think i know the people of erie pretty well they don't like that it's a choice between our plan to kill the virus or biden's plan to kill the american dream and that's what he'd be doing biden will delay therapies postpone the vaccine prolong the pandemic close your schools shut down our country and by the way pennsylvania's been shut down long enough get your governor to open up pennsylvania get your governor to open it up he will massively raise your taxes bury you in regulations dismantle your police departments dissolve our borders confiscate your guns second amendment oh you're so lucky i'm president you wouldn't have a second amendment eliminate private health care terminate religious liberty destroy the suburbs i'm saving the suburbs i knocked out the regulation no you don't like projects being next to your beautiful house your american dream so much for the american dream and joe biden will ban fracking and abolish pennsylvania energy how many times did he say your fracking and mining industries will be outlawed exiled eradicated and totally extinguished and you know it because it's not up to sleepy joe he's gonzo it's up to the others of the party joe biden has repeatedly pledged to ban fracking right you've all heard it have you heard it till he got the nomination that he came to pennsylvania he said oh i guess it's okay it's always what they say first his running mate the most liberal member of the u.s senate sponsors the 100 trillion dollar think of that 100 trillion if we had a great year for a hundred years we couldn't make a hundred trillion dollars the 100 trillion dollar socialist green new deal which would eliminate fossil fuels at this very moment biden's website includes a pledge to mandate net zero carbon emissions which means he would end all fracking it's what he said he said it for a year and a half he said it under the obama biden administration more than 40 percent of all coal mining jobs will be destroyed totally gone and you know what's happened i mean did you see what they did to west virginia and other places including pennsylvania when they were here don't forget they've been here for eight years before me if they did a good job i would have never run i didn't need this i didn't need this although we're having a good time and we're doing a good job no but it's true if they did a good job i wouldn't have run  thank you thank you this is a lot of people there's a lot of people i always want the cameras to show they never like to show they don't like to talk about it you can hear how big these crowds are and by the way you know in all fairness to erie all over the country makes you feel good all over the country the biggest crouch anyone's ever had bigger than what we had four years ago bigger oh when you have to watch you have to watch what we do to 60 minutes you'll get such a kicker you're going to get a kick out of it leslie stahl is not going to be happy the democrat party hates fracking they hate call good beautiful clean coal they hate american energy and joe biden will shut it all down he's going to tonight i want to do something i want to give you this is an original donald trump broadway play and i had it done specifically first time i've ever pulled it out i had it done specifically for the people of erie because you guys like energy you like being energy independent do you like that energy doesn't that stuff we don't need all these faraway lands and everything else we are now energy independent and we're going to keep it that way take a look at this slip we had it made up and i think you're like first time i've ever done this right first time go ahead wherever it is put it up would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in the biden administration no we would we would work it out we would make sure it's eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those i guarantee we're going to end fossil fuel no more no new fracking i'd gradually move away from fracking and i think it's critically important on day one that we end any fossil fuel leases on public lands they want to do the same thing i want to do they want to phase out fossil fuels phase out there's no question i'm in favor of banning for acting  and what we don't show is his more current version oh yes we'll have bracket and the fake news they don't do anything about it they don't even talk to him about it but right now he's got bigger problems than fracking i think you know what it's called you know it's called the laptop from hell  to all the people of pennsylvania here this warning if biden's elected he will wipe out your energy industry you have a million jobs just like he wiped out your steel industry and i brought it back i brought it back only by voting for me can you save your fracking in pennsylvania we are going to have a great time because you are going to reject the radical left the united states and i say it and i'll say it a thousand times the united states will never be a socialist   think of it here we are in erie people as far as the eye can see look at that let me know it's a great honor it's a great honor for all of us we're all in this together we're all in it as long as i'm president we will remain the number one producer of energy anywhere in the world you know we're now number one in the world with pennsylvania you texas we have some great how about north dakota does a great job north dakota oklahoma so many diff ohio does a phenomenal job phenomenal a couple of ohioans and they have to have the fracking and they have to have the energy and we need the energy and you know you looked at your car when did you think you were gonna see two dollars a gallon unless you didn't think you're going to see that that's like a tax cut and at the same time our energy industry is is vibrant last year i visited the shell petrochemical plant in beaver county the largest investment in your state's history our opponents will put it out of business they want to put it out of business i don't think that's a great idea joe biden has made a corrupt bark in exchange for his party's nomination he's handed control of his party over to socialists i added another word communists marxists left-wing extremists and they're full of hate and rage and scorn for the middle class and for everybody frankly for the middle class and for everybody the biden harris kamala you like kamala  i'll tell you did our vice president do a great job i said mike that was too easy but the biden harris agenda is projected to slash the typical americans income by five 6 dollars in the wall street journal today a nightmare for pennsylvania family six thousand five hundred dollars and that's just cut it down what you could be making if you do this and what we're doing because for the last 47 years joe biden has been outsourcing your jobs offshoring your factories and selling out the american worker and who knows it better than pennsylvania look at all the empty hulks that you still have despite all the jobs we've brought back america lost 10 000 factories while he was vice president he has no clue by the way just so you understand he has no clue how many oh that's okay he's a servant of the globalist lobbyists wealthy donors and washington vultures who got rich bleeding american drug you know i said the other day i never thought of it because they're raising a lot of money 300 million i could be the king of all fundraisers i would be the greatest that ever lived the president of the united states all i have to do is give me a list of the top 100 companies i'll call the president of everyone they will pay me whatever i want i would set every record the problem is i'd owe them because when they call and they have a problem for a lot more money than we're talking about you know it's like hard to say no hey they were nice they treated you good i don't want to do that i don't want to do that we don't need the money i don't want to do that i don't want to go but when you see them raise 300 350 million dollars in a month and a half you know deals are being made just so you understand deals are being made big deals bills i mean look at the deals that he's making for himself okay but deals are being made in 2016 pennsylvania voted to fire this depraved political establishment and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting america first america the fact is whether you like it or not whether you want to hear it or not joe biden is a corrupt politician he's a corrupt politician and smoking gun emails show that the biden family sold the vice presidency for a very very substantial amount of money more money than anybody would believe he let china plunder your jobs while his family raked in millions of dollars from china and foreign nations the bidens got rich while pennsylvania got robbed and so did the rest of our country if biden wins china wins if biden wins china will own the usa and you know it there's no way he does anything about it and yet media and the big tech big tech they're desperately trying to cover up everything they don't want to hear speeches like this they don't want to hear anything about it this is a massive scandal that they're trying to suppress i'm not just running against biden sleepy joe i'm running against the corrupt media the big tech giants the washington swamp and the democrat party is a part of all of them every single one of them they flood your communities with criminal aliens drugs and crime while they live behind beautiful gated compounds they try to take away your gun second amendment they want to take it away while they enjoy private security that's fully armed they support crippling lockdowns like your governor is doing while their jobs and their industries remain totally exempt and it's time to send a message to these wealthy liberal hypocrites by delivering joe biden sleepy joe a thundering defeat on november 3rd got to get out and vote pennsylvania you got to get out and vote you know if we win pennsylvania we win the whole thing mean it's crazy they're saying oh it's his home state it's not his home state he left you when he was nine right his parents i'm not blaming him for that but you know he likes to go around yeah yeah how much my home says it's not his home state i actually went to college in pennsylvania okay so you know i think i have more in common but it's not his home state he comes from a place called delaware and he never leaves delaware i like delaware too but he never lives here he's making another speech from what doesn't make too many speeches either he took a five-day lid you know what a lid is i never heard liv lit is like they put the lid like a garbage can right they put them he took a five-day lift i mean this guy all he does is like stay home you know why you know why because he can't take any questions now from the press can't take any questions how about yesterday he finally went outside he went to get an ice cream and the press is standing there these are all killers i mean they're there they are look the fake news they're standing  and all they wanted to know think of me they're screaming at me like a all they want to know what flavor ice cream do you like well i like i like vanilla and chocolate thank you they don't ask me those questions if i don't sound like a typical washington politician it's because i'm not a politician and if i don't always play by the rules of the washington establishment it's because i was elected to fight for you and nobody has ever fought for you harder than i have that i can tell you i'm fighting so hard because i love my country i love you by the way but i love my country thank you thank you and this is a tough group in front the last time the last time they said that last time this guy said that to another man i doubt you have maybe dad maybe dad a long time ago but because i'm determined to ensure that the forgotten men and women of this country remember they showed up four years ago and they're showing up now you see what's going on do you see the lines do you see what's happening all over the country they still don't want to report it they know what it's going to be this is going to be bigger than four years ago there's more enthusiasm the crowds are bigger they'll never be forgotten again not after this one they tried to find out who are all these people that showed up last time now they're finding out again except even more so now you see what's going on though with the lines and everything and then they have the phony fake ballots all over the place they're throwing them in the garbage can oh they happen to have the name trump on them isn't it how about the ones that were printed without my name on it right they had everything on it they had every race they had everything you had the senate yet everything they forgot to put me down oh thank you and then they say he's against freedom uh it's wild the biden-harris war on police would be a catastrophe  for public safety you know i think i have every single  correct i like that i think we have every single endorsement even new york's finest new york city's finest we love our finals all right let's look is the mic ready yes  i wonder who did that to our mic i don't believe it was joe you know who it was crooked hillary must have i think it was probably crooked hillary but kamala kamala by the way she will not be your first woman president she will not be can't let that happen there'll be a woman president you cannot let that happen harris even urged their supporters to donate to a fund that bailed out writers right out of jail including attempted cop killers i will always stand with the heroes of law enforcement so will you and biden's policies would also decimate our seniors biden is pledging mass amnesty and free federal health care remember he did that at a stage you remember look she's shaking her head she remembers remember when he put up his hand you know after 47 years he knew it was not the right thing to do but everybody else was raising you know they're all radical left and he felt very uncomfortable but then he looked he looked over here looked over there they were all over the place these people they were all running for this beautiful office and he just got the hand up and i said thank you we just won the election and look we all have a heart you know but what happens is everybody comes in everyone's gonna we're gonna have millions of people pouring into it they get free health care they get free college they get a rose they get a rolls royce everybody gets a free rolls royce remember when i said that and cnn went crazy he knows they don't get a free rolls royce he lied to the american people oh these are sick people thank goodness they're rating cnn ratings did you see them they're so bad fredo all these people the ratings are so bad their ratings are terrible thank goodness but he will obliterate your medicare your social security i will always protect your medicare and your social security as i said  i'm also proud that here in pennsylvania your medicare advantage you know that everybody have it some people have it the premiums have decreased listen to this under our management 43 since i took office where do you hear that we will always defend our seniors and we defend them like nobody else can the battle against the china virus the china virus that's what it is it's in china you know they call it kofi they call it all different names it's the china virus or the china maybe the china plague we launched the largest mobilization since world war ii i'll tell you what the way they cover it we have done such an incredible we saved millions of lives they refused to cover not for me but for the people the admirals the generals mike pence everybody that worked so hard on this and they refuse to acknowledge it we made a lot of really bad governors look good and some good governors do just fine but a lot of bad governors we made them look good early on we took aggressive action we saved so many lives remember it was supposed to be 2.2 million under a scenario could have been more than that i took rapid action to ban travel from china and from europe heavily infected areas and by the way the scientists said oh don't do it two years two months later they were saying lucky he did do it biden opposed both of these life-saving decisions you remember he said he's xenophobic i said joe joe what does it mean joe couldn't answer he goes only in pennsylvania he goes he does it well you're right about that we pioneered incredible therapies excuse me here i am that was quick that was quick now great doctors we have great doctors and reduced the fatality rate 85 think of that and i'm working to make the antibody treatment that i received available to anybody that needs it free and it's getting very close to getting approved we will have 100 million vaccine doses before the end of the year maybe sooner than that maybe substantially before the biden lockdown he's willing to lock you down you guys aren't even open yet what the hell is going on with your state you know florida's open all this florida had a surge great governor surge went down arizona had a surge went down great governor texas had a surge went down you guys never opened the hell is going on in pennsylvania right the biden locked out we'll crush america we will crush the virus we're doing that we're crushing the virus look at our numbers compared to europe you know they always said oh europe europe look at our numbers compared and we had the biggest of of any country the biggest comeback we came back faster we went down less economically came back faster if you want depression doom and despair vote for sleepy joe biden and boredom you know the great thing i always say someday these people look at all of them back look at all those cabinets you know what i say someday they're going to get smart they're going to endorse president trump because if you had sleepy joe that nobody's going to be interested in politics anymore that's going to be the end of that they will all go out of business they should have gone out of business four years ago then i came along  if you want open schools an open economy and a safe healthy thriving country vote for me we're gonna do it we're doing it now we're doing it now we're joined today by a few of my friends i'll tell you this one guy he got it right from the beginning that's right how did you know that he's a warrior he's tough as hell he could have only been grown in pennsylvania because he's that kind of a guy he said a long time ago when i knew him it was a year before the election and i said this is four years plus one i said how do you think we're going to do he said sir you're going to win he said how the hell do you know that i just started the escalator ride wasn't too old right the famous escalator with our first lady they love our first lady we had just come down and a man named congressman mike kelly said sir you're going to win in a landfill come up here mike come on come on get out of here get up he can he said i can't i can't do it again they'll figure it out don't hurt yourself though mike don't prove everything mike just hey fellas could you help the man he said you know just give me a hand take your time mike don't don't hurt yourself can you imagine he's trying to climb over a barrier to show that you we don't want to hurt our mic he's been right from the beginning he's been with me great guy give me and also my pennsylvania campaign chair done a fantastic really a fantastic job bernie comfort bernie thank you great job great job are you okay don't touch it okay don't touch me mike we'll get in trouble with the media they'll say they touched each other oh do you ever say this if he would have done that i saved you mike i saved maybe i saved your political threat they would have had front page story of our two hands touching mike say a few words in our lifetimes we will never see a president like donald j trump again i want every one of you to make a commitment to get out and vote november 3rd and absolutely refuse to lose this is the president this is the time this is your solemn oath to america we're going to make america great again again because of donald j trump there's no flu that's going to keep this man down  he makes the energizer bunny look like a deadhead this guy never stops he never sleeps he is totally dedicated to each one of you and we should be totally dedicated to him i love this president i love his agenda and i love the fact that on november 3rd we're going to put him back in the white house mr president thank you what a great well that was not a bad job  not a bad job not him he's a great guy though he really is you're lucky to have him good job you know he shows up without the jacket i feel a little like guilty mike with that you're not cold mike i hope right don't be too brave we got to keep him around right mike thank you mike great job i appreciate it under my administration we built the greatest economy in the history of the world and now we're doing it again in my first three years we increased family income over six thousand dollars listen to this more than five times the gains in all eight years under the previous administration think of that in just a short period of time african-american unemployment hispanic american unemployment and asian american unemployment all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country think of that we lifted nearly seven million americans out of poverty a record including nearly 1.2 million african-americans out of poverty since april just since april just now we created a record never happened like this 11.4 million brand new american jobs that's never happened before and you know you were hearing it sounds terrible to me when i say it but you were hearing about 38 unemployment right 38 you're hearing 42 so it was oh thank us fake news fortune thank hey thank goodness but you know what it was two weeks ago 7.8 now 7.8 well we're at 3.4 and 3.5 i don't like to say 7.8 but when you think about it they were saying we're going to 42 you know not our fault we had this plague coming from china we're going to 40 42 38 30 7.8 and heading down rapidly that's pretty amazing when you think about it under biden it took 30 months to recover more than half of the jobs lost in a crisis we did it in less than five months we've spent the last four years reversing the damage joe biden inflicted over the last 47 years you saw what he's done you know it's amazing he's always like you know it's not him he's not being critical but he has writers they say oh let's do this that you know i have all this stuff vice president biden said he has no idea what he said but you know what i get he just you know he didn't leave long ago he was here for eight years as vice president and 47 years plus as a politician in washington think of it and he's always like why didn't he do this why why the hell didn't he do it he just you know why didn't he do it 47 years joe why didn't you do it he supported nafta tpp which would have destroyed your industry and china's entry into the world trade organization one cruel betrayal after another it's true i mean what he's done for decades our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders now we're doing love orders do you like that better but now we're finally protecting our nation rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs our factories and our troops our beautiful beloved troops we're bringing them all back home it's time 19 years  to save our auto industry i withdrew from the last administration's trans-pacific partnership pennsylvania gained michigan auto factories auto plants being built all over michigan ohio there wasn't a plant built in 42 years now they're being built all over the place in japan i told the prime minister you have to give us plants you got to get you can't just keep sending us cars you got to make them over here and they started and you're a big beneficiary of it to defend our steel that aluminum workers i imposed very historic tariffs on dumped steel right and that happened and you are still all of your places started doing great i ended the nafta nightmare and signed the brand new usmca just kicked in you know how i know it's good because the other two countries aren't so happy that's good they took advantage of us for a long time i took the toughest ever action to confront china's rampant theft of american jobs nobody has ever done and you know what we were nobody's having anything like this to china we would take it we're taking in billions right now we're taking in billions billions and billions of dollars it affects you a little bit we gave 28 billion dollars to our farmers because they were targeted by china and that was just a small fraction of what i took in under my leadership we achieved the most secure border southern border in u.s history so we're building 10 miles you know the wall is going to be completed very soon and we had radical opposition to the wall radical opposition will be at 500 miles very soon and will be completed with the wall and by the way mexico you know they keep saying mexico is paying for the wall they understand that they're paying for the wall mexico's paying for it and it's very high just like i said it would be and it actually goes down very deep you know why two reasons actually number one to hold it up number two to stop the tunnels my opponent's immigration plan is the most extreme proposal ever put forward by a presidential candidate biden would eliminate u.s borders how about that do you like that idea okay just think of it from a prank how the hell do you have a country if you don't have borders he would eliminate and you know that signed in the manifesto with bernie sanders crazy bernie bernie's one of the i'll tell you what he's one of the greatest losers and and i mean that in a very nice way twice they took it away from him right hillary took it away and then elizabeth pocahontas warren took it away because she stayed in on super tuesday she took enough votes away so he didn't want any states and then he goes back to the senate like nothing happened this guy he's i think he should be given you know in school when i was a young guy in school sportsmanship of the year i never happened to receive that i got other awards i never got the best sportsmanship award but bernie sanders should be given sportsman of the year sportsmanship i guess right no no it's amazing this happened to him twice is bernie running again in four more years bernie are you running again crazy burning but no but they signed them you know they didn't sign i guess they have this deal the manifesto they agreed biden would eliminate and she's more liberal than him you know she's more liberal and there's nobody that treated biden worse than kamala that's why i said why would he ever pick her there's nobody that treated him worse biden would eliminate u.s borders by implementing nationwide catch and release which i ended if it's okay with you you know what i did you catch them what do you do they're murderers they're rapists you catch them and then you have to release them this is called catch this is a serious this was a democrat program headed up by crying chuck schumer he's the one you catch them cry and chop he only cries when it's i've known him a long time the only time he cries is when it's necessary cry no no you catch them and you release them into the country and you say in four and a half years please come back for a trial nobody comes back a couple of really stupid ones come back other than making every community into a sanctuary city and suspending all removals of illegal aliens they want to suspend in this manifesto no more moving out illegal aliens even if they're really bad including no violent criminals you catch ms-13 can't move them out thank you very much we're living with them this is what this is what these people want this is the most important election in the history of our country look you know we can play games and we can be nice and we can have a good time you think i need to be standing out here in 50 degree weather looking at mike in a shirt and he's and he feels better about it than i do right mike now this is this is the most important election in the history of our country we cannot allow we cannot allow this to happen we're going to win we're going to win so big i think we're going to win you know the lines the lines are record-setting the lines are big the lines are big there's a lot of a lot of trump trump you know people that a lot of people great americans they never liked who they were voting for they didn't vote they just didn't vote and they're online right now there are a lot of people out there and it's looking good it's early but it's looking good get out and vote most important election mike we've ever had i really believe it and you know what four or five months ago when we started this whole thing because you know before the plague came in i had it made i wasn't coming to erie i mean i have to be honest there's no way i was coming i didn't have to i would have called you and said hey erie you know if you have a chance get out but we had this thing won we were so far up we had the greatest economy ever greatest jobs greatest everything and then we got hit with the plague and i had to go back to work hello erie may i please have your vote right i love hearing no hey we had a big deal in erie we had a big deal in the area right this was not supposed to be a trump thing a lot of democrats but the democrats that love trump because i love them and you know what you're workers you're like we work we work we work but that was a pretty big upset wasn't it huh big big upset but if biden wins your borders are gone which means your health care is gone the middle class is gone your safety is gone your country is gone that's what's gonna happen and don't think it can't happen take a look at venezuela this could be same ideology as what they're talking about this could be a venezuela but much much much bigger it can happen it could happen you see these people you see what they're saying you see portland where they have anarchists through the streets and it's all democrat run areas no republican areas it's all democrat run areas that's where you have with portland it's anarchists but look at the various look at what's happened to our beautiful new york since i've been gone think of it you know what it's like three and a half years if you think of it i think what i can say is if i would have stayed in new york that wouldn't have happened it's very intel but look at what's happened to new york in a few years what's happened to new york what's happened to chicago look at what's going on in baltimore and just remember this with obama biden they had nothing but problems look at baltimore remember how bad that was ferguson look at st louis look at oakland look at all the problems you know they act like oh it was so it was horrible and you know i say it all the time if they were any good i wouldn't have run and if they were any good if i did run i couldn't have won right but they were no good they did a rotten job they did a lousy job and joe 
 today  it's uh to be in lumberton and i'll tell you we have a lot of friends here they said please stop by we said let's do a quickie we're on our way to wisconsin and ohio we have some rallies but we wanted to stop i have a lot of friends in this group so thank you very much and ten days from now can you believe it ten days ten days it seemed like it would never happen right four years ten days we're going to win the state of north carolina and we're going to win four more years in the white house at the debate this week the american people saw a contrast between a 47-year career politician who seen better days had a used public office and really has used public office to enrich himself you've seen that right and a businessman who entered public service believe me with me it's only a and i did it gladly because nobody has ever done what we've done in the last four years if you look at it nobody has been able to do it for the last half a century joe biden's been outsourcing your jobs opening your borders and sacrificing american blood and treasure and endless and ridiculous foreign wars i fight for the middle class and biden and his cronies serve only one class they serve the donor class believe it or not now in all fairness the donor class i would be the greatest in history all i have to do is call them send 10 million once you do that you can no longer do what's right for you and it's just one of those little things in 2016 north carolina voted to fire this depraved political establishment and you elected an outsider as your president happened to be me and we're putting american i love the sound of that drum that sounds that's why i'm here these people that's why i'm here that's why i'm here for these people right  you didn't think i'd come did you i didn't think because they haven't been treated well for a long time right you haven't been treated well but now you're being treated well  you work hard you raise your families you follow your laws you support your church you serve your community and you give your love and your loyalty to your country but now you finally have a government and a president that is loyal to you joe biden's allegiance is due his donors and my allegiances to the people of this country that's it that's it in every meeting and every situation in dealing with every foreign leader i am your voice and together we are the voice of a great country we are the voice of the united states of america and we are respected again as a country not like in the past where everybody took advantage of us with a voice for every citizen who has been neglected abandoned ignored and forgotten and maybe that's another reason i'm here because this is a group that's been forgotten on november 3rd we will ensure the forgotten men and women of our country are never forgotten again and i said that four years ago i said that four years ago and they said where are all these people coming from and by the way just a little secret you gotta see all the people that are voting they haven't figured it out yet the fact is check out what's going on in florida check out the numbers i'm not talking about the polls you know although we have some good polls too but the hottest ones is i'm gonna be a lobster you mind if i cut this one at about one third because i'm gonna be one hell of a sunburned person does anybody have some sun protection for your president this is beautiful oh man i said to my kids stay out of the sun always use sunblock hey always use sunblock and here i am that's really brilliant with your vote we will continue to bring back your jobs lower drug prices cut your taxes continue to cut regulations even more important than the taxes you know you got the biggest tax cut in the history of our country i got it for you you also got the biggest regulation cut in history probably the reason we're so strong with coming back stronger than anybody that they're going crazy this is not a b anymore it's a super view when you see the numbers that are coming out you support our police protect our second amendment defend our borders and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase made in the usa made in the usa been a long time since you've heard that you know when i was growing up you'd have a car made in the usa made in america and you were very proud of it other countries used to take a dollar bill and they'd put it on the window of their car just a dollar bill because they were proud of it now we're proud of it again now we're proud of it right it's true i have a friend from a country in europe that used to take a dollar bill everybody took a dollar bill and they put it in there because i remember when i first started campaigning the department as soon as they wouldn't use the word merry christmas those words merry christmas they'd say happy new year everything would be in red and snow and all this stuff but then say happy new year and i said they will soon start saying merry christmas merry christmas again we will deliver record prosperity epic job growth  oh thank you for everybody thank you very much people in cars i don't get it very cars there are so few cars i've never seen an audience like this and he's going he's going oh thank you all those people out there just like a few cars and the cars weren't in a little circle they were too close together i think they weren't socially distanced but there were so few of them it did not know but he's going like this and then i'll tell  you actually i didn't think he had that kind of to do that to be honest i was surprised he did that actually but they showed it was a tiny tiny little crowd you heard a couple of horns  it's the weirdest thing you make a speech i like the drum behind  those women they follow me all over the place look at them back there look at them see those women they're very wealthy women from north carolina and i saw them two rallies ago this isn't a rally this is a get together with friends of mine this one  they live in a very wealthy area i suspect but there are like ten of them and they follow and i said how many is it so far they said 61. i said you mean you've gone to 61 rallies and then the last time we saw them two nights ago they were with their husbands it can't be that easy to be married to them if they've got to follow 61. so i gave their husbands tremendous we're their husbands two of the husbands are right there two of them we have a good time right we have a good time you have great wives you have great women they're great women thank you very much we have a lot of people that follow we have somebody say this with somebody he comes in a brick suit did you ever see this guy  once it was complete once i knew the wall then they oh ah oh listen but mexico's not paying for it no they are paying for it's nothing totally they don't know what the hell to do just one of those things they don't know what to do anyway but uh it's a great honor to have you all great friends some great friends right here we appreciate it this election is a choice between a trump super recovery and a biden depression okay oh by the way are you going to ohio tonight ohio and wisconsin ohio you should hop a plane come on maybe we'll take them on air force one tonight husbands we'll leave you behind it can definitely carry them that's true one thing about air force one there's always plenty of room that plane is the largest pledge probably got more television sets than air force one than at any department store in the country  it's gonna be a cold dark winter very inspiring guy very it's very inspiring i even said whoa whoa now we have spirit in our country you know we come back we're rounding the turn we're doing great our numbers are incredible and despite the fact that they're keeping certain states north carolina get your governor to open up your state please this guy should be defeated i think they're going to be voting for dan you're lieutenant i think you're going to be running are you going to get your governor open your state got to get them this is crazy what's going on here and you know what they're doing they're keeping it open until the election because they think that you know there'll be less business i'll report worse numbers but the numbers are so good the uh the fed atlanta fed i guess i think atlanta said they think in gdp 35 now who knows right now i take 15 right now nobody's ever heard of 35 they predicted just two days ago at 35 gdp nobody's ever heard of that before i think the record is seven or eight percent right so we'll be at not put joe 35 charge because you will come crashing down because he wants to raise your taxes massively how about the other night of the debate he was doing okay he was doing okay and then the last question i said you mean you'd get rid of oil you should catch like weed ourselves i said we just want texas we just want pennsylvania we just want a lot of different places and then they spent the next two days trying to convince you that he didn't really mean that no joe's not with you joe is not what you need i know i know what you need i know  even as an example we got off that crazy iran deal right the iran nuclear deal where obama gave 150 billion dollars for the privilege we're making deals in the middle east and signing up like hot cakes right no blood in the sand no nothing no wars we just signed yesterday sudan so we have bahrain we have united arab emirates led by a great leader a great warrior and we have many others right in the back can you imagine if somebody else had to take over the negotiations of the middle east that would be the end of it you could say bye bye middle east peace to spend a thousand times more money and they wouldn't get it done we're spending  19 years in afghanistan we served as policemen you know we're like policemen in afghanistan we could win that thing so easy but we're like policemen and it's enough 19 years would you say 19 years is enough we bring them home right then we bring them home we're bringing our chips back home i'm taking a lot of heat i'm taking a lot of heat from the military-industrial complexity of that the military-industrial complex isn't like that i'm bringing it back home but if it's okay we're bringing them back home we're in so many countries we're in countries that you've never heard of and they don't even appreciate it on top of it they don't even appreciate it now we're bringing her back up if joe biden and his democrat socialists gain power they will delay the vaccine which is happening i mean we got them they're coming real soon in fact the war for politics i wouldn't be surprised if it would have been here we have many great companies really great advisor all right there supposedly great stuff they're doing that final test and it's coming  please do not under  because they're tired of all of this stuff they're tired of such negative  and now they say i'm immune now it used to be it used to be that if you had it you were immune for life right for life with me they say i'm immune for four months in other words once i got it the immunity went down from life to four months i don't know they don't know either who the hell knows all i know is that for a little while for at least four months i can run in there and kiss every one of you men and women i'll kiss every one of them i'll kiss them no no it's uh you know you get over then you're immune and you know for whatever period of time no it's true that didn't you hurt your life you're immune right as soon as i got it i said i was immune they said only for four months and in many ways it's good and in many ways it's foolish okay in many ways it's very foolish because every time you test like for instance baron trump did your parents he's a rather tall young man he's tall and he's a good kid and he's strong but he had it they said sir madam i'm sorry to inform you your son has tested positive parent i said oh no 15 seconds later sir your son no longer has it no it's true i said how's it oh they have a very strong immune system 99.9 something right 99.9 go back to school north carolina go back to school aaron trump a legend it's a legend he got rid of it so fast but the kids get rid of them immune systems the mortality rate is down 85 because of the therapeutics at all they learn i mean they know what to do in other words by doing all of this testing we're the best in the world the most i get calls all the time from leaders your testing is the best in the world i said you test no i said i said to one gentleman who's very tough very tough man runs a tough country i said do you test yes when somebody comes into the hospital and throws up all over the floor we test but we never test other than that i said so do you have cases no we show very few cases and what it does is it gives the fake news media something to talk about so they say cases are up in the united states that's because we test so india has 1.5 billion people and they do testing they test a tiny fraction of the number of people that we test so the good is that we know where it is etcetera and we have to protect our seniors and that's really the most important thing but when you see all the stuff watch they'll go home cases are up cases are up and i saw it today but that's because does that make sense now if we cut it in half you know we're not allowed to say that we're not allowed spending billions of dollars on testing but if we tested half cases would be half and they have a headline cases drop magnificently but they want us to test test us and part of the reason is that we're dealing with some very bad people we're dealing with some good words too by the way some good journalists but we have a lot of very bad people you saw that recently where they're trying to protect sleepy joe and his family from total corruption i mean this is totally corrupt so they refuse to give the new york post my hometown paper right the new york post created the fourth largest paper in the country the oldest paper by far founded by alexander hamilton if i remember the headline correctly alexander hamilton new york post is really doing the thing and they banned the new york post from social media can you believe it the new york post cannot be posted but you know what they're doing very well they're very proud of the job they're doing and the country is very proud of the new york post but others like the new york times won't cover it they won't cover this massive corruption this second place where a son follows a father into a foreign country and he's like a human vacuum cleaner the son had no job no nothing unfortunately was forced out of the military and all of a sudden he's making millions of dollars a year he goes to work for 183 000 a month on the board of an energy company that has a very questionable reputation 183 and he's on the board 183 000 a month his father is in charge of ukraine right his father is in charge of free obama i was surprised he gave him this much responsibility because i wouldn't his father is a judge of russia ukraine and china  russia ukraine and china right is that right you don't mind if i go off isn't this more interesting they put him in charge see he can't do that he can't go off teleprompter if he doesn't he can't even go on teleprompter okay so russia the mayor of moscow's wife who's a very wealthy man she's a very wealthy woman retired give him three and a half million dollars i wonder why he must be for his great knowledge of markets but they gave him three and a half so when i asked the debate about it chris wallace said no you can't ask him that question i said why not chris why not by the way kristin walker did a very good job much better than chris wallace and after his wallet how did trump do did you see 91 it was 91 for trump  when they come in my favor i repeat them all the time i say they're great but they're not in my favor i don't i don't discuss that but they're they are wrong they are so wrong they're the worst polls are the foxholes they're the worst you know if you see that politician but same thing i had four years ago nine states guaranteed loss i go into the election i'm saying man this is gonna be embarrassing tonight darling this is gonna be a very embarrassing evening i'm not used to losing out of nine i'm down all nine i'm gonna lose all nine at the end of the evening i won all nine all right i was nine for now i was nine for nine and i said i think he's closer a little bit and they say you know we love our president or before president we really like donald trump a lot he could do a great job but you know he can't win the polls are saying he can't win these schools are much better than four years ago by the way in fact now they're getting awfully close now you know because they can't be embarrassed the second time so you're getting horrible horrible defeat of a person that could have been a great president and they come home and what happens is a lot millions of people do that except for one problem four years ago nobody did it they wouldn't vote and said they said let's go and vote instead of going to see a movie the movies are no good anyway okay they don't make them like they used to make them i can tell you that we like those old movies much better right but but just and so they go out and they vote and all of a sudden remember hillary said the deplorables whoever thought mcgregor hillary i watched the i used i watched that expression she called people deplorables right and i didn't do you remember the other words she used two that's right irredeemable and i said that's a horrible word irredeemable but it wasn't irredeemable to me irredeemable is worse than a demoral right which is worse i think you're redeemable i said she just called half of the people in the nation irredeemable and admirable i watched it live was that the most exciting speech but i said oh that's a very nasty thing to say but i figured nothing the next day everybody i'm a deplorable the t-shirt was the number one it was it was a disaster whoever wrote that line for her he should be out of politics forever i mean it was a disaster so these are just little sidelights that i give you while i'm baking in the sun my people are genius you know i have a very powerful head of hair if they would have turned me this way it would have been hitting me in the hair and it wouldn't have hurt in fact it would have made me even more blonde i'm fighting for every american of every background race color and creed including native americans i am here native american that's why we're the last here promised to bring hope and change to indian country but they truly abandoned you the moment they got your vote and they went to washington that's what they do by the way african-american for three and a half years they treat them terribly and then six months before the election they come and they they say they give you everything they get the vote and then they give them nothing and now they're shocked because we're doing great with african americans we're doing great with hispanic america it's gone on for a hundred years it's gone on for 100 years give me a vote give me a vote and then after the election's over it's like i don't remember you uh let's talk in three and a half years from now right under this administration you will never be abandoned i will always stand proudly with our incredible native american communities  last week i put forward a vision for indian country grounded in respecting tribal sovereignty promoting safe communities and building a thriving economy delivering better health care and protecting native american cultures languages and history over the last four years i created nationwide task force the crisis of missing and murdered native americans especially women and children which is a tremendous problem you know i signed into law something about three months ago and a lot of it having to do in arizona and new mexico different places in the country but it's a serious problem what's uh what happens with murder of women and children in indian country is a terrible thing so we're we're working on it very hard and for the first time we have it funded well it's well funded and uh we're looking for these monsters we're looking for these monsters to do and we're looking for people that are missing it's a tremendous tremendous problem we provided nearly 450 million dollars to support law enforcement and fight the opioid epidemic and we've made really good progress and to defeat the virus we made the largest investment in indian country in our history so we are working very hard here's the indian country has been hit very hard by the china plague that's where it comes from they say please don't mention china that's where it comes from they call it corona it sounds like a beautiful seaside island in italy no it's not corona it's called the china plague to deliver jobs and opportunity we created more than 360 opportunity zones in native american communities tim scott senator tim scott did that with me i'm also supporting school choice for native americans and every parent all across the world  with us today are members of the incredible lumbee chat which has been wrongly denied federal recognition for more than a century  obama promised to end this injustice a long time ago and many times and they broke their word every single time just all talk i told them the other night joe you've been here for 47 years but more importantly you were here for three and a half years ago why didn't you do it all this different stuff we should have done this we should have done that we should have closed earlier of course it was one of the problems because two and a half months later how about his line that we should have closed i banned people from china where it was heavily infected from coming into our country biden was totally against that he called me xenophobic and now he goes out and says we should have done it sooner well he didn't want to do it at all and then two and a half months later he realized he was doing the same thing with presidency nancy pelosi crazy she's crazy as a bedbug nancy pelosi in between sids without masks and beauty balls hey how about that beauty polaroid she was a trump fan in san francisco she was a big trump fan and uh she didn't like what was happening she didn't like seeing nancy pelosi give me something give me something i want something as fast as you could do it no that wasn't good she's good she looks good when i'm reelected i will proudly sign the lumbee recognition act it should have been signed a long time ago  and the people of north carolina want that the people of north carolina want that so that's good that's great all of your people are here and it's great it's a great thing the people of north carolina want to see that happen your congressman but north carolina wants to see it happen also with us today is sonny perdue our great secretary of agriculture i don't recognize you with a big mask exciting i'm very impressed look at that wow you've come a long way sonny and he's a great secretary we've given him away let's see give it away 28 billion from china directly to our farmers and ranchers right i said sonny let me ask you he's great secretary of he knows more about agriculture you know i interviewed nine people they were all central testing they had one problem they knew nothing about agriculture one of them i said have you ever been to a farm no sir i said do you know what a horse pictures is pictures but i said you've never been and this was your standard but they would have looked perfect i mean it would have been perfect but they knew nothing but i was all set to pick one of them because we're into the world of politics right and then somebody comes in and i said you know i don't want to receive in georgia would have been there as long as he wanted to be but it was eight years and i said look i don't want to hire i don't want to look at this guy he's like i don't want to look he's not perfect he doesn't set them all meaning he looks so much like me okay i don't want that and he comes in and within 45 minutes i knew everything about farming i knew everything about agriculture i learned more in 45 minutes than i learned in 45 years of studying it this guy is such a pro and i said how much i said sunny sunny perdue the great sunny i said let me let me ask you china is targeting are farmers and ranchers how much 12 billion dollars from two years ago right sonny sixteen billion dollars this year meaning last year is it good we're gonna tariff them all of the goods coming in and we gave the farmers 12 billion and 16 million and the farmers love trump i mean they left right how am i doing in iowa by the way sonny am i doing okay can you imagine if i lost in iowa i you can't lose the entire midwest in this case i won the entire midwest remember when you first came over you came over you said sir and he shows me a map of the country the entire middle of that map was red red meaning republican right dollars to our great farmers that's why our farmers are all good and two weeks ago china but it's not the same right i thought it was so great i decided but i don't feel the same way the ink was drying on the tray deal when we got hit by the plague so it's different does that make sense the largest order of soybeans in the history of our country and the largest order of beef in the history of our country and i appreciate that order but our farmer said something to me that i can't we hadn't been two years ago and they were getting hit by china and a lot of other factors and i said you know what i'll do i'm going to give you a subsidy they said sir first time that ever happened we don't want a subsidy we don't want a subsidy we just want a level playing field and they were upset by the word subsidy remember everyone else comes in okay you can call it anything we want money we want money everybody foreign nations and now we got it perfectly we have the usmca instead of that horrible nafta deal everyone said impossible and plenty of other things we won't go into it but our farmers are treated well but china gave 28 billion with a big billion billion dollars that we divided among all of these great farmers and we have a lot of happy people out there and we're in that position where we made a great deal but the bad part is what happened after the deal was made we have some representatives here who have been incredible for native americans for this particular area by the way for you more than anybody else i have to say congressman dan bishop  dan bishop and congressman richard hudson these are two great congressmen thank you dan thank you richard and they did it they were the ones that called it wasn't anybody else wasn't nancy nancy was not in favor it wasn't anybody else it was these two guys more than anybody else and some help from some warriors right some real warriors speaker of north carolina house great gentleman tim moore young young timo good job  and a candidate for superintendent catherine truett catherine great  how are we doing here catherine are we doing good we're gonna win we're gonna win north carolina  i've been back here so much i might as well just call it my own setup sleepy joe doesn't make it too often he to be president you need strength you need energy you need strength and energy stay gop chair somebody's done a phenomenal job of course if we don't win the state he'll be fired so fast michael wadley michael very much we're looking good michael huh and a chance for the comings of the unc pembroke it's uh chancellor has done a fantastic job chancellor there's a chance for a stand-up chancellor great job unc that's great good good area pembroke thanks also to susan tillis oh he's moving along he's moving along he's going up like a rocket ship we won't tell you the reason why he should do it on his own merit but susan will take whatever it takes right right this other guy he talked about honor honor it's gonna be honorable not one but two no good no good but tom jealous is a great guy he's really been we've gotten to know each other really over the last year and a half more than anything else but i got to tell you he's great and i think he's going to do terrifically and i know he's out i said don't come here we've got you covered here we got him covered right  go out and campaign but uh i appreciate you being here susan say hello i think he's gonna i think he's making it big i think he's making it big for years joe biden fought to cut your social security and medicare you know that right he tries to deny it a fact which joe in a debate with crazy bernie sanders tried to get out of so today i want to show you i brought it along you know we're giving you an a version this is an a version we're giving you the big rally version as opposed to a little get together with indian nation but we're giving you the big deal so i want to show you joe biden on social security you can't get social security right if you're a politician watch this the video please let me ask you a question joe yeah you're right here with me yeah have you been on the floor of the senate you were in the center for a few years time and time again talking about the necessity with pride about cutting social security cutting medicare cutting veterans progress no you've never said that no when i argued that we should freeze federal spending i spent social security as well i'm in medicare and medicaid i'm not a metropolitan i'm at every single solitary thing in the government look here  american i am saying that you have been on the floor of the senate time and time again talking about the need to cut social security medicare and veterans programs whoa everything was on the table all right you're right you just said it including in your judgment cuts the social security in order to get the kinds of changes we need on other things but you can't deny  i've seen people so so we went back and we found the clip and the speech writers turned out to be right i couldn't believe it so we put it up on occasion and we uh we're putting it up for you so remember that and you'll cut your social security i will always protect your medicare and your social security for 47 years joe biden supported every wretched betrayal of the american worker suddenly this guy is crazy he's either crazy or he's the worst liar i actually think that's the third category i think he doesn't remember no i think he doesn't remember what he said three weeks ago no he says for one year there'll be enough racket then he goes to president and then he argues with me so i never said that i said i'll put it up and we put it up i think my people put it up about 20 minutes before the debate ended but the greatest part of the debate was the end right and then was so beautiful he's going to wean himself off i said texas are you listening pennsylvania ohio are you listening no no it's defrauded the whole deal with him is a fraud he was a cheerleader for nafta the worst trade deal in history and china's entry into the world trade organization which made china into a powerful force obliterating your industries and laying waste to your towns your cities your states i ended joe biden's nafta nightmare and replaced it with that brand new beautiful usmca mexico canada my leadership we achieve the most secure border in u.s history and we're finishing the wall 400 miles plus already built  400 miles or 400 miles that's a lot we'll be finished very shortly and that's exactly what they wanted this is i said to the border patrol give me your best give me this give i figured it would be a nice concrete plank boom boom boom that was my business i was really good at that business so i looked i saw the concrete plank boom and it turned out they don't want that they want steel and concrete and they want vision and they want all sorts of things  and it's got hookups to every form of commute of computer known to man right remember when they said the wall the wall is a wall it's obsolete it said no also absolutely two things right walls and wheels will never be absolutely a computer a new laptop like for instance the laptop from hell you know his laptop we got the laptop from hell joe biden is about to open borders he wants to open your borde
from the lakes of minnesota to the hills of tennessee across the plains of texas  where there's pride in every american heart and it's time we stand and say  that i'm proud to be an american where it is  well thank you very much thank you thank you  thank you very much and hello circleville circleville and it's great to be back in ohio to celebrate the return of big ten football with a big victory today for the buckeyes 52-17 not bad not bad you remember how this all happened sleepy joe said president trump didn't want to have football i said what the hell is he talking about sleepy joe so i said what's the problem with football they said big ten football is shut down i said well he said i did it yeah he blamed me i said i had nothing to do with it so then i said i got an idea i'm going to get it open if it's shut down right that's what happened i think even took an ad president trump shut down football i didn't think about it i must tell you i'm thinking about china and i'm thinking about a lot of other things so i i said uh you know what we'll do we'll teach sleepy joe in that group that don't have what it takes we'll teach him how to do it and i worked hard to bring back big ten and i got together with your commissioner you did a good job and we got it back and today you won your football game and we're very happy about it because i know that life in ohio is not complete without the glory of ohio state football and other football right i'm glad you won the game i wouldn't have wanted to come can you imagine if you lost the game and you know there's a lot of people in here but did you see outside you're very lucky to be here say thank you very much for this wonderful journey president no you have to see you have to see there are tens of thousands of people in the streets out here trying to get in i think the next time the next time we'll get a larger field thank you very much thank you very much yeah that's it that's really nice thank you thank you very much i appreciate it and by the way we got pac 12 back i don't you don't care about pac-12 but we got packed with we said we might as well do out there too right and we did a doubleheader ten days from now we're going to win this great state and we are going to win four more years in the white house remember last time about the state remember they said for a year i had to hear it you cannot win unless you win the great state of ohio i heard it so many times that was these fake people look at all of them over the camera look at all those cameras look at all those lights that are on all those lights that are on but you remember that they would drum it for a year i heard you cannot win unless you win ohio and then i got a poll and i said we're doing pretty well in ohio by the way right and then we won remember they said it's going to be close it's going to be hard to win going to be very very hard and trump if he doesn't win ohio he's out and then we not only won ohio we won ohio by more than eight points eight points and they said and they said you know the story when it uh when it closes i mean they do a fast little count if you're winning big they said the polls in ohio have closed donald trump has won the state of ohio it's like immediate it was like in the same sentence the polls have closed trump is one you know normally it would take like hours and whatever if it's close no we won big and i hear we're winning big now and i'm hearing they gave up with the state already and you know they're going to give up on florida very soon because we're winning big in florida we're winning big in north carolina you don't want sleepy joe to be your president you know he draws flies he's not drawing anybody and obama was there they called in obama they said sir sir this is a few days ago sir i bet just what president obama is going to campaign for sleepy joe and i said is that good news or bad news that's true and he said well he's going to campaign so i guess it started yesterday the day before right they had 42 people show 42 we have thousands tens of thousands and outside is five times what this no there's something going on this happened last time four years ago this time more at this time more it happened last time there was an enthusiasm four years ago the likes of which the fake news has never seen before right and i'll have to tell you and maybe i'll be wrong but at least to this point the enthusiasm is much more because you know what we've all done together we've done a lot we've done it we've done a lot it's much more it's much more we got all those tax cuts we got all the regulation cuts we got the steel guys back we put tariffs on all the crap that they were dumping from china 25 they were dumping the steel and we said you can't do that and lots of other things we've done a lot but it's far greater today look at this field i mean as far as i can see it's far greater today than it was four years ago and this is the most important election this is the most important election of your lifetimes i see a lot of young people up here so big deal like what 12 years no big deal right it's really the most it could be the most important election we've ever had i really believe that too and i didn't think i'd be saying it because our last win was such a big win we've done so much nobody's done more than what we've done they don't even question it you know when i say it because they like to always oh he did this he said that he said you know they don't even question we have done more in the first three and a half years than any administration has done when you look at everything and it's an honor but this is the most important election i didn't think i would say it because i i viewed the last uh what we did four years ago can you believe four years ago almost can you imagine that the time flies i'll never forget the first night in the white house i said it's like a surreal experience i have abraham lincoln's bedroom here i was talking to the first lady they said do you believe this took a little while it takes a while to get used to it and then you know what you have to do you have to get down to work you get down to work and that's what we did at the debate this week did anybody see the debate maybe  a couple people they had a lot that was like a super bowl deal i guess uh with the ratings that's okay that we had one called 91 to nine it was 91 with with us having the 91 okay yeah i kept saying hey joe joe you want to do all this stuff why didn't you do it you were there three and a half years ago do it why didn't you do it joe you didn't do much joe then i said i wouldn't have run joe i wouldn't have run if you did a good job if you two did a good job i wouldn't have run i didn't need this joe i had a very good life joe i didn't need this joe i had a good life i had a very nice life joe but i wouldn't have run you did a good job i wouldn't have run and if i did i wouldn't have won because you would have done a good job there would have been no reason the fact is you didn't do a good job joe you let us down joe and he had no idea what i was talking about here no clue but after debate this week the american people saw the contrast between a 47-year career politician who used his public office to enrich himself you know that i mean his son was like his son was like a human vacuum cleaner just follow his let's go to china this week dad okay son hello take out a billion and a half you get all the fees in a billion and a half how about going to ukraine now they'll pay me 183 000 a month for my for my great great services on energy what do you know about energy son i didn't know i don't know anything dead but i'll learn i'm willing to learn for the last half century joe biden has been outsourcing your jobs opening your borders and sacrificing american blood and treasure in these endless ridiculous foreign wars countries you've never even heard of for the most part i fight for the middle class i fight for everyone i fight for this country  and biden doesn't know who he's fighting for now you have to say you know this is serious stuff it is it is serious stuff but is there any place better to be than a trump rally mean seriously right i mean it's serious but we have fun and you know the best way to succeed you got to love what you're doing and we all love it and we love our country we love our country in 2016 ohio voted to fire this depraved political establishment and you elected an outsider as your president who is finally putting america first that's what i'm doing you work hard you raise your families you follow our laws you support your church that you're not even allowed to go to how about that you can't go to your church but you can have a riot down fifth avenue isn't that you serve your community and you give your love and loyalty to our great country now you finally have a president that is loyal to you totally honestly believe me there are easier ways to spend my life this was nobody told me the swamp was going to be that deep and that vicious they even impeached me over a perfect phone call hello how you doing congratulations congratulations on your win mr president of ukraine we're going to impeach him these people are crazy these people oh now they're doing it again you know the laptop from hell they found the laptop from this is a laptop that they don't want to see how the hell this laptop got freed up it's amazing the way god works the laptop right and now it comes it's adam shifty schiff yesterday i saw for the first time watermelon he's shaped like a watermelon adam schiff dishonest guy totally dishonest guy made up my conversation remember the halls of congress said quid pro quo eight times i didn't say it at all isn't it lucky i had a transcriber isn't it lucky otherwise it would be my word against shifty shift but think of it think of it so adam schiff he's out there and he's talking about what's taken place and here it is the laptop from hell he said it's russia russia here we go again russia russia russia i think russia must look at us they say these people are stone cold crazy this is this is russian disinformation i'll tell you what we got to get back to business this is crazy what's going on this is crazy russia i heard it yesterday they got him caught i think didn't he say that the baby said well this was russia disinformation this is a disaster for them but let's see what happens but see but we have learned a lot we've learned how corrupt the media is i already knew they were corrupt but but they don't want to write anything about it so listen so we caught them cold just like we caught them spying on my campaign we caught them doing horrible treasonous things these were treasonous things let's see what happens should have gone much faster i have to be honest with you but we caught him spying in our campaign the whole group and by the way obama and biden they knew everything about it they knew everything about it we caught him with that too it's much better if i say no no no please no it's terrible it's a terrible thing now they're trying to do it again where they get caught and they're trying to say it with russia they never say china you know why a lot of money comes out of china into their pockets and did you ever notice china has not been very good we did a great trade deal unbelievable uh two weeks ago the largest order of corn the largest order of soybeans the largest yeah yeah except except i feel different normally i would have been here talking about the great trade but you know what the ink on the trade deal wasn't dry and then all of a sudden the plague came in from china that's more important than trade deals that's more important so it's no good with your vote we will continue to bring back your jobs lower drug prices at a level that nobody's ever lowered them before and you last year for the first time ever drug prices went down but we're doing what's called the favorite nations laws the drug companies are not happy with me this is not supposed to have happened favored nations means you'll pay the lowest price anywhere in the world you match its favorite nations and nobody's exercised it because nobody thought of it probably but if they did think of it they couldn't have done it because the drug companies are so powerful they are taking you see all the ads against me it's not so much sleepy joe it's the drug companies because i've exercised a favored nation so if germany or another country pays 10 cents for a pill the exact pill and we pay two and a half dollars and you're talking about stuff like that these are the kind of differences we pay for all research and development everything so if germany's at 10 or somebody and we're at much higher we now pay 10. it's very simple it's called favorite nations we pay the lowest in the world your prices could come down 50 60 70 80 they'll come down a lot and uh i have never had more ads spent because they have unlimited money so big pharma they call it right so number one power in washington and i've just learned they're the number one power and i knew this was going to happen i said i don't care i'm put here to do a job i'm put here to do a job they have the middlemen you know they have the drug pricing is very complicated it's very complicated stuff they have it set so that it's almost impossible to disengage it and they have middlemen you know the middlemen nobody ever heard they never say middle women i've never heard middle women i want to be nice i want to say middle women but i've never heard the term having to do with drug prices but they have the middlemen gets millions gets more than the drug companies at least the drug companies make the drugs right these people don't do anything they're very rich i probably know some of them i would be not surprised if hunter biden was also a middleman he probably got on top of everything else takes in millions and millions now we find out that hunter biden is a middlemen but these are rich people and they get all this money for nothing so i worked a deal where canada which buys their drugs for exactly 50 i'm going to let our governors your governor governor florida other governors buy buy their drugs directly from canada nobody's ever done same drug exactly the same same lab same company same everything and they're going to buy it for 50 percent less and then by that time the favored nations will kick in and you'll get it for even less so this has never happened before but it's happening we will support our great police protect your second amendment defend your borders and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful isn't it a beautiful phrase get in here for a long time until trump came along made in the usa made in the usa you didn't hear it for a long time right in a long time you know when i was young that you said made in america made you every car made in them now you don't see it anymore we're going to see it remember i was saying today i was in north carolina speaking to a great crowd and i said remember i when i first started i said we're going to say merry christmas again remember and you remember all the department stores many of them are wiped out because of the internet but these are minor details right but all the department stores they'd say happy new year and everything but christmas they don't want to say christmas i said we're going to say christmas again and you know what they're all saying christmas again they're saying merry christmas  they're all saying merry christmas again gonna be there pretty soon and we have a big day you better get out november 3rd big big big who's voted already who's voting i just voted i just voted get out and vote no this is the biggest election that i really believe maybe we've ever had because the radical left has gone crazy and you know what when we win this one i think they're going to rest i really do i think they're going to say okay that's enough that's enough she goes no they won't you're probably right but you know what brings it together success and we're doing a super v we're going up you see housing starts and the numbers the automobile starts nobody's ever seen anything like it the numbers for some things are better than they were pre this plague that came in the pandemic i mean it's amazing actually amazing we have a super v you're going to see a number that's going to be announced just prior to the election gdp it was just estimated by the fed to be 35 i think the highest we've ever had was like seven now who knows if they're right maybe they're i'll take 25 right now okay problem is i mentioned 35 so if it's 25 you know what they'll do it was a terrible terrible upset for the president whatever if it was 15 i'd be happy they just estimated they think it might be 35 that's unheard of we're coming back because we built you know why though because we built a strong foundation we had a strong foundation if we didn't this country would be some mess and if a guy like biden gets in where he wants to raise your taxes quadruple and he wants to put all those ridiculous regulations that used to take 20 years to get approval for a highway now we got it down to two years and i'm trying to get it down to one i think we can and it might not get built for safety reasons or environmental reasons but we have it down to a very very short period of time it used to take i mean we have roads 21 22 years and then it would get disapproved they would then raise their hands not to approve it after 20 years now you know those days are over but he would put everything back and he's going to raise he's going to raise your taxes like crazy i've never seen anyone you know all my life i've been involved indirectly usually on the other side only exclusively i've never seen raising taxes i've seen politicians we will lower your tax this is the first politician that's ever running saying he's going to quadruple your taxes what the heck this is a cree this is the craziest thing i've ever seen i mean it's i'm looking up i'm saying is this really like is this serious first of all i look at him i say is am i running against this man i'm running against i'm running against sleepy joe in prime time he wasn't good now i'm running against him this is not prime time did you think he did well in the debate the other night the last question was the best though right because he lied about fracking he kept lying he kept going during the primaries there will be no fracking there will be no fracking by the way you're a big fracking state you better hope that either you've only got about a million you've only got about a million jobs more importantly than the jobs is you get the lowest energy prices we've had how about your two dollar gasoline unless what you wouldn't mind if it went to nine ten dollars twelve dollars you couldn't get it well they wouldn't mind because they'd like you to get rid of all your cars no more airplanes no more cars no more cows you don't count i think they took that off the manifesto right it was too much but they would like it they would like it no what we're doing has been incredible you can't have your tax increase so i'm cutting taxes we're doing another big tax cut that's what brought everything in  billions and billions of dollars has come into our country because of what we've done what you're going to do is chase it all out because i mean they're you know these are people without a lot of heart they go where they make the deal we brought it down we brought the middle income taxes down child tax credit a thousand dollars a child he said he wants to get rid of it okay he wants to get rid of it why does he want to get rid of it he  that could only take place in the great state of ohio you know i worked here for a couple of summers in cincinnati i like i like cincinnati i like ohio  worked out well it was a good success and you know it's like uh when something works out well you like it that was i was very young a job in cincinnati swifton village did anybody ever hear swift in swiftly anyway and we bought it and we sold it and it worked out nice and you know you always have like a good feeling but i have an even better feeling because of what happened four years ago with ohio even better feel and it's gonna happen again but it's the first time i've ever seen a politician say we will raise your taxes i'm saying wait a minute let's get it did he say no seriously have you ever heard a politician campaigning or i'm going to raise your taxes and i'm going to put a lot more regulations but a lot of people don't know you know i think the regulation cuts we did was actually more important maybe not for everybody but for the business people and then they hire in jobs all over the place you know we had 160 million people working we've never been anywhere close to that number we're going to be back very soon 11.4 million people hired over the last year mark which was a record but i think the regulation cuts might have been even more important this election is a choice between a trump super recovery and a biden in my opinion this is going to happen i hate to say it depression you're going to have a depression and your 401ks does anybody have a 401k throw them away they're not going to be worth it it's a choice between a boom and a lockdown did you hear him during the debate right he said i'd lock it down oh yes i don't know we're not locking it down no no we're not lying we've learned the disease we did the right thing we saved millions of lives we saved two million lives maybe more than that we locked it then we opened but we understand it like young people baron he had it the doctor said you know baron very very tall young man and a great guy right but he's young and the doctor said sir baron has tested positive i said that's terrible aaron didn't even know he was he said next day the doctor comes in sir baron's fine because they're young like these guys over here they're young because they have strong immune systems right they're strong they have these strong beautiful immune systems so it was good uh i happened to test right you know why i couldn't stay in a basement i'd meet a lot of people i'm president i have to get out i have to get out no it's true i'd have meetings where i'd go back and say you know that's got to be dangerous that's got to be this or that but the fact is i had it it worked out well now i'm immune i could run up and kiss this whole group of people men and women oh no it worked out by the way 99.9 is good and then you're immune and all that stuff you know i heard you were immune for life so when i had it i said i'm immune to them to the fake news and they said but only for four months i heard it was like with me it was for four months if it was anybody else it'd say for life it's true but anyway no i had it first lady had it right and you get better we got better they love the first ladies very elegant most elegant most elegant first lady now it's amazing it's amazing they uh they don't treat her very nicely and she's incredible the most elegant woman and she goes but that is okay she loves the people i mean it's really amazing we love her  yeah now she's done a great job and she loves it she loves the people but she had it recovered i had it recovered baron had it didn't even know he had it so it's uh it's one of those things but we have to lead your life so when i would be having meetings with gold star families military lots of other people i'd have meetings right and i'd go and i'd do the meeting and sometimes people would come up and they cut clothes and everything else mask no mask they get close and i'd leave somebody's meeting say that could be dangerous i guess i don't know you know but i have to do my job as i said at the debate i can't put myself in the basement of the white house for a year and a half i can't do it until this thing goes away and it is going away it's rounding the turn do you notice they talk about cases always cases cases cases they don't talk about mortality rate down 85 percent because what we have is so incredible the job we've done is so incredible 85 percent think of that 85 percent but they they do it and you know what november 4th you're not going to hear the news the cnn all they talk about covent covet covet covert if if a plane goes down with 500 people they don't talk about it all they talk because they're trying to scare everybody you have to lead your life and you have to get out you have to be vigilant be careful socially distance yeah get too close put the mask on put it on you know lots of different things but but really i see what they're doing it's so it's just like they try to hide all of this corruption from the biden family by not putting it they refuse to write it and i have to give the new york post my hometown paper the new york book the oldest newspaper in the country the fourth largest i have to give them credit because they went against the grain and they're willing to expose all of this corruption and then you see big tech they won't put it on and if you put it on they delete you they terminate you charlie kirk break up big tech well they did sue gargoyle nothing to do with this of course but they did sue google on thursday right you like it no terrible no no but they've exposed themselves because nobody knew it was that serious they won't put it on and if you put it on if you put something on from the new york i think they didn't they delete the new york post they terminated out the new york files right can you imagine a newspaper they won't put it on people have learned they don't want anything because if biden got in they would own the world if biden got in china would own our country i mean china did you see where the kid was trying to get 10 million dollars a year for introduction purposes okay this was down this is all down in the paper they say russia did it this is all down in a paper now confirmed by the guy that ran the company he's he's not uh i would say they're not too happy with him would you say i saw him the other day but it's all right stuff i mean what he's saying is right he couldn't take it anymore he couldn't stand the corruption so let's see but can you imagine when people say don't print it in other words you'll never hear but you know it ended up backfiring because that happened it's become a much bigger story because you add it all up it's actually become if they would have printed it who knows what would have happened you forget it something but it's become a much bigger big tech section 230 right big tech is corrupt it's corrupt the media the fake news is corrupt and i've been saying it for a long time even i didn't know that you were that corrupt but look at all them even i didn't know that you were that corrupt in the meantime  in the meantime you watch the television sets go off let's cut cut this guy off cut the president can you imagine they're broadcasting this stuff and now they're saying cut them off but it's okay i don't mind because i like telling the truth biden and the democrats will offshore your jobs dismantle your police departments dissolve your borders confiscate your gun second amendment thereafter eliminate your private health care you know we have 180 million people with private health care a lot of you have private health care it's what you dream of it's great you negotiate you have many great companies doing it they compete you have great private health care they want to terminate it they want to terminate your religious liberty they want to destroy the suburbs i am the best thing that ever happened to the suburbs you know they were talking about this uh 60 minutes she asked me a question you saw that i put i printed out the whole interview i said put it down but she said to me the question one of her questions she said why are you begging why suburban women you said please love me suburban women please please love me please i i beg you please love me suburb no i didn't say that what i did is i said love me suburban women because i've saved the suburbs i've saved they had a regulation they had a regulation that would have brought low-income housing projects and crime right to their doorstep would have been right next to it and i said suburban women you're going to love me that's what i said and i was being psyched they said why are you begging for the love of superb suburban women are going to love me you know why because they want security they want safety and they don't want a regulation that's going to destroy suburbia that's all that's all because they said he's not doing well with suburban women i said what about suburban men how am i doing well there you're doing okay you're doing well with the men not the women but biden has vowed to abolish fracking right he says we're going to not frack anymore he has no he has no idea what it means we are not no fossil fuels no nothing we're going to close down all our factories we're going to go with wind wind wind is going to be the answer kills all our birds everything else we're going to have massive blackouts like they have in california the whole country you ever see the brownouts crippling power outages 700 000 ohio jobs would be destroyed biden lies about a lot of things he lied about that he lied about social security you saw that social security he also won't tell you the truth about decades-long quests he had a decades-long quest to renegotiate social security and medicare and he said he didn't do it or we have a tape here someplace do we have the tape i hope it works better than the big ten tape okay play both videos so we have one real quick we have i only do this for you never said i oppose frackie you said it on tape i did show the tape put it on your website i'll put it on would there be any place for fossil fuels including coal and fracking in the biden administration turn it up no we would we would work it out we would make sure it's eliminated what about say stopping cracking and stopping pipeline and restructuring no new fracking you gotta transition away from it look you're to ban fracking all across america right now right i would love to yeah i'd love to too i'd love to make sure we don't can't use any oil or gas period i guarantee i guarantee we're  have you been on the floor of the senate you were in the center for a few years yeah time and time again talking about the necessity with pride about cutting social security cutting medicare cutting veterans programs no you never said that no when i argued that we should freeze federal spending i meant social security as well i meant medicare and medicaid i'm not veterans man i'm at every single solitary thing in the government look here's the door an honest guy why don't you just tell the truth here we all make mistakes i am telling the truth and i not only tried it once i tried it twice i tried it the third time and i tried it a fourth time joe let me repeat it again i want you just to be straight with the american people i am saying that you have been on the floor of the senate time and time again talking about the need to cut social security medicare and veterans programs is that true or is that no it's not true that is not true that is not true i'm not veteran's man i meant every single solitary thing in the government everything was on the table i did not support any of those cuts in social security or in veterans oh whoa whoa everything was on the table all right you're right you just said it including in your judgment cuts the social security and veterans in order to get the kinds of changes we need on other things relate joel thank you but we did not cut it i know because people like me helped stop that all that i would say to the american people go to youtube it's all over the place joe said it many many times i'm surprised you know you can defend that or change your mind on it but you can't deny the reality we're starting to use this very expensive means of communication because it's so much easier than my explaining it so number one he said there'll be no fracking no fracking no fracking he luckily gets the nomination because elizabeth warren stayed in for an extra three days right if she would have left before super tuesday he wouldn't have won one stay and he would have been out and then i would have been competing against crazy bernie instead which is okay i don't care well there would have been more energy i mean you know there would have been a lot more no bernie has more energy smaller little face maybe but they have a lot of energy thick you know
i know i'm free and i won't forget the men who died who gave that right to me and i gladly stand up next to you and defend her still today bless next to you and defend her still today hello florida it is wonderful to be here in our home state thank you for taking the time to be here and for supporting the administration we love you too for those of you who are still deciding who to vote for on tuesday i hope that what i have to say will prove to you that a vote for president trump is a vote for a better america in a time when hate negativity and fear are the messages the media streams into our homes and the large tech companies are protecting political censorship we need to remember what is really important my husband's administration is focused on the future the health and safety of the american people the education and well-being of our children the safety and security of our streets and communities and the protection of our fundamental family values under donald's leadership we have blocked out the noise and focused on you the american people under my husband's leadership our nation is respected again our borders are safer we have won wars and we have stayed out of new conflicts we have made historic peace deals in the middle east we didn't just talk about it we moved our embassy to jerusalem the president stand with our friend israel more than any other president before our allies are now doing their fair share globally our economy sword and unemployment shrank our military is stronger than ever opportunities for women and specially working mothers expanded in our workforce healthcare for every citizen remains a priority for him and as you have seen over these past years he won't stop until he gets it done we have a law and order president donald fights to protect and support all our people he also fully supports our men and women in uniform while others are calling to defund them we have faith in our judges and our legal system to rule justly we respect our heritage and we condem all hate we should always learn from our past and it is more important than ever that we never forget it under this president our american values and ideals are protected cherished and upheld we have had three incredible years of making america great again in early 2020 our in early 2020 our nation began feeling the effects of a global pandemic a virus that invaded our nation and no one really understood now because of our amazing medical capabilities and resources we are in the process of developing powerful therapeutics and vaccine a vaccine is not a partisan issue if you are not supporting the safe production of a vaccine you're not supporting the health and safety of the american people there is no room to play politics on this topic in the midst of pandemic i want to take this moment to say thank you to the many amazing frontline workers who are with us today thank you for all that you are doing you keep our most vulnerable citizens safe our administration fully supports you and will continue to work tirelessly to ensure that you are equipped with all the medical supplies you need these this administration also continue working to develop safer procedures and practices so the children can get back in the classroom so that businesses can continue the opening and people can start earning an income again this president and his team are focused on not only destroying the virus and building back the economy they're focused on the creating ways for people to safely stop isolating and start gathering with friends again on a safe distances this is about mental health as much as it is cyclical we are a country of hope not a country of fear or weakness and we have a leader who shows us that every single day president trump chooses to move this country forward this country deserves a president with proven results not empty words and promises on tuesday the direction of our country will take is in your own your own hands i ask that you join us in continuing to put america first together we will overcome this pandemic and continue building the brightest future for generations to come thank you god bless you all god bless your families it is now my pleasure to welcome the president of united states donald j trump oh wow thank you very much that was a little bit of a surprise that was a surprise thank you melania good job i love our first lady they love our friends always and america is blessed to have you thank you very much honey that's great so i'm thrilled to be here in my our home state florida i love this state and i love the people of this state and five days from now we are going to win florida we are going to win four more years for the white house and we're going on to win a record share of the hispanic american vote you see what's happening oh they're very concerned back there the fake news they are so concerned melania you don't know too much about them you've seen enough but they are very unhappy you know what's happening don't you you see what's happening we've led florida every single day what's going on this is a terrible thing for them actually it's a good thing for them they just don't know it they haven't quite figured that out yet now we're doing incredibly in florida we're doing incredibly all over and this isn't based on polls this is based on fact this is based on votes that are coming in but you have to get out and vote we are creating the greatest red wave in the history of our country oh it's been amazing we'll talk about it a little while i want to get some of the little introductions and introductory things out but we have to talk about the uh what's going on in our country with the big tech you know the power of big tech they're incredible they're incredible no no no i heard about the power for a long time the power of big tech i heard about it four years ago sir big tech is against you they're tremendously powerful you can't beat them then we had the election we won i said oh how did that happen and the fake news media 94 of the stories about us are negative think of it think of it 64 of the stories about sleepy joe are positive how the hell do you have a positive story about this guy how do you have a positive story about him this election is a choice between my plan to deliver historics and you know what this is going to be right historic this is historic prosperity another major tax cut to go along with the biggest tax cut in the history of our country and record job growth and joe biden's plan is to deliver punishing lockdown she's going to lock you down and florida's all opened up you have a great governor did he speak too long today or not no no i watched him on the plane i said oh look there's ron you know they have the little thing in the box i said oh look there's ron he's he looked like he was up there a long time no she said yes uh he's a great governor you have a great governor he's a great guy they want to give you massive tax hikes the first time that i've ever seen i've been with politics all my life essentially only doing this for a few years on this side of it but we've done well haven't we when you think a senator came into my office said sir an older guy nice guy pro total pro so i've been in nine races and i've won seven of them sir and i'm a united states senator i said senator i've been one race and i've won one now we want to win two but i wouldn't but it was the presidency we took them all by surprise didn't we we took them by surprise they're still trying to recover and you will have a crippling depression the likes of which you've never seen if sleepy joe becomes your president and your 401ks throw them out the window because you know what's going to happen and you know our stock market has a big headwind the headwind is if he wins and we are doing great do you see the number today 33.1 gdp the biggest in the history of our country by almost triple right almost triple now it's uh very much bigger than any gdp we've ever had you have to go back to the 1950s and then it's less than half this is the greatest number 33.1 percent if you ask me two weeks ago i would have said i'll take 12 12 would have been very nice nobody ever heard of 12 percent 33.1 and let me tell you what they're going to do i never even thought of this one they won't even talk about it this is the biggest event in business in 50 years nobody's ever seen a number like this this is bigger than any nation no nation has a number like that other nations right now they're look we were compared to europe germany is doing so well france is doing so well everyone's doing so well no they're not doing well and you take a look at what's going on and we want the best for them we're on their team we want to work with them and everything else but they're not doing well they're spiking up big they're shutting down they're locking down i disagree with that because we're never going to lock down again we locked down we understood the disease and now we're open for business and that's what it is and that's what it is this explosive economic growth is four times greater than what the experts expected they expected a number that would be like seven percent 8 but here's what's going to happen you're going to go back home you're going to say that was incredible melania was unbelievable the governor the governor was incredible he i've never heard anybody speak like that trump was okay to love that but we have no choice we have to vote for trump because it's between trump and sleepy joe and anybody beat sleepy joe i could take a couple of these guys they're friends of mine they're not good people they're better than joe i will tell you now do you believe what i'm running against i'm running against the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics i don't care lose a draw this is the worst candidate in the history he shouldn't be there because pocahontas kept going instead of getting out then it would have been against bernie which would have been fine too you know what you would have had a more energetic base if we had bernie that's one thing because i don't know if they have a base here's what's happened he goes for a speech they're showing you thousands and thou look as far as the all the way back to that building as far as the eye can see biden is leaving his basement today he took the lid off you know what he does he takes the lid off runs to the closest part of delaware like if you can get a little piece of pennsylvania people in pennsylvania are wise to him they know all about his no fracking no fracking no fracking then he gets to pennsylvania he learns it's a million jobs and by the way pennsylvania they give us that you can fire up your factories they give us the energy and it's inexpensive energy so it goes to pennsylvania all of a sudden he changes yes so i have nothing against fracking and the press doesn't call him out on it right and they don't call him out on where's hunter they don't call about where's hunter where's hunter is hunter in the crowd they don't call him out they don't call them out on where's hunting ah it's crazy that's crazy you know some people said i get a call from all the experts right guys that ran for president six seven eight times never got past the first round but they're calling me up sir you shouldn't be speaking about hunter you shouldn't be saying bad things about bikers nobody cares i disagree you know maybe that's why i'm here and they're not but they say they say talk about your economic success talk about 33.1 the greatest in history now look if i do i mean how many times can i say it i'll say it five or six times during the speech 33.1 but you look at that and you look at tucker carlson what he did the other night great and followed up by sean and followed up by laura and the next day nothing at all right nothing nothing in the new york times the fake new york times hey how about anonymous did we see anonymous a low staffer anonymous turned out to be a guy i'm trying to figure out i don't know who the hell this guy is so the new york times said a senior white house official nobody knew who he was this was a look we are in big trouble with the press they are truly the enemy of the people they are the enemy of the people so this guy this guy he goes out his low life well i never i never saw him i think he has a picture of me standing there like i do with thousands of people this lowlife goes out and he writes a book by the way when he left he had nothing but praise for the trump oh it's incredible incredible then somebody gets him at the new york times the fake new york times and all of a sudden he becomes nasty and he writes and they say a top white house official well he was a staffer low had nothing to do with the white house he had nothing to do and he goes in and you know what there should be major criminal liability for some scum like this and you know for a year everybody walks into my office secretary of state pompeo i could name every one of them all good people i'm looking at them saying wonder if that could be the one you know and it turns out to be this low life that nobody knows who the hell he is he had nothing to do with us i don't think i ever met him and i might have met him i think somebody said he has a picture of me standing someplace this is a disgrace to our country it shouldn't happen and he should be prosecuted are you listening to me back in washington he should be prosecuted along with the new york times because it was a story made up it was fake news made up by the new york times and you know who he works for now cnn he works for cnn right there see the camera right there with the light that just went off it just see that honey that red light just went off fake news cnn and anderson cooper and anderson cooper asked him are you anonymous and he lied to him he said no essentially said no i'm not and he works for cnn i would think cnn would be firing him about but this is a real low life you know who else he works for google he works for google i think google should fire him very quickly because bad things are going to happen to him but think of what he does to our government right it's like a horrible treasonous horrible thing that you can do this and you can get away with it weekly jobless claims this is boring but it's really good just hit a seven month low in other words from the beginning of the pandemic seven months ago no we're gonna have next year the best year we've ever had economically and it's true biden is holding back the stock market because you know it's an election crazy things could happen maybe a hundred percent of the people in florida decide not to vote you know you never know but we have a headwind so it's gone down a little bit over the last few days because you know you're coming close and it could be we're going to win this election so big you watch we're going to win it and that's the only reason the market's going down the market's going down because if he gets in seriously you're going to have one of the worst depressions we've ever had you're going to have and john roberts from fox's back there and i think he agrees and john roberts is very unhappy because he doesn't want his 401k to go down the tubes now john's treated us very fairly not perfect he's not perfect i will say but he's been overall pretty good he's pretty good so cnn google we've got to do something about all of it new york times is fake it's fake they write so many fake stories thanks to our policies america is experiencing the fastest and biggest recovery we're having the best recovery anywhere in the world no other country small or large is recovering like us think of that in the past five months we've created a record 11.4 million american jobs the fastest job growth in the history of our country our job growth has been 23 times faster than the first five months under obama biden recovery which was by the way the worst recovery since the great depression you do know that right and just you know because all all biden does is talks about kofit right he doesn't call it the china virus you know why because china hasn't paid off he can't use that term you know they gave his son one and a half billion to manage he makes millions of dollars a year i assume right the smartest guys on wall street said no sir that could not have happened we can't get it now he got he took him about what 10 minutes he walked in he walked out with one and a half billion hey maybe he's not so stupid after all right that's the only thing i thought he was so dumb maybe he's not as dumb as we think he can't look he cannot take on china i didn't say anything the problem is biden is totally the biggest story no the second biggest story the worst was when they spied on my campaign and they got caught that's the biggest political corruption story in the history of our country but this could very well be second and we have what's called the laptop from hell the laptop from now from what i've understood you only have seen a tiny portion of it but you know what the press is now doing they're blaming russia it's russia did it russia's the one that created the laptop and russia brought it into that little shop to have it fixed russia i think russia's looking at us they're saying those people are stone cold crazy this now it was russia's fault they said it loud and clear it was russia russia russia aren't we tired of this crap i saw a ship i saw a shift the other day two days ago watermelon he looks like a watermelon head right remember he lied in the halls of congress he read my conversation with the president of ukraine but it wasn't my conversation hey how great do we love those people that took down the language professional military people word for word for word if i didn't have it would have been my word against shifty shift right eight times he said quit pro quo think of what that means eight times you've asked for the same thing the guy in the other after the third time the guy on the other side would say he's got some serious problems i don't even know him i called him to say congratulations on becoming president of ukraine and for that i got impeached but you know what we have we have a lot of great republicans and i hope you're going to be voting for those republicans also great republicans we have one of them here mark meadows has anyone ever heard of mark brothers took me three years to get him out of congress and become chief of staff he's great he's here he was one of our great ones and you know who helped me a lot honestly in fact i said don't run for governor ron stay exactly where he was a congressman you governor right there he is look at mark he's out there working with the phone he's got the phone going he uses two at one time right but your governor was another one he stood up you know he's harvard and yale do you know that your governor he doesn't talk about it he doesn't talk about it but he would be on television defending me and fighting for me there was a group jim jordan did anyone ever hear of jim jones jim gordon 128 and one you know jim was an ncaa wrestling champion one of the best one of the best he was a great one he was a great one and you know when you win like he won he won everything when you win like that it's also right here it's muscle but it's got to be muscle attached to a lot of brain right you guys know the athletes know that but jim was great and but ron was ron was fantastic you governor he asked me he said would you support me for governor i said no not really i'd rather have you stay right where you are you know you're doing a good job of defending me but think of it what we had to do and we got 197 to nothing in the house think of that 197th and then we went to the senate and we had 52 and a half to a half you know who the half was but that's okay that was the guy that sleepy joe biden he couldn't remember his name remember he said the guy from uh the guy from isn't he the governor from that place uh utah utah i don't know his name i can't remember his name who's romney sleepy joe's a little bit off let's face it sleepy joe is shot and i'm not a fan of his and he's not a nice guy just you know i feel better if he was a nice guy i couldn't say these things he's not a nice guy now he doesn't remember whether or not he used to be a nice guy he was never considered smart he was a touchy-feely guy you know those guys touchy feeling but not a nice guy not a smart guy our incredible first lady is sitting here right now and she's saying and she's saying to herself i wonder if all rallies are like this now most of them are a little bit different but that's okay you know why honey we're in florida this is like home this is home right this is home we say it like it is we say it like it is we created the greatest economy in history and now we are doing it again see all that hat that beautiful hat let's make america great again right we're going to make a new one let's make america great again again we did it we did it now we're doing it again my first lady wants to do it again under my leadership the florida tourism industry and hospitality industry will come roaring back very soon it's ready to happen we're making the turn we've got the vaccines coming very soon the fda has worked miracles they had no choice they had them this would have taken if joe was in charge you wouldn't have a vaccine for four years i was going to say he he was in charge of the swine flu he calls it n1h1 it's actually h1n1 i say joe it's not it's h1 h comes it's easy because h comes before n i said joe joe that's what it is i said just go with swine flu you don't have to call don't the numbers are too complicated three days ago he said i'm a proud democrat earning for the united states senate and i hope i have music you can't put the look we can't play games you know you've seen enough have you seen enough this is crazy but based on the early numbers i've seen i think you understand exactly what i'm talking about you know we have the potential we have the greatest country in the world but we have the potential to go to places that we've never been in a positive manner we can the potential of our country is so incredible and you see it happening already you look at germany you look at all of these countries they're now locked down they've got a lot of problems you look at our numbers look at our recovery fastest recovery we went down the least economically went down by far as much as it's painful and terrible we went down the least we've done an incredible job it was projected that we would lose 2.2 million people right the projections were 2.2 million by the way we shouldn't have lost one person china should have never let this happen they should have never let it escape and we will not forget we will not forget that bayer's agenda will devastate the hispanic american community he betrayed hispanic americans for 47 years he's been very bad to the hispanic americans and what uh what is happening with those poll numbers i have the highest numbers we are now according to the polls i'm sure which are real polls we are now beating the democrats for the first time ever with hispanic americans first time first time ever and i've always loved them and i think they've always loved me first time ever first time ever and the the fakers back there are going crazy and now biden wants to close your small businesses and confiscate your gun second amendment don't worry about it the second amendment while letting far left rioters looters and vandals roam free look what he's doing in philadelphia look what what's happening those are people that he's supporting he couldn't even come out against him yesterday they asked him a question he said uh what's philadelphia where is it he didn't know what state it was in other than that he's doing a wonderful job could you imagine could you imagine losing to this guy could you imagine our first lady will have to say darling i don't know this is impossible but you have to be very careful when you say that you know whenever i say anything that even uses the word losing the fake news said he is thinking about losing this is a big story president trump thinks he's going to list no i don't i don't i think you're going to lose and i think you've lost all credibility and our elegant first lady sits and she says what the hell is happening here this election is a choice between the american dream and a socialist nightmare that's what it is it's socialism venezuela i used to say venezuela on steroids this is this would be if they got in a very very very large version of venezuela and it can happen with the green new deal and all these crazy you know look aoc plus three i heard she's very insulted that i call her aoc i'm not i call her aoc plus three that's the three characters that like ilhan omar i'm gonna win minnesota because of ilhan omar she tells us how to run our country she's taught us how to run our country i don't think so ilhan omar so we're going to win the state of minnesota for two reasons her and the fact that when minneapolis had their problem they should have called us sooner but when they called us how long did it take 25 minutes it was extinguished we could have done it the first hour instead of waiting for a week and a half but the governors they have to call and i give the governor credit he eventually called he'll eventually call they should call us i'll tell you oregon they should call us in portland oh would i love to go in with the anarchists they would last 15 minutes or guys you know you got to like hold them back they want to let us in sir we'd like to go in i mean in my seat troops sir we'd like to go into oregon we'll take care of them i say just calm down just calm down it wouldn't take them long it would take them about 15 how long and then we'd well we'd do things and then eventually they'd end up going home about 10 years later back home to mom and dad where they started in the basement antifa you know antifa so biden called it an idea he said antifa's just an idea i said no when you get hit over the head behind your back with a baseball bat that's not an idea that's not an idea but he called didn't he call the united states he called the united states an idea too i said no no it's not an idea the united states is a great nation that's what it is it's not an idea he called us an idea so he puts us in the same category as antifa as long as i am president america will never be a socialist country and i say it all the time this election will decide whether our children will be condemned to the misery of socialism or whether they will inherit the glorious legacy of american freedom this election will decide whether the biden harris how about her how about her i'll tell you what when our great vice president mike pence debated her it was a total you know the expression if it were a fight they would have ended it within two days they were saying the fake news she did magnificently well against mike pence no no no that's what happens you know you do great great great two days later you realize they have a down that you lost now mike did fantastically he's a great vice president he works very hard i'll tell you one thing you know his kids are in the military and they're teachers i guarantee you one thing mike pence has not made hundreds of millions of dollars by scamming foreign countries because that's what they've done they've made hundreds of millions of dollars and they can't and nobody wants to talk about look at that oh are they doing that on purpose are they friend or foe i don't actually felt good i felt water on my face i said where the hell is that they may be doing that on purpose let's find out if they're friend their foe and if their phone let's take care of their son of a isn't it look at that are you okay oh look they're hitting the press if that's okay oh there goes the cameras there goes a million dollars worth of equipment look at that wow that's cool actually and i'll tell the media i have nothing to do with that but it is sort of like calling a feeling like a little that's great you know it's amazing it's amazing and i say it all the time because we've liked ronald reagan we've liked a lot of you know people mostly their stiffs mostly generally speaking they don't do the job right but we've had good ones like ronald reagan he's the one i think about but nobody ever chanted first of all he'd never get a crowd like this he'd have two or three hundred people would there be in a ballroom that would be that was like the norm nobody have you got to see yesterday we had 35 40 000 people we were in arizona the day before two days before we were in pennsylvania we did three in pennsylvania one bigger than the next like this and you know what's common the love it's all the same the love is incredible love for our country it's the love for our country but there's never been a chant we love you i'm watching this guy here he looks like he could take on anybody in the world he's a big strong guy i don't think he's ever cried in his life before and i see him wiping away tears we love you we love you this guy he hasn't cried since he was a baby and probably didn't cry then either and now he's crying no there has never been that chance before and i appreciate it and i'll cry that's why i end it early i'll i'll cry except i don't want them to say your president broke down in tears today i don't know that's not cool we don't want we don't want president xi of china to say gee i just saw something that surprises me you know we've taken billions and billions of dollars out of china we gave 28 billion to our farmers 28 right out of china i don't want to have but then the plague came in right then the play came in that sort of everything you know we made a great deal with china the ink wasn't dry before the plague came in so it's a whole different feeling i will say three weeks ago they ordered more corn corn more soy beans more beef than at any time in the history of this country so they obviously think i'm going to win they obviously think we're going to win and they want to make us happy but we're not happy because that should have been stopped and it's not here all over the world you see what's going on europe it's so sad but you see what's going on 188 countries all over the world what china has done to this world what they've done people come up to me their clothes and masks and stuff and this hello president-elect i said look look at this what china has done to our country what china what i may do that you better be careful what china has done to this country it's not the first time either but you can never pay for 200 000 more lives you can never pay for that yeah we can we can make them pay plenty but uh 210 000 lives but it would have been 2 million lives it's incredible the job that we've done and that the american people have done this could have been 2 million lives he said 2.2 million lives no they're going to pay we believe in safe streets secure communities and we believe in law and order not like in philadelphia and they can't let that happen they can't let the looters run wild they can't do it you can't either have law and order or you don't philadelphia can't do what they're doing and they have good police in philadelphia they like trump i can tell you i've got i've been endorsed by every law enforcement group new york's finest they endorse me they've never endorsed a presidential candidate new york's finest endorsement it was a great honor because i grew up with new york's finest then they are they're incredible people they're not being allowed to do their job they've been way he cut back a billion dollars he took back and now crime is way up that's not even the money they're not being allowed they're incredible people tough as hell fair they love our country they're not being allowed in new york to do our job between the governor and the mayor they're being just absolutely and they want to leave they want to get out they have plenty of other opportunity they don't need the danger it's a dangerous job for all police but we've been endorsed by new york we were endorsed by chicago police the chicago police that's tough we've been endorsed by all of your sheriffs you have sheriffs you have great tough sheriffs i know many of them but the sheriffs we had a big ceremony two months ago in florida ron was there you were endorsed we got endorsed by the sheriffs all law enforcement all over florida and i asked sleepy joe at the debate i said joe name one law enforcement agency just one in the whole country that endorsed you he couldn't do it remember then chris wallace 
    god  does anybody have a coat i could use please this is definitely not the right one hello michigan and thank you very much for four years ago but i gave you a lot of auto plants so i think we're even right and we have a lot more moving in a lot more moving in thank you very much i love you too if i didn't i wouldn't be standing here because it's freezing out here think of this two days now we're down to two days right two days from now we are going to win the state of michigan again again and we are going to win four more years in that very beautiful place called the white house over the last four years i fought for michigan like no one has ever fought for michigan before i became president the great state of michigan was hemorrhaging your car companies and your car businesses and thanks to corrupt politicians like joe biden he's turned out to be a corrupt politician he is corrupt plants were closing and moving to mexico and many other places you know that you know that better than anybody there had been new no new plants had been built in michigan in decades and decades before i got here i stopped the moves and now many plants are being built and already have been built plants are being expanded the automobile business is coming back i told i told countries japan germany and others sorry you have to bring it into our country and i always used to say like michigan i think of michigan when i think of cars and i'd say michigan but i'd say ohio and i'd say south carolina and plenty other places and we've brought back millions of car and millions of cars produced a year but the biggest beneficiary is right here right here i'm standing up to the global special interest who got rich bleeding america dry you know that wind is coming right into my face and i'm saying it's hard to breathe they set this place up great that wind is pouring in as i'm talking is poor again up the mouth up the nose this is very pleasant this is very pleasant i hope they don't recover i hope they don't report this one for posterity okay this is a crazy place but we love michigan good job job i'm just saying whoever set this up that you know he could have had a little angle how about a battle election the corrupt establishment hates me because i don't answer to them i answer to you which is true and with your vote we will continue to bring you jobs back to enact fair trade you saw what we've done but think of all the plants just forget about everything else you didn't have any auto plants four years ago i got man of the year in michigan 12 years ago and i left i said i made a speech i said you know mexico and canada they're taking all your car business why are you letting that happen it turned out to be quite a controversial speech it was true but it was controversial it was very controversial i laugh i'm saying my people are geniuses real genius but you know what it turned out to be true and since then we've been doing things like nobody's ever done cut your taxes cut your regulations and ensure that more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful words that beautiful phrase made in the usa  thank you very much so we had the luck of having ivanka here so i said yeah you introduced me and i'll tell you that was the shortest introduction she's ever given me and now i understand why i understand thank you darling it was actually under the circumstances it's not too bad next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country you see what's happening you see what's happened we had growth like nobody has ever seen in this country or probably any other country 33.1 and they hardly the fake news hardly makes it a story  but right now they don't care they're just trying to survive look at them back there they're just trying to survive joe biden will shut down your economy raise taxes once a four trillion dollar tax increase he's the only politician i've ever seen who said we will raise your taxes you're supposed to vote for us we will not frack you know he said that for a year and then when he came to pennsylvania he goes like oh yeah i guess it's okay no no there won't be energy they're going to go the green new deal the green new deal will destroy our country the green new deal is done by aoc plus three right i don't think they ever talk do you think they ever took a course in the environment i wonder did you ever have a course on let's say the environment the green new deal at first i thought they were kidding then they said you know some actually they are kidding you know that they get it they get it they're kidding but uh but you're gonna have to pay for their kidding they want to close down your factories ship your jobs to china eliminate private health care destroy the suburbs i got rid of the you know i always say women whoa the women that was them speaking the women of the suburbs you've got to love me i got rid of the regulation that will ruin the suburbs i cut it out i said let's terminate it ben let's just terminate it but if they come back then cory booker is going to be in charge and that regulation will be that regulation will not be good now we save the suburbs they want to abolish oil coal natural gas and send your state into a you know what's going to happen here you'll have a depression you'll have a depression your gasoline will go up to six seven dollars how do you like the two dollar gasoline that's well you know you'll have it for a long time if you elect trump if you don't you're going to be boom the damage that biden and harris would inflict would endure for many generations you can't fix it easy you can't fix it easy under my leadership our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded 33.1 percent this was announced yesterday right it was just announced they didn't make a big deal out of it if this were announced with obama they'd say this is the greatest president ever you know he's so great that he left me 142 judges to fill right 142. you know what if i were a democrat and think of it i'm a democrat and my president left me 142 slots of judges that's why we're going to be at 300 judges and three supreme court judges they said sir the wind isn't so strong no it's about 50 miles an hour i think it's a minus 20 degree chill they call it wind chill right this is a this is a true test but i love the people of michigan we want we want it's worth it it's worth it  it's worth it we won last time right it's right if we didn't win last time i probably wouldn't even be standing i'd get up here i said no thanks this is like the great pavarotti the singer when you know he's a very he was a diva he was the greatest of all davis he was an incredible talent with the most unbelievable voice and i've gone to concerts where he would say no no no no i do not feel good i will not sing tonight and he'd live and then i've gone to somewhere it was the most unbelievable voice that ever lived i mean the greatest right pavarotti but he was he liked me for whatever reason he was very terrible to other people to me he was nice he liked me but he goes donald donald i will not sing tonight you don't have a thousand people i will not sing tonight because i do not feel i will leave tonight and italy would say ladies and gentlemen he's just canceled but when he was great he was great but now i feel like him i say ladies and gentlemen thank you very much i'm getting no i don't have that i'm not a diva while foreign nations are in free fall we are creating the world's greatest economic powerhouse we are the economic envy of the world and now the military envy of the world we have the greatest new equipment anywhere in the world a recent gallup poll recent gallup poll found that 56 of americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago under obama biden and we're rounding the turn on a pandemic think of that so and that's a record in my first three years i raised middle class family incomes 6 500 that was in a three-year period whereas the biden harris agenda was projected and is projected to if if you go by that crazy plan wall street journal you're gonna lose six thousand dollars they're gonna take it out and they're gonna waste it but it's not six it's much more than that and we're going up to a substantial number and that's not including energy and if you think about energy when you're two dollars and your electric bills are nice and low when they get rid of all our petroleum products and other things everything and they go to wind let's build windmills all over the place let's litter the landscape let's have littered the lance you know when you build a windmill i'm not against wind it should be in industrial areas maybe but it's very expensive very expensive and if you want to see a lot of dead birds all you have to do is go to the bottom of a windmill if you'd like to see a lot of dead birds go to the bottom of they pile up they don't know what to do with them i'll tell you it's crazy and they're environmentalists they want wind and when the wind doesn't blow let's watch president trump's speech tonight state of the union he's done very nice say to the union with nancy ripping it up in the back crazy let's watch let's watch president strong let's watch his and and the man the husband will say darling i'm sorry we can't the wind is not blowing today it's intermittent they call you it intermittent network intermittent television now we have to power our great factories we have to power our great these plants these great plants and factories and you can't do it that way maybe someday but right now in solar i like solar it's extremely expensive and it doesn't have near the power that you need for what we're talking about now and you know when we do what they want us to do but china doesn't do it and russia doesn't do it and india doesn't do it we will be at such a competitive disadvantage we might as well just fold up the tent we have the number one economy in the world right now by far by far and we're not losing it on my watch i can tell you that joe biden sleepy joe spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs opening your borders and sacrificing american blood and treasure in endless foreign wars michigan lost half of its auto job thanks to biden's nafta and china disasters you know it's amazing nobody saw the debate i'm sure the other night right nobody do you notice the way i kept saying joe why didn't you do it he'd say well i would do this and i would do that and i would i said joe why didn't you do it you were there for 47 years and you just left three and a half years ago you know why didn't you do it sleepy joe you sleepy guy you see him now he's got he's got the shades on comes out hey hey hey hey be quiet up there be quiet he said they keep clapping up there they're all our people we have more people show up there are people you know he's very agitated you know how angry he is he's so angry you know why he's angry because he's losing that's why he's like no it's very agitated i don't think he knows he's losing i don't think he knows anything actually either now he's very very angry and agitated but now he's got the shades what do they call them aviators but they're too small they should be bigger you know you've got the little shades on it doesn't have to work on the eyes but uh it is something you see the way our people they you know they were protecting his bus yesterday because they're nice so this must they had hundreds of cars trump trump trump and the american flag that's a you see trump and american flag do you ever notice when you see the other side i don't even see much of the other side you don't see any they have no spirit they have no enthusiasm they have no nothing but you know what i don't see them but whenever you see like a small group because there's got to be small cause there's nobody around nobody cares but you see these groups you never see an american flag i always say if you look at a group and you don't see the american flag you know that's the opposition you know and i say that congress said i'm going to do very hard for this because we have to go through a big deal but i say when somebody burns the american flag they should go to jail for one year and we have to get even the sister oh look at the sisters you agree with me these beautiful sisters wow well we're with you you know the little sisters of the poor i'm with them and you know we did a good job are you cold are you cold right now don't be too cold they go no god will keep you warm i know that bro so beautiful so beautiful no i i really we're going to do that and because you know i thought i could just like institute and maybe do an executive order they oh you can't do that sir it has to go through a whole big deal but we're going to do it we'll get guys like jim jordan and some of our great congress right we'll get our great congressman you have some of the great ones right here we're going to get some of our congressmen and women and we're going to put in we're going to put in legislation you burn the american flag i see it with antifa they're constantly yesterday they were burning it antifa you burn the american flag you go to jail for one year it's very simple okay i like it biden embraced the trans-pacific partnership which would have been a death sentence for your auto industry in your state uh if it was okay with you i cancelled it okay before we nev it never got off the ground for us and i ended the nafta nightmare and took the toughest ever action against china and ended the long nightmare of american economic surrender now we have the usmca which is great for you and your companies won't be leaving  just kicked in your companies will be one thing i had to have wait i wouldn't i want to i have to look this way so i can breathe the wind is so strong you can't breathe i've never i've never had that before it's pouring in bad this is a beauty this is a hell of a day you guys must love trump this place is it feels so good when i look at them it's perfect but they didn't set it up right that's okay we'll get by it but a vote for biden is a vote to completely eradicate i mean you will eviscerate your auto industry it will be terrible we can't do it you know we've worked very hard to bring it back i met with prime minister abby of japan great guy since retired he had a problem with health and uh but a fantastic man and i said no shinzo you have to send plants to michigan you have to send plants to the united states and he said no no no i cannot do that that is a private decision i said shinzo you're a powerful man i'm sure you can do it no no no i said you have to do it shinzo because you're making too many cars sending them here we want them made in the united states you have to do it he says well i can't the next day they announced there were five companies moving to michigan japan that was japan he was he's a great guy that one i'll tell you while biden was giving china your jobs his family raked in millions and millions of dollars from the chinese communist party think of that joe biden is a corrupt politician who bought and is paid for look he's bought and paid for by china how about his son his son walks in he's supposed to be fair  now how the hell can this guy deal with china his son's you know like a human vacuum cleaner dad where hey dad what country are you going today china oh good maybe i can take in a couple of million but really it's not that it's much more let me follow you dad i'm the vacuum cleaner let me follow give you ten percent hey dad i'll give you ten percent no he took it a billion and a half and he managed he with no experience he's managing a billion and a half dollars then he got his big one was he wants china to pay 10 million dollars a year for recommending service he's going to recommend okay he's going to introduce i guess he calls it introductory services he's introducing his father sister do you think this is honest do you think someone they all said no that's good enough for me sister although how about ukraine the kid do you have any energy experience no when was the last time you worked well i was thrown out of the military i haven't worked in a long time oh i see but you know something about energy now well we'd love to have you serve on the board of barisma would 183 thousand dollars a month be satisfactory no i'd like you to make an upfront payment of three million dollars okay so we'll give you an upfront payment of three million dollars we'll give you a hundred and eighty three thousand a month would you be yes we'll accept that but uh we want very big escalation over the course of a year oh we'll work that out too this is so corrupt i mean this is so cool and how about just to find a russian russia russia did you see the laptop from hell now shifty shift okay shift you know the world's most dishonest politician chief shifty shift he said he thinks the laptop from hell was created by russia it was right they go you know in russia they probably look they said oh no here we go again these these politicians a friend of mine said tell me a great guy very successful guy i mean he's not really a friend anymore because he keeps calling me mr president he used to go hey don let's have dinner very successful richard hey don let's have dinner let's get together and you talk and you'd have fun you know it's normal right now he calls hello mr president sir how are you how are you doing is everything good i said yeah it's good richard you have to call me mr president it's just i can't take it it's like you lose all your friends because they're intimidated by the office does that make sense you don't have any friends i have my friends in michigan we have our friends in mexico hello mr president i said richard call me donald okay donald two minutes later mr president thank you very much thank  okay at you we're having a good time is there any place to have a better time than a trump rally i mean it's very it's very serious times but you know when it's cold like this and it's probably like less than zero with the wind chill and with the wind blowing directly this was a person that works for us that doesn't like me probably very much but no it's direct but we're going to have we're having a good time i'm having a good time enjoy your contest it's really a contest to see whether or not we can all stand it right and we'll get through it and we'll love it we'll love it and i'm loving it if biden wins china wins when we win america wins in 2016 michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as your president who is finally putting america first if i don't sound like a typical washington politician it's because i'm not a politician if i don't always play by the rules of washington and the washington establishment it's because i was elected to fight for you and nobody has ever fought harder for you  remember this mission because you got to vote the big thing you got to go vote tuesday if you don't vote for me after this deal i'll tell you now i don't want you to do that i want you because we did a great job we worked back your car industry your car industry was finished your car you would have had nothing left if i wasn't president i really believe you would have everybody would have moved back out to mexico and these other places and by the way the usmca puts you on a whole different footing you know how i know because mexico and canada didn't love the deal that always you know they didn't love it they're not they're not so thrilled they like they like the old deal much better why can't they used to say every 15. why don't we just keep the old deal no thank you you don't have to take my word for it and buying 47 years of treachery and betrayal we have it on tape you'll see this where the hell is it we only do this for areas that we like because that sucker is expensive i mean just seriously just holding it up holding it up in this wind go ahead roll it  my problem is i voted for nafta i'm supporting nafta because i think it is a positive thing to do and i do not pretend to be an expert on international trade matters trade agreements like nafta and permanent normal trade relations with china which forced american workers to compete against people making pennies an hour has resulted in the loss of 160 000 jobs the president is absolutely right when he says that china has been cheating for 25 years and that bill clinton didn't do enough about it george w bush didn't do enough about it barack obama didn't do enough about it rising china is an incredibly positive development for not only china but the united states and the rest of the world rising china is a positive positive development it is in our self-interest that china continue to prosper we want to see china rise china is a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion china is not our enemy  they're not bad folks folks china's not a problem allowing china into the world trade organization which he supported extending most favored nation status to china which he supported that those steps allowed china to take advantage of the united states by using our own open trade deals against us oh do you think in retrospect that you were naive about china no but doesn't he deserve some credit for that it's better the usmca is better than nafta it is better than nafta you know we have to come together that's why i'm running i'm running as a proud democrat for the senate so vote vote visit iowa.com ohio god bless you uh can somebody tell joe by the way it's not a real website and joe you're running for president not senator and by the way that senator the mormon guy is mitt romney not some mormon governor now sadly what we showed you that's just from a couple hours today because every time that joe actually leaves the basement bunker and stays out past 10 a.m well disaster ensues here's a quick reminder  tomorrow's superstar tuesday and i want to thank you all i tell you what i'm rushing ahead aren't i we hold these truths to be self-evident all men and women created by the go you know the you know the thing if you agree with me go to joe 303 we choose truth over facts play the radio make sure the television excuse me make sure you have the record player on at night the the phone make sure the kids hear words poor kids are just as bright and just as tall as white kids donald trump does pose an excellent strength to this it's not hypothetic this is pretty serious by the way these are way beyond an occasional campaign gap and i am beginning well i'm more than a little worried that this man could represent a clear and present danger to this country he's obviously not capable of leading he's been hiding the entire campaign and the corrupt media mob is covering for him joe wants to be the president of the united states of america that would be the toughest job in the world and at times joe doesn't seem to remember that he's even running for president or what state he's in or what day of the week it is does anyone really believe that if elected that joe biden will actually be in control of anything what kind of country we're going to be four more years of george georgia he is going to find ourselves in a position where if trump gets elected uh we're going to be uh we're going to be in a different world brock and i think it's a right for people that bad and kept care folks we got a lot of work to do i don't really need you to get me elected i need you once i'm elected i'll lead an effective strategy to mobilize true and international depression come on we know  that is something that is something i don't know you know what our country is great we have such great potential you can't do that you can we want to be nice you know the good news he's not a nice guy so i don't feel bad i don't feel bad at all one of the biggest issues for michigan in this election is the subject of refugees with this weather you don't have to worry about it they'll never come they're never coming you said a mirror that said i'm going back this is terrible it's freezing on me i want to go back immediately to syria uh syria syria never looks so good to protect our national security i suspended the entry of refugees from foreign nations compromised by terrorism you know that if it's okay with you i'm going to do that and you see what you see what's happening in france you see that message going on over there called the president with condolences but they're having a big problem biden has pledged with bernie the manifesto 700 increase they've agreed to this in refugees from the most dangerous terror spots in the world syria somalia yemen the biden plan will turn michigan minnesota and many other midwest great states into refugee camps which i'm sure you're thrilled about i'm sure you're thrilled about he's also vowed to terminate uh all of the different elements of uh look we have some you know we have some very strong bands so very very strong bands and he wants to terminate i got a travel ban that was tough stuff to get it and it was not easy but he wants to terminate the travel ban and we have a travel ban that works when we have people that hate us when we have countries that hate us they come out of regions that are a disaster we don't want them in our country we don't want them but it would have allowed what they want they want to allow virtually unlimited immigration into our country they want to allow virtually unlimited access into our country they want to health care education i mean the whole thing is crazy it's just crazy there's no way you're putting that guy in i don't believe it there's no way the people of michigan are too smart and we've come too far together this place this place was a mess this place was a mess four years ago and frankly if your governor opened up your state  which he has to do well biden you know biden's all about lockdowns he loves he loves a lockdown well she's tough on everybody but her husband he can do whatever he wants i'm not just running against joe biden i'm running against the left-wing mob the left-wing media big tech giants i'm running against the rhinos they're probably the worst of all and i'm running against the swamp the swamp is very deep and very vicious and they are not happy with the job we've done and by the way i don't know if you've been watching what's going on with the election and this isn't even polls anymore this is like fact these are people going out and voting we're doing very very well we're leading all over the place you know we're supposed to be leading after the big the great red wave is going to come over the next little while it's coming it's building it's going to be a wave like i think and this is far beyond the last one this is going to be a wave like nobody's ever seen before tuesday did you vote tuesday right tuesday tuesday super tuesday we'll call it right tuesday's going to be beautiful great red wave but we're leading even before we get there you know we're supposed to like they have all these crazy ballots billions and millions of ballots well we're leading a lot of places before we're supposed to be way down and then we catch up and we win we nip them like a racehorse right but we're leading before we get to the race we have no they're very worried and they're very worried they said the black community the hispanic community what's going on is voting for trump what's going on they don't get it what's going on they don't get it they still don't get it people cannot stand the censorship from the media and big tech either it's one of the reasons we're doing well because they understand they no longer feel they're getting the truth from the media it's a big factor they've lost confidence in the media they have no confidence in big tech and they're tired very tired of canceled culture they're tired of being told what to think and what to do and i'll tell you it's having a big impact on this race people get it people are smart the backlash against this censorship is driving more and more people to support our campaign who would have thought this was going to happen this took place two weeks ago when they wouldn't look at uh where's hunter right where there he is where's hunter now two weeks ago when they wouldn't look at where's hunter and they have because we officially made his first name where right because everyone's constantly that is called the laptop from hell and they didn't want to look at it they want nothing to do with it no matter what they do look the greatest crime political crime ever this country was spying on our campaign and they got caught right  that was the greatest crime and let's see what happens let's see what happens but this is something that's really big and they don't even want to talk about it they don't want to write about it they don't want to talk about it but you know what the people understand and you get to see it you have a small handful of young arrogant obnoxious also brilliant young people they're worth a lot of money silicon valley ceos and they're trying to take over our worlds not going to happen hey let's do this they said to me the first election they said sir you can't fight big tech and you can't fight the media and then we won and i said oh really yeah i said now they say it again you cannot fight big tack and you cannot fight the media i want to win again if for no other reason but for no other reason but you can defeat him if you have the right ideas the right policy if you have the right thoughts and you have people that are smart and they don't go for fake news because it's fake news i've been calling it one of the great terms i you know i hope they give me credit for fake news that was a great time now i call it corrupt news because it's gone beyond fake it's totally corrupt but vote on november 3rd you vote we're going to have an election and you know i never thought i'd say because what we did was incredible four years ago this is more important this is going to be the most this could be the most important election in the history of our country because if that side gets in those maniacs aoc plus three ilhan omar ilhan omar they're going to put they're going to put ilhan omar in charge of immigration she will be in charge of immigration uh if these people their maniacs who don't like our country you know do you think illian omar that's one of the reasons we're going to win minnesota because of illinois how the hell does she get elected i guess she's got a little group of people didn't you see harvest i heard she ballot harvested didn't she so where is our justice department she she ballot everybody's telling me stories have a great writer in minnesota and he writes stories about her volumes and nothing ever happens to her ilhan omar she's harvesting ballots it's illegal right they have a story so where the hell why aren't they looking at her if i did that they'd be looking at me they'd be looking at anybody here to disgrace honestly it's a disgrace and arc right asc but didn't she steal two million dollars out of her campaign didn't didn't aoc steal two million dollars out of her campaign so why aren't they looking at her why aren't they looking at her justice department the justice department they should be looking at she stole two million dollars out of her campaign arc plus three right it's unbelievable this election is a choice between the biden depression because you will have a depression he's gonna raise your taxes he's gonna put regulations back in all of those plants that moved in are going to close up and say we're going back to japan these people are crazy right or you can have the greatest economic boom in the history of our country it's a choice between a deadly biden lockdown he wants to lock it down and a safe vaccine and you do it without the vaccine too but the vaccine's going to make it quicker it's coming in a matter of weeks it's going to be distributed immediately we're going to start with the seniors but it's going to go very very quickly very very quickly it's going to be really fantastic it's going to be i think you'll see something that's going to be absolutely amazing and thanks to our groundbreaking therapies here i am therapy no it's true i don't know if it had any impact but i sure as hell felt good the next morning i like to say no it's because i'm in perfect physical health i'm a perfect phy
give that right to me and i gladly stand up next to you and defend her still today  next to you and defend her still today  ah thank you very much thank you thank you fayetteville and north carolina thank you very much  tomorrow we are going to win this state and we are going to win four more years in our great white house with your vote we will continue to cut your taxes cut regulations support our great police support our fantastic military care for our veterans protect your second amendment defend religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that wonderful phrase made in the usa next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country under my leadership our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded 33.1 just announced last week  we created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months it's a a number that we never even thought possible nobody did nobody thought it was possible and we're going to now even do better than that it's going very rapidly well foreign nations are in a free fall you see what's going on with so many nations and europe unfortunately i say that with sadness we are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world a recent gallup poll found that 56 of americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago under obama and biden you got to remember that so you got to remember that kind of thing they didn't do a good job in fact if they did i wouldn't have run if they did i wouldn't be here right now they did a bad job and obama he went out yesterday with biden they got like 14 people they didn't have too many they didn't have too good a crowd and we have five of these today five we have some big ones thank you thank you thank you very much  thank you thank you very much thank you and i love you too and i appreciate that we appreciate it i was i was thinking coming in because i watch these fake polls everyone no matter if if we're up by 10 if we know we're gonna win easily he's down by one point he's down by one uh i just watched this fake stuff and i was saying to myself you know we've been under a phony fake hoax investigation for three years nothing but bad and really corrupt publicity from these people and i i say i wonder what the difference would have been had it been legit right had it been legit and it turned out to be just the opposite they were the ones that committed the crimes not us but i wonder what it would have been i could probably would have been a little bit easier but you know the good news we're going to win anyway we're going to shove it look at the wind anyway i wonder what it would have been i wonder what it would have been if all of the nonsense wasn't brought up thank you very much thank you very much looking tremendous in florida so of course they don't mention that you know it's florida we are looking good we're really looking good all over in the real polls not the fox polls those fox polls somebody in fox doesn't like me very much i can tell you they are the phoniest pulse and they were they were almost as bad uh four years ago actually there were worse but you get some of these pollsters uh they work magic and the amazing thing is and they they hang on to their jobs they do horribly look at what they did last i had nine states and i had to win them all and they said i was going to lose all nine this is four years ago i was going to lose all nine it's going to be a very short evening for donald trump and the poll said decisively i was going to lose all nine and that was the day before and i won all nine i want no i won or i wouldn't be here right now now i won all nine and said we're gonna lose all nine and it was quite depressing as i turned on the television let's see how we did he won florida he won south carolina helper thank you and then they said they're getting rid of the guy like at fox i heard they were getting rid of that pulse turn they kept them and they have others they kept and you wonder what kind of a business that is you wonder what guy we have a case where in wisconsin i have we're one up and i left there a couple of days ago we had a rally you wouldn't believe it packed just packed just like last night like here but like last night this was a section you know i wanted to come this is considered a small beautiful cute little wonderful section and they asked me and i said i want to be there no and every vote counts it's very important we had something last night in miami you would not have believed it i don't know who saw it on television i don't know but you you look at some of these uh results in wisconsin so you know whether i'm up one or down one it's right in that thing i think we're going to win wisconsin because we have a lot of people that say uh we don't want to talk to you and then they go vote for trump right you know the hidden voter or whatever they call them somebody said they're the shy voters my people are not shy but in wisconsin so they said abc news which is in my opinion corrupt but they're all corrupt abc news washington post which is basically a uh lobbyist as far as i'm concerned for amazon it's just a lobbyist so they didn't say like he's two down three down four down a fake poll they said trump is 17 points down in wisconsin now the real number i mean you know i could lose it i could win it i think it's you know i don't know how i'm not i did a lot of good things for wisconsin but you know let's say it's even and i call up a great pollster john i said john let me ask you a question i think we're one up in wisconsin but abc washington post they did the same thing four years ago if you remember that very close to the election they said we're down 12. and then we won right but we were down 12. and it's disheartening it's called suppression what it does is it suppresses people they say well listen we love the president but if he can't win so abc but they did it four years ago and we complained bitterly with a very good lawyer i had very good lawyers in those days we complained very bitterly and they changed it right before the election i think it was one right we're down one they took it from twelve to one and it's like about 15 seconds and i realized i said this is a phony business but now they come down and it says 17 down in wisconsin 17. so i called john john mclaughlin he's he's like the dean he's a great guy and he's been very good with me i mean he said we're going to win four years ago he said he said we're going to win easily this one he's a he's probably the biggest and the best i said john let me ask you a question abc washington post came out with a poll it said i was 17 down i'm not 17 down i might be one down or i might be too up but i'm not 17 down what's going on why don't they make it at least because they have to live after that they have to do other events another why don't they make it three or four or two or five or something right he said they can't do that because they want you to lose and if you're two or three or four everyone's going to go vote they want to make sure that your people don't vote and when you're 17 down people say i just can't waste my time i'm not going to stand online and i said isn't that sick and he said he knows some of the people and they're very smart they're very brilliant they're smart people he said but if they made it five down or four down or six down even so they make it something that's so bad 17 down i said isn't that a shame i want to tell that story do you mind you said i don't care that's the way it is so it's crooked stuff the fox polls are horrible every time i have a fox poll it's horrible i mean i like some of the things on fox certainly sean and laura and tucker's been great lately and fox and friends in the morning is great right we go through them we have we have some i find harris to be great harris faulkner to be really good she's been very good over a period of time the great lou dobbs he's been fantastic right right janine how do you like janine and you know look we have some uh we have some great people that support us jesse has been great people has been great and i don't want to mention you know there are a lot of people look we have a lot but it's 90 negative everything you know everything it's that but so think of that so i said 17. and he gave me an answer i just thought it was so incredible i said i got to tell that answer so i hope i haven't bored you but i thought it was interesting i thought it was it just to me it was interesting and and you know i have like uh five of these to do today so let's get going and i appreciate you being here we had some we had some monsters last night we had some little rough weather it wasn't like this we had uh in michigan we had a slightly cold day with the wind blowing at 40 miles an hour in my face and you're lucky you have a president that doesn't need a teleprompter i was able thank you good memory i would have been in big trouble there was no way you could hold paper there was no way you could do where you were just and my guys set it up where the wind was right smack in my face and i was looking at that flag from the play and i said oh no here we go again but actually the flag must be a very high quality silk because it's not that windy but yesterday it was not that was not an easy day we had some very cold stops at biden and harris kamala kamala you want her you want her as your first woman president i don't think so and the radical left gain power they will collapse our economy and send our nation into a depression biden will raise your taxes four trillion dollars massively increase your regulations close down your factories send your jobs overseas that's what he's been doing all his life him and his group destroy the suburbs dissolve your borders terminate religious liberty outlaw private health insurance 180 million people have great health insurance shred your second amendment confiscate your guns and indoctrinate your children with anti-american lies biden has vowed to abolish the american oil and natural gas industries and ban fracking he said it for a year and a half he said it then all of a sudden he goes to pennsylvania no i never said that and the fake news doesn't do anything about it barton's energy ban will send every state into crushing poverty from north carolina to michigan to pennsylvania as long as i'm president we will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas on earth and we will remain energy independent  sleepy joe biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs opening your borders and sacrificing american blood and treasure in endless foreign wars in countries that most of you have never even heard of he was a cheerleader for naftan they're all coming home don't worry about it i said it  he was a cheerleader for nafta and china's entry into the world trade organization north carolina lost 50 percent of all manufacturing jobs after those biden betrayals and now he says oh i'm going to he's trying to follow my policy he's trying to follow my policy he's not going to view my policy he's been doing this for 47 years plus and for eight years as vice president which was only three and a half years ago joe biden is a corrupt politician who raked in millions from china while giving them your jobs  he's a corrupt he's a corrupt politician you see it now they say the laptop shift watermelon head shift that laptop was produced by russia here we go again russia russia russia here we go again can you imagine what they must think of and these people are crazy now i was it was produced by where's hunter that's right it was produced by ayaka these guys are really think of it now schiff knows he's uh you know psycho in many ways but he knows it's a total con game i had to put up with it for three years and it affects it you know when you see nothing but negative television every night every night every night and then they find totally no collusion after wasting 48 million dollars 18 people think of it and then it's no collusion but then you have to run but you've had three years of horrible publicity and they did it i mean they did it they were the criminals hillary was a criminal she deleted her emails people go to jail for that these are criminals these are criminals and say it anyway you want to do it but we took the brunt that we caught him spying on my campaign and trying to overthrow a duly elected president of the united states so i go and that was before i even knew i mean that was while i was while i was running i didn't even know i'd hear these things sir uh this is before i got elected guys would come up to me every once in a while sir do you have anything to do with russia i said no what do you ask oh i was just curious because it was like this thing floating around then they come up again sir are you sure you don't have anything to do with russia i said it has nothing to do with russia what the hell are you talking about and you know you hear it four or five times then you get into office and they come up with this scheme and this this plot there's a plot to overthrow the government to the united states and then we have people that just don't act fast i mean it's just unbelievable we have so much we have so much information we have so much we have the whole thing and obama was involved and biden was involved they were involved but it's let's let's see what happens people should move more quickly in 2016 north carolina voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting america first and if i don't sound like a typical washington politician it's because i'm not a politician if i don't always play by the rules of the washington establishment it's because i was elected to fight for you and i fight harder than any president has ever fought for his people thank you thank you thank you thank you  get out and vote that's all i ask just take a little time and vote we got to win this state i think we win this state we win pennsylvania we're going to win florida we win pennsylvania and you we're going to win the whole thing they'll win the whole thing and we'll send them a signal like they've never seen before this has not happened to them big tech is so powerful you can't beat big tech they're saying this and i see it on twitter trending trending trend right it's not trending they put the most boring thing only it was anything bad about me number one in the world on trend right boring stuff i mean like stuff as opposed to affairs scandals that they don't even put that stuff up it's always trump two three four five items it's a fix it's a fix this is a smart guy we have his name everybody knows who he is and i'm not talking about the primary i'm talking about people that work they take stuff out of my head let's see this is bad about trump let's make it worse okay we'll make it worse okay number one trend in the whole world no that's not stuff that trends but these are phony guys they fix the elections and you know what they should be subject to campaign violations because it's they're uh they're in arm of the democrat national committee they work together they work on messaging together the democrats the fake news media they're the worst the fact that they're fake people and if i've done one thing it's to expose the dishonesty in the media and not everybody but a big vast majority a vast majority not everybody look at us we catch hunter and joe cheating we catch them stealing millions of dollars they refuse to write a story could you imagine if i got three and a half million dollars from the mayor of moscow's wife could you imagine somebody gave me three and a half million bucks somebody gave me 20 i got they impeached me because i made a perfect phone call to the head of ukraine i never met the gentleman congratulations on your win if you see anything corrupt please call the attorney general of the united states and we have a corruption agreement with them because it's been a very corrupt country i actually have an obligation now of course they impeached before they found out before i decided to release the phone call isn't it lucky that i had that call transcribed can you imagine now can you imagine now they couldn't do they didn't know what to do crazy nancy said this is an impeachable she said you're right they said you're right but let's go through with it anyway maybe we'll get lucky can you no this is what because she didn't know about the call when she read the call she said he didn't do anything wrong how did you get me into this you shifty shift how did you do it jerry nadler i've been fighting this guy for 25 years on the east side of manhattan the west side of manhattan jerry nadler he's a beauty isn't he how did he get me into this well let's just keep going forward it's a disgrace and we won i will say this for the republicans 197 or 697 to nothing we won and in the senate 52 and a half to one half we lost a half of it i wonder who that could have been but sleepy joe biden is bought and paid for by china he's got hey they gave the son a billion and a half dollars to manage that means he's going to make millions of dollars a year he doesn't know anything about investment didn't know anything at all about energy got a hundred and eighty three thousand dollars a month on energy think of that think of that hundred and eighty three thousand dollars i called a friend of mine on wall street is this a normal fee he said no maybe the most abnormal fear i've ever seen in my whole life i've been doing this for 25 years he's the biggest guy but they're bought and paid for they got the money and then they were going for the big one in china they wrote a letter to a very big powerful man within the communist party and where's hunter s for 10 million dollars a year as he was going to recommend he was going to talk you're gonna see here's a guy didn't have a job got thrown out of the navy he got thrown out of the navy he didn't have a job biden becomes vice president and this kid is like a vacuum cleaner going all over the world following his father picking up the scraps no he's following his dad picking up scraps and then you find the note where the big man gets 10 the big man's joe bye the big man gets 10 then in one case they said 50 right that's more likely because he wouldn't do it for 10. he'd want because these people are all hangers on losers but uh that's the story and it's in a laptop and now they say the laptop was made by russia therefore it has no credibility can you no no can you believe this all right and so the news there's not outside of the new york post which really i hold in high esteem they have done they're like a hero paper and they endorsed me i got a nice endorsement from did you see from pennsylvania yesterday right pittsburgh pittsburgh gazette that was nice once i got through that first paragraph it was phenomenal actually they said we don't love his personality we don't love his tough demeanor but i have to be tough look i've been under investigation from before i ever became president i have to be tough if i was soft i wouldn't be here right now and they don't want to say that i was under a fake investigation by a lot of fake people bob mueller and his crew the whole thing was a fake scam that should have never been started and they knew the answer on the first day but it took him two and a half years to put it down no collusion but they knew the answer the first day so i was under investigation for the first two and a half years right think of that and then they say he's tough but i'll take it anyway i'll take their endorsement anyway because once you get over the first paragraph or two it says all of the things we've done which are incredible which are incredible and now we'll have a chance to do it without the cloud because i had a cloud hanging over my head whether we like it or not and then they say he was tough he fought too hard he was somewhat crude he was very very nasty his twitter now you know what if i didn't have social media i wouldn't be here it was the only way i could defend myself so it's one of those things but i just wonder i was thinking i asked the people on the way up we have great people such loyal great people including a man that comes from an area not too far from here is a good friend of these women who've been here this is number 64 time for these incredible beautiful i think rich women and their husbands are in here someplace but they had their husbands they were at the one last night that was a big deal wasn't it but uh this is number 64 i would say right 65 oh there's two more they come from north carolina but we have mark meadows comes from north carolina and he has been fantastic he's done a great job he's done a great job where is he he's probably working you know he's bum bum bum with a phone it's got two phones instead of one and he's not gonna break it up with a hammer like hillary did he's gonna it's gonna throw it away he'll come down watch he's done a fantastic job and he is and he loves this state he loves north carolina and i specifically said i want somebody from north carolina and give me meadows now i knew three years ago i said we got to get meadows in here big tech big media big donors and powerful special interests are desperate for sleepy jail to win they want him to win i'll tell you who wants them to win china they will own our country because they own him they control him and they know he will always be there to do their bidding he'll always be there he's a corrupt he's a corrupt politician i don't care i'll say and i say it everybody knows it's true can you imagine big tech refuses to put anything in they took the new york post down for two weeks because they they won't let anyone write if you put out a little tweet and say that biden is corrupt they will knock out your whole account nobody's ever seen anything like this and you notice it is outside of what i say it is indeed fading away because you can't have a scandal if nobody writes about it so we have the fake news not writing about it and you have the big tech not right so so how can you have a scandal nobody's talking about it nobody's allowed to talk it's called suppression we don't have freedom of the press we don't have probably haven't had it for a long time but we don't have you know they say freedom of the press the american way we don't have we have suppression by the press that's what it is what beautiful words i should have done the speech this way would have been much more interesting or whatever no but seriously we have suppression by the press this is not freedom this is the act it really is it's the exact opposite of freedom of the press you know if you think about it every corrupt force in american life that is responsible for cruel betrayals that hurt our family and you know all of the people that we love they're supported by biden and they donate about you know i could have been a much bigger fundraiser than him but i didn't want to call every head of a wall street firm every head of the oil companies that we've made rich anyway i did a great job we're energy independent that's not so bad first time the failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars they support sleepy joe biden because they get anything they want and he took in 300 million dollars last month you think he made any deals no i don't think so the career politicians that offshored your industries and decimated your factories they support sleepy joe the open borders lobbyists that killed our fellow citizens with illegal drugs gangs and crimes the people that wanted to stop the wall even though it knew it works almost finished by the way we finished very soon but the people that wanted to stop it even the though they knew full well it worked remember they said no no we don't want a wall walls are obsolete we want drones drones okay good drones flying to watch the people pour into our country they want drones let's have drones the far left democrats that ruined our public schools depleted our inner cities defunded our police and demeaned your sacred faith and values they support sleepy joe biden you can't even go to your churches you can't even go to your church and your governor of north carolina you got to open up your state  you got to get your governor i hope you're going to vote for dan who's good but you got to get your state open don't worry about it on november 4th they'll announce your state is opening on november 4th uh north carolina will be opened on november 4. the anti right after the election the entire because they want us to look bad they don't care about people they want us to look bad they want to try and steal an election the anti-american radicals defaming our noble history our heritage our heroes they support sleepy joe antifa and the riders and looters and marxists and left-wing extremists they all support joe biden they always like to blame it on the right you haven't noticed these were right-wing and uh it's very rare it's where it's you get bad on every side but they always like to blame the right it always starts off with the right the right this election comes down to a simple choice do you want to be ruled by the arrogant corrupt ruthless and selfless political class or do you want to be governed by the american people themselves do you want to be represented by a career politician who hates you or by an outsider who will defend you like you have never been defended before i didn't need this job i had a very nice laugh but i love what we're doing for our country nobody's done so much nobody no administration and you know i never even had a challenge on this from the fake news you know normally if you say something slightly off they make a big deal no administration president has done more in the first three and a half years than we have our military we rebuilt our tax cut our regulation cuts  space force just a thing like space was i never even talked about space force right during the campaign i did more than i actually talked about during the campaign  thank you thank you very much  i thought this was a small little cute area you know this was this small little cute area when i came in i'm watching fox and a gentleman and anchor said they have a small crowd of about 2 000 2 500. i knew i knew you know it's it's an incredible thing this is a lot more than that there's a lot of people there's a lot more than we but i wanted to be here because it's an important mistake i mean my granddaughter is named carolina do you know that and we'll give south carolina some credit too you know they've been with us is that okay i want to get your permission no we'll give south carolina south carolina is they're great people too a vote for biden is a vote to hand the keys to government over to people who despise you and who want to rob your children of their american dream that's what they're doing a vote for biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalists communists socialists the wealthy liberal hypocrites who want to silence censor cancel and punish you if you want your children to be safe and remember this against this i'll put it very simply against the second amendment right if you're pro-life you can forget about it you know that right tremendous support we have we have did you see these people in california they have lines of hundreds of miles of cars and tractors and iowa and boats five or six thousand boats in lakes and oceans with the flags if you want your values to be respected if you want to be treated with honor and dignity and respect then i am asking for you to go out tomorrow or sooner but i don't know you tend to like to vote on election day right we all do and vote is going to be the most important election in my opinion in the history of our country i never thought i was going to say it if you would have told me i was going to say that four years ago i would have said you're crazy but uh it's the most important because i've always said we will never be a socialist nation and that's what they're trying  well and remember what i said four years ago is that i am your voice and we will make america great again and that's what we're doing and and if we didn't get hit by the china plague now we're building it up again and we're doing it at record clip and record numbers and at a much faster pace than any other country in the world but we got hit by the plague from china and we will never forget it with god as my witness i will never let you down for the last four years the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me because they know i don't answer to them i answer to you together we will defeat the corrupt establishment we will dethrone the failed political class and we will drain the washington swamp and we will save the american dream this election is also a choice between a deadly biden lockdown he wants to have you locked down i don't even know if he knows i'm into beyond they ask him a question i don't i don't think he has a clue you can vote whoever you want but i don't think he has a clue you know it the media knows it the media laughs behind his back and then they say he did brilliantly today no he didn't do brilliantly he can't do he didn't do brilliantly in his prime and he's not in his prime anymore or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic and we're doing very well with the vaccines they'll be distributed very soon we will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks it will quickly eradicate the virus and wipe out the china plague once and for all joe biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn america into a prison state looking again that's more kamala you know remember when they said this is the harris biden administration right i never did that with mike and you know what mike pence never came to you he said do you mind if i put my name first every once in a while no because and by the way he's been a great vice president some people say it was a perfect combination it was he's a great guy he loves he's going to be in your state in a little while locking you in your home while letting far left rioters roam free the biden lockdown will mean no school no graduations no weddings no thanksgiving no easter no christmas no 4th of july and no future for america's youth other than that it's fine i think it's just if you want a vaccine to kill the virus a job to support your family and freedom to live your life then you go and cast your ballot for president trump and if you remember the catastrophe joe biden who's telling us how to run things right this guy never ran a thing successfully he was said horrible things about him when he was in the administration obama didn't even want to endorse him he wouldn't endorse him even after he won obama said this is no way how long did it take him after he won it took forever obama couldn't believe it i don't think obama is much better you want to know the truth joe biden personally ran the swine flu right the swine flu h1n1 which he can never remember he never says it he says it goes n1h1 i said don't he failed horribly and he was a laughingstock all over washington they were laughing at him and his own chief of staff said he was absolutely terrible they had a terrible they did a terrible job now he's telling us how to do it i should have closed earlier there's only one problem he's on record all over the place knocking me two and a half months later for closing too soon and closing it all he said don't close he's xenophobic you know xenophobic i didn't like people from china is what he's saying it's so wrong i think they're incredible people i do i think they're incredible people but they he said xenophobic and then he runs for off he says he should have closed earlier and you know what the press never covers that they just you can't get the only time i get it covered is if i happen to be on live television i'll say it again and again and when i do say it they try and turn it off let's go to a commercial break right now i think i know what's coming these are really bad people secretary of defense robert gates said that biden has been wrong on every actually or nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades he had no respect for him whatsoever i'm sure he endorsed him because he's probably looking for something like everybody else but i don't think any of them are going to get anything because i think we'
